DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report meets the relevant rules of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration.
A resolution to ratify this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors who meet regularly to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will initially serve for a period of three years, and will stand for annual re-election.
All Directors have served since incorporation of the Company.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
Directors appointments are reviewed during the annual board evaluation.
The determination of the Directors fees is a matter dealt with by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Board.
The Board has not sought the advice or services by any outside person in respect of its consideration of the Directors remuneration, although the Directors will review the fees paid to the boards of directors of similar investment companies.
The Companys policy is for the Directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears.
No Director has any entitlement to a pension, and the Company has not awarded any share options or long-term performance incentives to any of the Directors.
No element of the Directors remuneration is performance related.
The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the Directors and should be sufficient to enable high calibre candidates to be recruited.
The policy is for the Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee to be paid a higher fee than the other Directors in recognition of their more onerous roles and more time spent.
The Companys Articles of Incorporation limit the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 500,000 per annum.
From 1 April 2012, the Directors fees were paid at the following annual rates: the Chairman 35,000: the Chairman of the Audit Committee 30,000: the other Directors 25,000.
Prior to this, the annual rates were: Chairman 30,000: the Chairman of the Audit Committee 25,000: the other Directors 20,000.
Remuneration No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the AIC Code all Directors will be proposed for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 June 2013.
The names and biographies of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed in this document.
All of the independent Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
The Company paid the following fees to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012.
$ William Frewen Chairman 53,669 Richard Battey Audit Committee Chairman 46,002 Sandra Platts 38,335 Total 138,006 No other remuneration or compensation was paid or payable by the Company during the year to any of the Directors, other than travel expenses of $4,412.
For and on behalf of the Board Sandra Platts Director 12 April 2013 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2012 and period ended 31 December 2011 25
