GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:45 Page 320 Directors remuneration report Letter from Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Review of Group Performance A number of significant milestones were reached during the year as part There is no doubt that 2012 has been another challenging year and of the Groups turnaround plan including: events such as attempts to manipulate LIBOR and the IT incident have had a direct impact on the Group, both from a financial and a reputational x Repayment of the liquidity support to UK Government in May 2012: point of view.
The Board has acknowledged the serious shortcomings in systems and controls which were uncovered as part of the investigations x The successful flotation of more than one third of our stake in Direct into LIBOR and deeply regrets the lack of integrity shown by a small Line Insurance Group plc in difficult market conditions: and group of employees.
x The exit from the Asset Protection Scheme in October 2012.
I would like to assure you that the Committee has spent a great deal of time challenging and taking action in response to past events and Key financial achievements for 2012 were: considering how remuneration can help to drive appropriate behaviours at RBS in future.
Individuals found culpable in relation to LIBOR have left x Core Operating Profit of 6.3 billion, which represents a strong the Group with no annual incentive awards for 2012 and full clawback of performance: outstanding awards.
The Committee has also taken action across the Group, particularly in the Markets division, to account for the reputational x Further significant progress in removing Non-Core assets, a key part damage of these events.
in managing down legacy issues.
Non-Core third party assets are down 36 billion in 2012 to 57 billion, representing 92% progress Against this backdrop, we should not lose sight of the fact that the vast towards the 2013 target of c. 40 billion: majority of employees at RBS continue to do their jobs well and are not responsible for the events that have made headlines.
Around one third of x Capital, funding and liquidity positions remain robust with key our employees joined after the financial crisis.
During the IT incident, performance indicators KPIs on short-term wholesale funding, there was a very positive illustration of the loyalty and determination of liquidity portfolio, leverage ratio, Core Tier 1 capital ratio and staff to support customers during a difficult and regrettable period.
It is loan:deposit ratio all exceeding or in line with medium-term targets: vital that we retain and motivate good people as the foundation upon which we will generate a valuable business for shareholders and a bank x Core Return on Equity ROE was 10%, with Retail & Commercial that society can respect.
ROE at 10% or 14% excluding Ulster Bank.
The ROE for Markets was 10% in challenging market conditions: Considerable progress has been made over the past four years and the Committee remains focused on delivering remuneration structures that x Group expenses were 6% lower than in 2011 with staff costs down complement our goal of rebuilding a safer and more sustainable 6%: and business, capable of serving customers and shareholders well in the long term.
It is a difficult but important balance that we are trying to achieve, x Impairment losses totalled 5.3 billion, down 29% from 2011. reducing overall spend on pay and increasing accountability whilst nurturing the business from which future profits can flow.
We have sought As well as financial achievements, the Committee takes into account to strike this balance fairly, whilst demonstrating our ongoing commitment performance against a broader range of objectives, including support to to restraint, reflecting the nature of our ownership.
For example, in 2012 the Group accounted for 36% of all Small and Medium Enterprises SME lending, compared with its overall I have set out below a summary of how the Committee approached the customer market share of 24%.
The Group advanced 16 billion of UK year: how performance has been assessed: the decisions that have been home loans, including 3 billion to first time buyers.
Using the Bank of reached on pay for 2012 and how past mistakes have been taken into Englands Funding for Lending Scheme the Group has offered lower account: and changes that we are making to ensure a fair and interest rates and waived arrangement fees on certain SME loans, transparent remuneration policy.
benefiting over 11,000 SMEs in the second half of 2012.
