ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 48 Summary remuneration report Letter from Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Review of Group Performance A number of significant milestones were reached during the year as part There is no doubt that 2012 has been another challenging year and of the Groups turnaround plan including: events such as attempts to manipulate LIBOR and the IT incident have had a direct impact on the Group, both from a financial and a reputational x Repayment of the liquidity support to UK Government in May 2012: point of view.
The Board has acknowledged the serious shortcomings in systems and controls which were uncovered as part of the investigations x The successful flotation of more than one third of our stake in Direct into LIBOR and deeply regrets the lack of integrity shown by a small Line Insurance Group plc in difficult market conditions: and group of employees.
x The exit from the Asset Protection Scheme in October 2012.
I would like to assure you that the Committee has spent a great deal of time challenging and taking action in response to past events and Key financial achievements for 2012 were: considering how remuneration can help to drive appropriate behaviours at RBS in future.
Individuals found culpable in relation to LIBOR have left x Core Operating Profit of 6.3 billion, which represents a strong the Group with no annual incentive awards for 2012 and full clawback of performance: outstanding awards.
The Committee has also taken action across the Group, particularly in the Markets division, to account for the reputational x Further significant progress in removing Non-Core assets, a key part damage of these events.
in managing down legacy issues.
Non-Core third party assets are down 36 billion in 2012 to 57 billion, representing 92% progress Against this backdrop, we should not lose sight of the fact that the vast towards the 2013 target of c. 40 billion: majority of employees at RBS continue to do their jobs well and are not responsible for the events that have made headlines.
Around one third of x Capital, funding and liquidity positions remain robust with key our employees joined after the financial crisis.
During the IT incident, performance indicators KPIs on short-term wholesale funding, there was a very positive illustration of the loyalty and determination of liquidity portfolio, leverage ratio, Core Tier 1 capital ratio and staff to support customers during a difficult and regrettable period.
It is loan:deposit ratio all exceeding or in line with medium-term targets: vital that we retain and motivate good people as the foundation upon which we will generate a valuable business for shareholders and a bank x Core Return on Equity ROE was 10%, with Retail & Commercial that society can respect.
ROE at 10% or 14% excluding Ulster Bank.
The ROE for Markets was 10% in challenging market conditions: Considerable progress has been made over the past four years and the Committee remains focused on delivering remuneration structures that x Group expenses were 6% lower than in 2011 with staff costs down complement our goal of rebuilding a safer and more sustainable business, 6%: and capable of serving customers and shareholders well in the long term.
It is a difficult but important balance that we are trying to achieve, reducing x Impairment losses totalled 5.3 billion, down 29% from 2011. overall spend on pay and increasing accountability whilst nurturing the business from which future profits can flow.
We have sought to strike this As well as financial achievements, the Committee takes into account balance fairly, whilst demonstrating our ongoing commitment to restraint, performance against a broader range of objectives, including support to reflecting the nature of our ownership.
For example, in 2012 the Group accounted for 36% of all Small and Medium Enterprises SME lending, compared with its overall I have set out below a summary of how the Committee approached the customer market share of 24%.
The Group advanced 16 billion of UK year: how performance has been assessed: the decisions that have been home loans, including 3 billion to first time buyers.
Using the Bank of reached on pay for 2012 and how past mistakes have been taken into Englands Funding for Lending Scheme the Group has offered lower account: and changes that we are making to ensure a fair and interest rates and waived arrangement fees on certain SME loans, transparent remuneration policy.
benefiting over 11,000 SMEs in the second half of 2012.
48 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 49 RBS GROUP 2012 Decisions made on pay It is clear that challenges remain in rebuilding the reputation of banks but In addition to financial and non-financial measures, the Committee progress has been made in evolving the culture of RBS.
Our applies a rigorous accountability review process in determining pay remuneration policy underpins this work by encouraging appropriate outcomes.
This framework enables us to claw back awards made in behaviours and adjusting for risk.
Examples of enhancements are as previous years where current or new information would change the follows: decisions made in previous years.
The review considers not only financial losses but also behavioural and reputational issues that have arisen.
x Simplification of sales incentives with a broad move to a balanced scorecard type approach focused on customer service and risk: Whilst the Group made significant progress across a range of measures in 2012, the Committee, in conjunction with the Board, agreed that the x All executives and Code Staff have culture included as part of their reduction to shareholder value and reputational damage caused by 2013 objectives supported by quantitative and qualitative measures: incidents such as the LIBOR settlement should result in a reduction of this years variable pools and the application of clawback.
Further details x Full review of balanced scorecard metrics, supported by of the impact of these incidents on remuneration is set out on page 341 of independent control function review in advance of variable pools the 2012 Report and Accounts.
Some of the key outcomes on pay are as being agreed: follows: x This year, all our employees will be paid salaries at or above the x Total variable compensation has been reduced from 2011 by 14% at Living Wage: and a Group level and 20% for Markets the reductions are 23% and 40% respectively after the application of clawback as further x Shareholding requirements for the executive directors have been evidence of the action that has been taken to bring down overall strengthened and new requirements introduced for senior levels of pay: executives to better align their interests with those of shareholders.
x Variable compensation pre clawback as a percentage of operating We will continue to monitor external developments and, where profit before variable compensation decreased from 28% to 16% for appropriate, refine our remuneration policy, for example in light of the 2012 for the Group and from 25% to 16% for Markets.
Full details requirements of CRD IV.
can be found in Note 3 to the consolidated accounts on pages 379 and 380 of the 2012 Report and Accounts: Enhancements to remuneration governance and reporting In recognition that the Committee considers issues wider than just x Since 2010, total variable compensation for the Group has been remuneration, the name of the Committee was changed to the Group reduced by over 50%: Performance and Remuneration Committee.
This reflects the x Within the context of reduced variable pools, incentive awards Committees broader oversight role to consider performance in the round continue to be targeted towards high performers and, as a in supporting the Groups purpose, vision and values aspirations.
During consequence, 40% of employees eligible for an award will receive 2012, the Committee has worked closely with the Board Risk Committee zero for 2012: and Group Audit Committee, both of which have provided valuable input on key risk and control issues.
x Of those employees who do receive an award for 2012, 68% will receive less than 2,000 in total and 81% will receive less than Changes have been made to this report in line with a number of 5,000: and anticipated government reforms on remuneration reporting.
The Remuneration Governance section covers the activities and decisionx Average salary increases across the Group for 2013 will be less making process of the Committee: the Policy Report covers future than 2%.
remuneration policy: and the Implementation Report demonstrates how pay arrangements have been implemented over the past year.
The CEO, Stephen Hester, will not receive any salary increase in 2013.
In addition, he decided during the year that it would not be appropriate for As in previous years, we have consulted with our major shareholders, him to be considered for any annual incentive award.
Whilst respecting including UKFI, on remuneration matters.
I would like to thank those his decision, I would like to put on record that the Committee believes the shareholders who continue to recognise and support our efforts to reform CEO continues to demonstrate strong performance and leadership.
The remuneration practices at RBS.
In this turnaround period where it has not Committee receives regular encouragement from institutional been possible to pay ordinary dividends to shareholders, this support on shareholders to improve the delivery of market competitive remuneration pay decisions has been an essential part of our restructuring programme.
Enhancements to remuneration policy Finally, I would also like to thank my fellow Committee members for their The Committee continues to recognise the importance of driving cultural expertise and guidance and all those who have supported the Committee change both in terms of pay and in a wider sense.
As Chair, I am actively in its efforts to make fair and appropriate judgements.
involved in a number of initiatives relating to diversity, graduate recruitment and management development and many of these initiatives Penny Hughes have received award-winning recognition.
Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 49 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 50 Summary remuneration report continued Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors for 2013 The remuneration policy for executive directors follows the Group-wide policy applicable to other employees but with greater emphasis on variable performance-related pay.
This is to ensure that delivery of total remuneration to executive directors is more dependent on performance and can only be achieved if specific strategic targets and other measures are met.
The structure of remuneration for executive directors involves greater delivery in shares in order to align further their reward with the long-term interests of shareholders.
A summary is set out below: Changes to policy since last Element of pay Operation Maximum potential Performance metrics and period approved Base salary Reviewed annually and Rate at 1 January 2013: N A A 2% increase to the considered against annual Stephen Hester: 1,200,000 salary of Bruce Van market data and in the context Bruce Van Saun: 750,000 Saun to 765,000 of wider Group increases.
Annual incentive Any annual incentive to be Normal maximum: Balanced scorecard of KPIs measured No change.
200% of base salary over the financial year.
KPIs are: Shares vest in two equal Exceptional maximum: x Strategic progress: tranches on the first and 250% of base salary x Business delivery and financial second anniversary of the date performance: of grant.
x Risk and control: Provision for clawback prior to x Stakeholder management: and vesting.
x People management Additional six month holding period post vesting.
See page 52 for further details Long-term incentive Awards granted over shares Maximum under plan rules is Performance conditions measured over No change.
which vest at the end of a 400% of salary.
three year period subject to performance conditions being 2013 LTIP awards will be Performance measures and relative met.
granted subject to an overall weightings are: cap of 300% of salary at x Core Bank Economic Profit - 25% Provision for clawback prior to grant.
x Total Shareholder Return TSR vesting.
relative to comparator group of Each of the four performance international banks - 25% Additional six month holding elements has the potential to period post vesting.
deliver shares worth 100% of x Balance sheet and risk - 25% salary at grant.
x Strategic scorecard - 25% However, there is an overall x Financial and risk performance cap on vesting equivalent to underpin.
The LTIP measures have been selected The notional value of these in consultation with shareholders.
The awards would be 45% of face objective is to have a balanced range of value, which is 135% of measures that encourage the building of salary.
a safer, stronger and more sustainable business.
See page 53 for further details on the measures.
Benefits including Flexible benefits opportunity as Pension allowance of 35% of N A No change.
Opportunity to sacrifice salary into defined contribution pension scheme.
50 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 51 RBS GROUP 2012 Directors shareholding requirements During 2012, the Committee agreed that it would be appropriate to strengthen the shareholding requirements for executive directors and to introduce new shareholding requirements for members of the Groups Executive Committee.
The target shareholding level for the Group Chief Executive is 250% of salary and 125% of salary for other executive directors and members of the Group Executive Committee, in each case excluding any unvested share awards in the calculation.
A period of five years is allowed in which to build up shareholdings to meet the required levels.
To date, the executive directors have not sold any shares that they have received under the Groups share plans, other than to meet tax liabilities on vesting.
The mix of executive directors remuneration The charts below show the composition of remuneration opportunity for on-target annual performance, with the long-term incentive awards shown at median performance vesting.
Annual incentive payments earned in relation to 2013 performance will be deferred and will vest, subject to satisfactory performance.
The actual value of the long term incentive awards will depend on performance over the period 2013 to 2015 and the share price at the time the awards vest.
Group Chief Executive - Stephen Hester Group Finance Director - Bruce Van Saun 23% 24% 35% 31% Salary Salary 1% 8% Benefits Benefits Pension allowance 8% Pension allowance 8% On-Target Annual Incentive On-Target Annual Incentive deferred into shares deferred into shares Long-term incentive award Long-term incentive award estimated value based on estimated value based on 32% median performance 30% median performance Total Shareholder Return performance The graph below shows the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The TSR for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 for 1 January 2008.
The second graph shows the same performance of the company during 2012.
Implementation of the Groups recovery plan started in January 120 RBS 2009 with the publication of the preliminary 2008 losses.
The FTSE Banks share price reached a closing low point of 10.3p per share 103p 100 FTSE 100 per share on a post share consolidation basis on the news.
80 From January 2009 to 27 February 2013, the day the Groups 2012 results announcement was approved, the Groups share 60 price has risen 237% which compares to 104% and 55% respectively for the FTSE banks index and the FTSE 100 index 40 as a whole.
20 180 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 160 Total Shareholder Return one year 140 RBS shares had a strong start and outperformed the market for the majority of 120 the first half of the year partly due to a continuing reduction in size and fiderisking of non-core helping to re-balance the balance sheet and the announced 100 re-structuring of our investment bank.
The Eurozone economies were in focus 80 throughout the year in terms of concerns over their financial health and stability.
60 Fiscal instability within peripheral Eurozone countries, particularly Spain and 40 RBS Greece, increased investor concerns on UK and European banks and their FTSE Banks exposure to these countries.
This impacted the RBS share price in line with 20 FTSE100 other UK and European peers.
Towards the end of the year sentiment on the 0 Eurozone improved, with RBS shares outperforming the market.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 51 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 52 Summary remuneration report continued Annual incentive awards - performance criteria for 2013 The executive directors annual performance objectives, as set out below, are approved by the Committee.
The risk objectives are reviewed by the Board Risk Committee.
Core objectives Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Strategic progress Revise original Strategic Plan to respond to significant Monitor and improve the Group and divisional strategic changes in the macro environment.
Drive effective design and implementation of revised revised strategy including focus on brand values and fair plan.
Develop strategy for implementation of ring-fencing.
Progress plans towards Government exit.
Business delivery and Lead delivery of overall performance, including measures Ensure statutory, regulatory and management reporting is financial performance relating to ROE, cost management, Core Tier 1 capital compliant with all external and internal standards.
Continue ratio, funding and risk profile, lending, and EU mandated to improve best in class external reporting.
Group Finance Director role to the business through strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting and reporting.
Monitor and control Group budget.
Ensure a robust capital and funding planning framework.
Successful further Direct Line Insurance Group plc selldown and re-plan of EU mandated branch disposals.
Risk and control Delivery of measures relating to wholesale funding Progress on key risk requirements.
Implementation of reliance, liquidity reserves and leverage ratio.
Further effective regulatory changes impacting capital, funding, and progress on risk appetite, risk frameworks and conduct liquidity.
Improve quality of risk and financial data.
Continue risk, in support of the continued culture change across the development of Group Internal Audit function.
Stakeholder management Achievement of customer performance measures.
Continue to develop effective external relationships, Build maintain strong and effective relationships with including investors, rating agencies and regulators.
external stakeholders, including senior leaders in the new UK regulatory framework.
People management Ensure each division function has a people plan.
Embed Lead upgraded team and build positive culture and sense the Groups purpose, vision and values through high of purpose.
Contribute to overall Group management.
Build talent management and Partner colleagues in leading the Groups purpose, vision performance management.
Maintain leadership and and values to support culture change.
employee engagement as measured by the employee survey.
The Committee will determine the actual value of any award by reference to the extent to which executive directors have met the performance targets.
Awards will be paid entirely in shares and will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant.
Clawback provisions will apply prior to the vesting of the shares.
An additional six month holding period will apply post vesting.
52 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 53 RBS GROUP 2012 LTIP awards - performance criteria for awards to be granted in 2013 and Balance Sheet & Risk 25% due to vest in 2016 The Balance Sheet & Risk measures have a particular focus on risk Awards that will be granted to executive directors in 2013 will be subject reduction, the resolution of the Non-Core business and the building of a to four performance categories, each with equal weighting.
These are set sustainable and responsible franchise for the Group.
Strategic Scorecard 25% Core bank economic profit 25% The balanced Strategic Scorecard rewards management for delivering a The Economic Profit measure is focused on the Core bank to ensure that robust basis for future growth in terms of the strength of our franchise, performance reflects enduring earnings for the bank.
Economic Profit, efficiency, reputation, and the engagement of employees.
being a risk-adjusted financial measure, is consistent with the FSA Code Performance measures and also provides a balance between measuring growth and the cost of Non-Core Run-Down capital employed in delivering that growth.
Core bank Economic Profit is Core Tier 1 capital ratio defined as Core bank Operating Profit after Tax less attributed equity Balance Wholesale funding multiplied by the cost of equity, where: Sheet and Risk Liquidity reserves measures Leverage ratio Core bank Operating Profit after Tax is Core Operating Profit taxed at a and targets Loan:deposit ratio standard tax rate.
Earnings volatility Customer franchise Attributed Equity is defined as equity allocated to the Core businesses, Strategic Cost:income ratio in Core bank calculated as a function of the Core businesses risk-weighted asset base.
Scorecard Lending targets measures Sustainability performance Current Cost of Equity is 11.5%, which is subject to review at least and targets Progress in people issues annually.
Both quantitative and qualitative strategic measures are used, including Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will be measures relating to reputation, customer excellence, organisational disclosed retrospectively once the awards vest.
capability and sustainability, given that these will support the long-term goals of the business.
Targets for each measure are set at the start of the Relative Total Shareholder Return 25% performance period and, where applicable, are aligned with the Groups The relative TSR measure provides a direct connection between Strategic Plan targets.
Commentary will be provided on an annual basis executive directors awards and relative performance delivered to in relation to progress against the targets, where these are not shareholders.
The measure compares the Group's performance against a commercially sensitive.
group of comparator banks from the UK and overseas, weighted towards those companies most similar to the Group.
Performance is measured Vesting point Indicative performance over a three year performance period.
Does not meet 0% Over half of objectives not met Partially meets 25% Half of objectives met Relative TSR Comparator Group Weighting Significantly meets 62.5% Two-thirds of objectives met 1 Barclays 200% Fully meets 100% Objectives met or exceeded in all 2 Lloyds Banking Group material respects 3 HSBC 150% Qualified by Group Performance and Remuneration Committee discretion 4 Standard Chartered taking into account changes in circumstances over the performance Bank of America, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit period, the relative importance of the measures, the margin by which Agricole, Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank, JP individual targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant Morgan Chase, National Australia Bank Limited, Royal factors.
50% 5 to 20 Bank of Canada, Santander, Societe Generale, The Toronto-Dominion Bank Group, UBS, Unicredito, Wells Risk underpin and clawback Fargo & Company The Committee will also review financial and operational performance against the Strategic Plan and risk performance prior to agreeing vesting x 20% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the median of the of awards.
In assessing this, the Committee will be advised companies in the comparator group.
independently by the Board Risk Committee.
If the Committee considers that the vesting outcome calibrated in line with the performance x 100% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the upper conditions outlined above does not reflect the Group's underlying quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
financial results or if the Committee considers that the financial results have been achieved with excessive risk, then the terms of the awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting of an award, or to allow the award to lapse in its entirety.
All awards are subject to clawback.
53 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 54 Summary remuneration report continued Service contracts and exit payment policy Except as noted below, in the event of severance where any contractual The company's policy in relation to the duration of contracts with directors notice period is not worked, the employing company may pay a sum to is that executive directors' contracts generally continue until termination the executive in lieu of the notice period.
In the event of situations by either party, subject to the required notice, or until retirement.
The involving breach of the employing company's policies resulting in notice period under the service contracts of executive directors will not dismissal, reduced or no payments may be made to the executive.
Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the executive may be entitled, or the Committee may allow, outstanding In relation to newly recruited executive directors, subject to the prior awards under long-term incentive arrangements to vest, subject to the approval of the Committee, the notice period may be extended beyond rules of the relevant plan.
twelve months if there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of Stephen Hester notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured In the event of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, such that it will automatically reduce to twelve months in due course.
All after giving reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate new service contracts for executive directors are subject to approval by Stephen Hesters contract by giving written notice with immediate effect the Committee.
and without making any payment in lieu of notice and Stephen Hester will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
In the event that Stephen Hester's Those contracts normally include standard clauses covering employment is terminated by the company other than by reason of his remuneration arrangements and discretionary incentive schemes, the personal underperformance or in circumstances where the company is performance review process, the company's normal disciplinary entitled to dismiss without notice, or if he resigns in response to a procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to perform or in fundamental breach of contract by the company, he will be entitled to situations involving actions in breach of the Group's policies and receive a payment in lieu of notice to the value of base salary, annual standards.
incentive and benefits including pension contributions.
If he resigns voluntarily and the company does not require him to work out his notice Any compensation payment made in connection with the departure of an period, Stephen Hester may receive a payment in lieu of notice based on executive director will be subject to approval by the Committee, having salary only i. e. no annual incentive or benefits.
In both cases the regard to the terms of the service contract and the reasons for treatment of any other unvested stock awards will be determined by the termination.
Committee and the Board, having due regard to the circumstances of the departure.
Information regarding the executive directors' service contracts is shown below: Bruce Van Saun Notice period - Notice period - In the event of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, Date of current contract from the company from executive after giving reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate Stephen Hester 4 November 2008 12 months 12 months Bruce Van Sauns contract by giving written notice with immediate effect Bruce Van Saun 8 September 2009 12 months 12 months and without making any payment in lieu of notice and Bruce Van Saun will forfeit any unvested stock awards.
Any payment in lieu of notice that may be made to Bruce Van Saun would be based on salary only i. e. no annual incentive or benefits.
The company has agreed that, provided certain conditions are met, on leaving employment, Bruce Van Saun will not forfeit awards under the rules of the Groups share plans.
54 ARSFS SFS 36 64 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:43 Page 55 RBS GROUP 2012 The table below has been prepared in line with the anticipated reporting requirements proposed by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
The purpose is to reflect the fixed elements of pay that have been earned during the year and, as far as is possible, to value performance related pay where performance has been assessed.
The following tables and explanatory notes on this page detail the remuneration of each director for the year ended 31 December 2012 and have been audited by the company's auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Total remuneration for executive directors Performance related pay Total remuneration Annual Salary Benefits Pension Subtotal incentive 1 LTIP 2 Subtotal 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Stephen Hester 1,200 26 420 1,646 1,646 1,646 Bruce Van Saun 3 750 134 408 1,292 980 980 2,272 2,119 Notes: 1 Stephen Hester waived any annual incentive entitlement for the 2012 performance year.
Bruce Van Saun has been awarded an annual incentive of 980,000 which will be granted as an award entirely in shares in March 2013 and will vest in March 2014 and 2015.
For subsequent reporting years, the shares awarded to Bruce Van Saun will be detailed in the Deferred Awards table see page 340 of the 2012 Report and Accounts.
Further details of the performance assessment of the executive directors in 2012 is outlined on pages 333 and 334 of the 2012 Report and Accounts.
2 The nil value under the LTIP column reflects awards granted under the Medium-term Performance Plan and Executive Share Option Plan in 2009.
The awards did not vest in 2012 as a result of the performance conditions not being met.
3 Bruce Van Saun resigned as a non-executive director of ConvergEx Holdings LLC during 2012 and received a pro rated fee of US$62,500 for 2012.
Mr Van Saun was appointed as a non-executive director of Lloyds of London Franchise Board during 2012 for which he received a pro rated fee of 19,450.
He is also a non-executive director of Direct Line Insurance Group plc, the fees for which are paid direct to the Group and is a non-executive director of Worldpay Ship Midco Limited for which no fees are payable.
Mr Van Saun makes contributions towards his pension through a salary sacrifice arrangement to an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme, which operates on a defined contribution basis.
The total contribution to the defined contribution arrangements amounted to 408,000 in 2012 403,000 in 2011.
The rate of return on his accrued contributions is determined annually by the Committee to reflect a long-term low risk investment return on an unsecured basis.
For 2012 this rate was 6.2% reflecting December 2011 CPI plus 2%.
Other directors' remuneration Salary 2012 2011 fees Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 Chairman Philip Hampton 750 750 750 The level of remuneration for non-executive directors reflects their responsibility and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed regularly.
Board Board Committee 2012 2011 fees fees Total Total 000 000 000 000 Non-executive directors Sandy Crombie 150 150 150 Alison Davis 73 41 114 43 Tony Di Iorio 73 55 128 43 Penny Hughes 150 150 150 Joe MacHale 1 73 60 133 133 Brendan Nelson 150 150 150 Baroness Noakes 73 51 124 43 Art Ryan 2 73 20 93 95 Philip Scott 150 150 150 Former non-executive director John McFarlane 3 18 8 26 103 Notes: 1 Board Committee fee includes membership of the Asset Protection Scheme Senior Oversight Committee.
2 Art Ryan is a non-executive director of RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. for which he received fees of US$131,000 during 2012.
3 Retired from the Board with effect from 31 March 2012.
There have been no payments made for loss of office.
Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 55
