GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 322 Directors remuneration report Remuneration Governance Report of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee Second quarter The role and responsibilities of the Committee x Outcomes of the first quarter accountability reviews: The Committee is responsible for setting the Groups policy on remuneration and overseeing its implementation.
It reviews performance x Review of remuneration proposals for Direct Line Insurance Group and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of the Groups plc on divestment: variable incentive pools and the remuneration arrangements of the executive directors of the Group.
No director is involved in decisions x Presentation from the Wealth division on business and strategic regarding his or her own remuneration.
priorities and people plan: The Committee is also responsible for approving remuneration and x Review of government proposals on Shareholder Voting Rights and severance arrangements for members of the Groups Executive and remuneration aspects of CRD IV: and Management Committees, FSA Code Staff, as well as overseeing arrangements for employees who are In-Scope under the Asset x Update on LTIP performance conditions and vesting outcomes for Protection Scheme APS.
Details of the FSA Remuneration Code can be executive directors 2009 long term incentive awards.
uk and a definition of Code Staff is provided on page 325.
Third quarter x Half year performance reviews for executive directors, Group The terms of reference of the Group Performance and Remuneration Executive and Management Committee members: Committee are available on the Groups website www.
com and these are reviewed at least annually by the Committee and approved by the x Outcomes of the second quarter accountability reviews: Board.
x Formal remuneration strategy session to discuss and agree Summary of the principal activity of the Committee during 2012 remuneration approach and priorities for the forthcoming year: Set out below is a summary of the activity of the Committee on a quarterly basis: x Presentation from Markets and International Banking on business and strategic priorities and people plan: and First quarter x Year end performance reviews and remuneration arrangements for x Approval of remuneration arrangements for Direct Line Insurance members of the Groups Executive and Management Committees Group plc on divestment.
The year end performance reviews included input from the Board Risk Committee on the risk management Fourth quarter performance of Executive and Management Committee members: x Approval of remuneration approach for the most senior and highest paid employees in the Group including executive directors and x Year end performance reviews and remuneration arrangements for Group Executive and Management Committee members : APS in scope employees, Code Staff, and High Earners: x Outcomes of the third quarter accountability reviews: x Approval of Group and Divisional variable pay pools: x Assessed and affirmed accountability review decision making x Approval of the Directors remuneration report: principles: x Outcomes of the annual performance evaluation of the Committee: x 2012 preliminary variable pay pool discussions for Group and Divisions: x Remuneration arrangements for executive directors which included a reduction to the LTIP award level for executive directors: x Content for shareholder consultations undertaken in December 2012 and January 2013: x Introduction of a new accountability review process which informs clawback decisions: and x Review of Committee remit and name: x Assessment of the performance to date of unvested LTIP awards x Review of incentive plans: and award levels and performance targets for 2012 awards.
x Approval of revised shareholding requirements for executive directors and the introduction of new shareholding requirements for Group Executive Committee members: and x Improved review of performance across key areas of customer: risk: people and financial.
322 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 323 RBS GROUP 2012 Performance evaluation process Accountability review process An external review of the effectiveness of the Board and Senior A summary of the accountability review process is as follows: Committees, including the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee, was conducted during 2012.
The Committee considered the x Exists to enable RBS to respond in instances where current and or outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the new information would change the annual incentive and or LTIP evaluation has been conducted.
decisions made in previous years, and or the decisions made in the current year.
The review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively and the continued importance of the remuneration agenda and the x The process for review assessments which consider material risk commitment of the Committee members was recognised.
The outcomes management, control and general policy breach failures, of the evaluation have been reported to the Board.
As Board interest in accountability for those events and appropriate action against remuneration matters remains intense and all directors understand the individuals is operated across divisions and functions.
Divisional sensitivities involved, reporting on remuneration matters to the Board will reviews are undertaken on a quarterly basis.
be further enhanced during 2013. x A Group Accountability Review Panel ensures consistency of How risk is reflected in our remuneration process decision making across the Group.
Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into incentive plan design and target setting, as well as thorough risk review of performance, x Decisions must take into account not only any financial losses but variable pools and clawback.
The Committee is supported in this by the also behavioural issues and reputational or internal costs.
Group Audit Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Groups risk management function.
x Actions may include recommendations for compensation adjustments e. g. current year variable pay reduction, clawback A robust process is used to assess risk performance.
A range of disciplinary investigations and performance adjustments e. g. a measures are considered, including funding, liquidity, credit, regulatory, change to performance rating.
The steps we take to ensure appropriate and thorough risk adjustment continue to be refined and are fully disclosed x Clawback may be up to 100% of unvested awards and can be and discussed with the FSA.
applied regardless of whether or not disciplinary action has been undertaken.
Variable pay pool determination The process for determining variable pools is discretionary, to avoid the x A key principle is that clawback quantum should not be formulaic.
unintended consequences of formulaic systems.
However, the Committee's discretion is applied within a structured framework which x Collective responsibility may be considered where a committee or starts with an assessment of risk adjusted financial performance group of employees are deemed to have not appropriately measured against budget, prior year and long-term strategic plans.
analysis is used to adjust for performance and then consider outcomes in the context of competitive variable pay funding levels.
x These principles apply to all of our people and any leavers with unvested awards.
Risk is taken into account in the performance assessment through a thorough risk analysis carried out by the Groups risk management How have we applied this in practice?
Performance assessments may be The assessment undertaken by the risk function and Board Risk adjusted in situations where risk performance is outside risk appetite or Committee confirmed that, for some divisions, a number of risk-related strategic plans.
Non-financial factors such as progress on customer events needed to be taken account of when determining variable pay issues, turnover, succession planning, market environment and franchise pools, including regulatory, compliance and credit and market risk issues.
development are then taken into account in developing a final variable The Board Risk Committee has concluded that the accountability review pay proposal.
Variable pay proposals are reviewed in the context of key assessments approach is robust and complete from a perspective of all compensation framework ratios including: compensation to revenues, known material events having been considered.
compensation to pre-compensation profit and variable pay to prevariable pay profit.
These ratios help to ensure appropriate sharing of The accountability review process is now fully embedded and during value between employees and shareholders.
Finally, variable pay 2012 a number of issues were considered under the framework.
proposals are reviewed against our capital adequacy framework to ensure that regulatory requirements are met.
The outcomes for the 2012 performance year cover a range of actions and have included: reduction of current year variable pay awards: dismissal: clawback of previously awarded deferred and LTIP awards: and suspended vesting pending further investigation.
323 GRA12 4 Governance 294 350 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 13:40 Page 324 Directors remuneration report Remuneration Governance continued Key inputs to the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee to assist its decision-making The Committee receives regular updates on regulatory developments and general remuneration issues, as well as market and benchmarking data to support its decisions.
It also received information from a number of external and internal sources during 2012.
The diagram below illustrates this: Regulators external Shareholders Accountability Reviews Asset Protection Scheme environment Extensive shareholder Divisional and Group Performance and Reward Regular updates on key consultation and reporting Accountability Review Panels Committee APSPRC developments including the to the Committee so that review risk management, control Evaluates collective overall FSA Code, Government members are aware of and policy breach issues and performance against agreed consultations, guidelines shareholder views.
make recommendations on APS performance objectives from shareholders and actions which can include and reports to the Committee.
disciplinary investigations, Following the exit from the APS current year annual incentive in October 2012, the APSPRC reduction and clawback.
will be disbanded once the 2012 The Committee receives input performance review process from the Board Risk is complete.
Committee and Group Audit Committee as well as the Group CEO, CRO and HR Director in this process.
Advisers Group Performance and The Committee has appointed Reward Committee Group independent external advisers Reviews annual incentive plans who attend private sessions Performance operated Group-wide, ensuring of the Committee without compliance with the Groups and executives present.
design principles for short term Remuneration incentives, and reports annually Committee to the Committee.
Deep dives Board Risk Committee The Committee regularly receives Reviews annual performance presentations from the divisions to objectives and also long-term obtain an insight into wider people incentive plans performance issues beyond pay.
objectives and provides advice on divisional individual risk performance.
Group Human Resources Group Finance Group Risk Management Supports the Group Performance Provides independent review Reviews incentive plan design and Remuneration Committee as of the financial performance of the and target setting and provides they develop reward philosophy, Divisions and Group and reports risk review of divisional individual strategy and policies across the on the Group's capital position.
Provides input on market trends and compensation structures for the executives and the broader population in the Group.
