CORPORATE GOVERNANCE delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee restricted by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditor.
The comprises members of senior management from Finance, Legal, Investor audit engagement partner responsible for the 2012 audit was assigned Relations, Company Secretarial and Risk and is chaired by the Group in 2012.
General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
The GAC has developed and embedded a policy and procedures to The GAC is satisfied that, during 2012, it has received sufficient, govern the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the reliable and timely information from management to enable it to auditor and its associates.
A description of the policy and procedures is fulfil its responsibilities.
available on the Companys website at www.
During the year Deloitte LLP was engaged as an adviser on a number of occasions.
Evaluation In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only The evaluation of the GAC, which was conducted by way of a made in accordance with the policy.
This provides that the external structured questionnaire, included consideration of the composition auditor should not carry out work where the output or of the Committee, the number and length of meetings held, the time recommendations are then subject to review and reliance upon by the management of the Committee, the information received by the firm as external auditor.
Work may be given to the external auditor Committee and its timeliness and the effectiveness of the Committees where it is closely allied with the audit function or it is advantageous reviews of specific areas.
The evaluation further considered the to the Group to use its external auditor in view of its knowledge effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function, the relationship and experience of the Group.
This could include accounting advice, with the external auditor and with the Board Risk Committee BRC.
regulatory returns, tax advice or due diligence work.
All non-audit work Priorities for focus were identified as refining the relationship between over 100,000 must be approved in advance by the Group CFO and the GAC and the BRC and a review of the training programme for 2013. all non-audit work over 250,000 must be approved in advance by the GAC Chairman on recommendation from the Group CFO.
With Whistle blowing reference to the procedures, the GAC is satisfied that there are no The Companys policy on whistle blowing provides a mechanism for matters that would compromise the independence of the external employees to raise serious concerns in good faith, where they either do auditor or affect the performance of its statutory duties.
Details of fees not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or are paid to Deloitte LLP during 2012 for audit and non-audit work are not satisfied with the local management response.
The GAC annually disclosed in the auditor remuneration table in note 4.
There is no reviews the policy and is satisfied that it meets the criteria set out in limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of Deloitte LLP the Code, and is well communicated with good processes in place.
as auditor to the Company.
Regulatory compliance During the year, the GAC performed a review of the effectiveness, The Board is responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
The review for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK insurance regulatory included an assessment of the audit firm, the audit partner and audit obligations.
The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory teams, and was conducted by means of a questionnaire, completed by responsibilities and is committed to dealing with the regulator in an members of senior management and members of the Groups finance open, cooperative and transparent manner.
The questionnaire sought opinions on the importance of certain criteria and the performance of the external During 2012 the GAC, on behalf of the Board, followed with interest, the auditor against those criteria.
The GAC has concluded that during the progress of the Financial Services Bill through Parliament.
Meetings were year Deloitte LLP provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
held with representatives of both the Prudential and Conduct Business However, following the impending appointment of Deloitte LLP to Units established by the FSA in anticipation of their legal separation into undertake additional consultancy work in Scandinavia, the Board and two regulatory authorities in April 2013.
The GAC also paid close Deloitte LLP felt it appropriate that they resign as the Companys attention to developing EU regulation, in particular Solvency II.
Rigorous safeguards have been put in place to ensure the continued independence of Deloitte LLP for the 2012 audit process.
The FSA conducted private meetings with several members of the A tender process for the external audit contract has recently concluded Board and executive management as a part of their close and and the GAC has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put continuous programme.
to the 2013 AGM for the appointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor.
The Board has accepted this recommendation.
In addition, the Group includes a number of regulated entities which rely on various licences to carry out their business.
Accordingly, So far as each Director of the Board is aware, there is no relevant maintaining effective relationships with the Groups regulators across audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act the world is integral to the success of the Groups strategy and its 2006 of which the Companys external auditor is unaware, and each long-term value.
Director has taken all steps necessary as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of, and to establish that the external auditor is External auditor aware of, any relevant audit information.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2007.
The GAC evaluates the tenure of Deloitte LLP annually and is not Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 53 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Group Internal Audit GIA Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance.
The Board, through the BRC, The activities and effectiveness of the GIA are monitored and reviewed considers reports from risk specialists across the Group and reviews by the GAC.
The GAC is responsible for ensuring that adequate access Group-level risk management information.
to information and resource is given to the Group Chief Auditor and for approving the appointment to and removal of the holder from, A quarterly self certification process is completed by business managers that position.
In September 2012, Caroline Ramsay was appointed as across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and their Group Chief Auditor and a member of the Group Executive team.
Her compliance with Company policies, local laws, rules and regulations.
Her predecessor, Anne Jger, became Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in Scandinavia at the same time.
The current reporting framework delivers information to monitor the systems of internal control and to review their effectiveness as required The GIA reports to management on the effectiveness of the Companys by the Code.
The Board therefore considers that an ongoing process systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
Group has been in place during 2012 and up to the date of approval of The GAC reviews and approves the annual Group Internal Audit Plan the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by following presentations from the regional CEOs and regional auditors.
the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
Financial Control Framework Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent approach include internal audit, the corporate governance framework, dialogue to finance related controls across the Group that is fit for purpose for with institutional shareholders, constructive use of the AGM and the all regions, embedding a control culture that strengthens the Groups areas described in the Accountability section in this report.
finance environment by ensuring that the Groups financial processes are managed effectively in order to mitigate the associated risks.
This Alastair Barbour, FCA is done by documenting and testing the way that core elements of Chairman, Group Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board the business operate, providing a high degree of transparency around 19 February 2013 the Groups financial control environment.
The Group has people, procedures and tools embedded in the business to maintain and streamline the control environment and to provide ongoing reporting and assurance.
Quarterly reports were presented to the GAC on the assessment and testing of controls and which included notification of any control deficiencies or breaches in the period and action taken.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the GAC and the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, financial controls, the risk management framework and the process to deliver regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are designed to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
In February 2013, the GAC and the Board reviewed the systems of internal control in operation during 2012.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Chief Auditor and her team on the integrity of the control environment and also receives reports from the external auditor based upon its audit work.
The GAC also receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance from the Group 54 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INDEX TO THE REPORT: Shareholders were supportive of the Directors Remuneration Report 55 to 56 Letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman put to them at the 2012 AGM for the 2011 financial year.
The Report 57 to 58 Section 1 Group Remuneration Committee: purpose, received a positive vote of 93.6%.
members, attendees, advisers, meetings held in 2012 and key decisions taken We appointed Richard Houghton on 12 June 2012 as Group Chief 59 to 61 Section 2 Remuneration Strategy and Policy Financial Officer from Aspen Holdings Limited to succeed George Framework for 2013 Culmer who left RSA on 14 May 2012 to join Lloyds Banking Group.
62 Section 3 Executive Directors Contracts and Mr Houghton did not receive any sign-on payments or buyouts: External Appointments however, his RSA bonus award was calculated according to the Groups 62 to 65 S ection 4 Remuneration Outcomes and other performance in 2012 and was not pro-rated for time.
The Committee Material Matters: Fixed Pay base salary, pension and made this decision to ensure that he was covered by a bonus other benefits and Variable Pay annual bonus plan and arrangement for the full financial year.
Shortly after his appointment, he long-term incentive plan, total remuneration, shareholding received an award of performance shares in the LTIP equal to 150% of levels and share plan dilution levels his salary: the inclusion of new senior hires in the LTIP is normal practice.
65 to 66 Section 5 Non-Executive Directors 66 S ection 6 Additional Disclosure: Historical Total There were other changes to the Board in the year.
The Groups Shareholder Return Performance Chairman, John Napier, retired from the Board on 31 December 2012 67 to 71 Section 7 Audited Information: Directors Emoluments, and he is succeeded by Martin Scicluna who commenced on 1 January Pension and Share Interests 2013.
Lastly, I was delighted to join RSA as a Non-Executive Director on 26 September 2012.
Dear Shareholder, In the 2011 Remuneration Report, the Committee indicated its intention to conduct a wide-ranging review of RSAs remuneration As Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee of the Board, arrangements during 2012.
This review has concluded and a series I am delighted to present this report for your approval covering the of changes are now underway to further shape and improve the year to 31 December 2012.
However, before I begin, I would like to structure and detail of executive remuneration.
Some of these changes thank my predecessor, John Maxwell, for his long-standing and valued have been implemented, while others will be determined over the next contribution to the Committee.
12 months for adoption in 2014, pending any formal shareholder approval that may be required.
This phased approach takes account The operating and market environments remain challenging and, as of my recent appointment and gives our new Chairman an opportunity Martin Scicluna has noted in his opening statement on page 8, RSA has to input into the future remuneration framework.
It also enables these reported good growth and financial performance across its businesses, further changes to fully take account of wider evolving legislation and despite the years poor weather.
The Group has delivered a Combined best practice on executive remuneration ahead of the required Operating Ratio of 95.4%, Net Written Premium of 8,353m and profit shareholder vote on remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
before tax of 479m for the year.
Against this context, the Executive Directors 2012 cash and compulsory deferred shares bonus awards We have consulted with RSAs 20 largest shareholders and the have ranged from 69% to 80% of salary out of a maximum 160% of UKs principal corporate governance bodies on the following salary.
This reflects RSAs performance against challenging targets and remuneration changes.
the strong individual performance of the Executive Directors: however, cash bonus awards have decreased by around one third in relative Remuneration benchmarking policy percentage of salary terms from 2011.
In the year, the performance In accordance with recommended practice, the Committee sets shares vested at 31% of the maximum, as did the matching shares remuneration levels having regard to appropriate market data.
derived from the compulsory deferral from the bonus awarded in 2009 The Committee has agreed that, from 2013 onwards, market data earned for the 2008 financial year.
The matching shares derived from will be taken from two distinct peer groups which will be used to the voluntary deferral from the 2008 bonus vested at 44% of the inform the judgement on appropriate pay positioning.
These outcomes reflect RSAs 11.5% average underlying groups reflect the markets where RSA typically competes for talent Return On Equity ROE over the three-year period.
Relative Total and where remuneration structures and award levels are most similar Shareholder Return TSR was below median.
Further details of the to RSA: these are noted on page 60.
Prior to 2012, RSAs policy was remuneration outputs for the year are on pages 62 to 65. to benchmark executive remuneration against the FTSE 100 and the UK financial services sector, including banks.
The Committee reviewed Executive Directors salaries and has agreed increases ranging from 2%-3% of salary, reflecting RSAs pay policy noted on page 60.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus plan when it was raised to 12%-18%.
The Committee has carefully RSAs strategic focus is on generating sustainable earnings growth to considered the landscape in which RSA operates, together with its increase shareholder value.
In support of this, the annual bonus plan future plans.
It has agreed that conditional awards granted in 2013 for 2013 will cease to incentivise growth in Net Written Premium.
All will be against a target scale of 9%-14%.
This does not soften the executives will be targeted on profit performance, as measured by degree of performance that needs to be achieved by executives, Group underlying Return on Equity ROE.
The calculation will exclude as inherent stretch is being maintained through the constraints all net gains or losses to remove the impact of accounting volatility being placed on RSA to grow its earnings in the context of its risk arising from trading RSAs investment portfolio.
This metric will be the appetite and the current investment environment consistent with sole financial bonus element for executives who work at a Group level, the same challenge being faced by its competitors.
The Committee including Simon Lee, Group Chief Executive and Richard Houghton, will continue to monitor the external conditions in which RSA Group Chief Financial Officer.
Divisional business leaders, including operates and will review the target range annually: it will revise them Adrian Brown, Chief Executive: UK and Western Europe and a director as is appropriate.
of the Company, will be incentivised against regional Combined Operating Ratio performance in addition to Group underlying ROE.
In 2011, the Committee reduced the maximum number of matching In 2011, the Committee reduced the maximum bonus that could be shares that could be earned through the LTIP from 2.5x to 2x, applying earned by Executive Directors from 180% of salary to 160% of salary: to both compulsory and voluntary deferred bonus shares.
This level this quantum level remains market aligned and will continue for 2013. of award quantum will be maintained for the 2013 grant.
The normal maximum number of performance shares that can be awarded also Long-term incentive plan LTIP remains at 150% of salary.
The current LTIP has been in place since 2006 when it was first approved by shareholders, and the Committee has refined it for the It is the Committees intention to develop a new long-term incentive 2013 grant cycle following a robust modelling and testing process: plan in 2013, with a view to seeking shareholder approval for its launch at the AGM in 2014.
The design will be simple and relevant, so that it is a The Committee has removed those companies which are reinsurers straightforward for both participants and shareholders to understand.
or predominantly life insurers from the current relative TSR peer As part of this review of the long-term incentive plan structure, the group to ensure that its constituents more closely align with RSAs Committee will also consider retention and shareholding guidelines insurance lines and geographies.
The new peer group is noted on in the context of emerging best practice.
page 61: Clawback of awards b Following careful consideration, the relative TSR outcome will be The Committee has considered the application of clawback terms derived through using the peer group as an unweighted index, within RSAs incentives and has agreed that these should form a part rather than a rank.
The level of outperformance to be reached of both the bonus and LTIP.
Deferred awards arising from the 2013 in the index approach will be equivalent in stretch to the current financial year and or unvested awards granted in 2013 will be subject ranking methodology used by RSA, i. e. median rank for entry-level to forfeiture or reduction under certain circumstances.
The policy is awards and upper quintile rank for maximum-level awards for this noted in more detail on page 65. element.
The reason for this decision is that, for RSA, an index produces a more stable and equitable outcome than a simple ranking I am committed to building strong relationships with RSAs shareholders method.
In particular, although the basket of companies chosen and communicating its remuneration policy, practices and decisions in a provides, in its totality, a good comparator for RSA, individual transparent way.
I hope you find this report clear and informative, and constituents within the group in a number of cases reflect just a part the Board looks forward to your support at the AGM.
This means that comparing RSAs performance with the comparator group as an index is a more robust measure Hugh Mitchell of performance.
The Committee believes that the measure should Chairman, Group Remuneration Committee be fair, so it can act as an effective incentive: and This report follows the UK requirements of the Companies Act 2006 c The final LTIP change concerns the performance targets used to and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts measure the underlying ROE performance condition.
Since the and Reports Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate economic downturn commenced, the decline in risk free rates and Governance Code.
It outlines the remuneration policies and individual subsequently bond investment yields have had a significant impact remuneration details of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive upon RSA, as they have upon other financial service sector companies.
Directors of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December The current ROE target range of 10%-16% has been in place since 2012.
The Board has approved this report and it will be presented to the LTIP was launched in 2006, with the exception of one year, 2008, shareholders for approval at the 2013 AGM.
56 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SECTION 1 GROUP REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Following John Napiers retirement from the Board on 31 December 2012, the Board agreed that his successor, Martin Scicluna, is not Purpose of the Committee required to be a member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
The Group Remuneration Committee is a formal Committee of the This decision was taken to reflect that the Committees collective Board, accountable to shareholders through its policies, actions and knowledge and expertise has been further strengthened following decisions which are contained in the annual Remuneration Report, the appointment to it of Jos Streppel and Hugh Mitchell.
However, upon which shareholders make an advisory vote at the AGM.
Its Martin Scicluna may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
With accountabilities include: effect from 1 March 2013, Edward Lea ceases to be a member of the r To determine the terms and conditions and remuneration of the Committee and is replaced by Johanna Waterous.
Chairman of the Board, the Executive Directors and the Executive Team whose profiles are noted on pages 36 to 39 Committee attendees r To oversee the operation of the executives incentive plans, including Several executives attend Committee meetings by invitation to advise approving the value and timing of awards and setting and monitoring on Group strategy, performance, HR and remuneration policies and performance conditions practices.
However, none of these attendees have a right to be present r To have regard to any concerns raised by the Board on the and they leave the meeting if their own remuneration is being discussed.
implications of the remuneration policy for risk and risk management The table below notes the Committee attendees during 2012. r To provide a draft of the Remuneration Report to be included in the Remuneration Companys Annual Report and Accounts to members of the Board Committee attendee Position Risk Committee for review in respect of risk and risk management to the extent not reviewed by the Board as a whole.
Group General Counsel & Group Company Secretary The Committees terms of reference were significantly updated Derek Walsh Secretary to the Committee and strengthened in 2012: they are available on RSAs website at: Simon Lee Group Chief Executive www.
com or upon written request from the Group Vanessa Evans Group Human Resources Director General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Leigh Harrison Group Reward Director Committee members External advisors The Committee comprises a number of independent Non-Executive During the year, the Committee obtained advice from Towers Watson Directors and also, for 2012 the Group Chairman, who are called upon and  PwC.
Towers Watson acted as the to exercise independent judgement on the setting and management Committees principal independent adviser from January to June 2012 of executive remuneration.
The members of the Committee in 2012 and it also supplied executive remuneration benchmarking data.
In are detailed in the table below, alongside the number of meetings they addition to providing advice to the Committee, Towers Watson advised attended.
The maximum number of meetings that each Director could RSA on general remuneration and pension-related matters in the year.
attend during the year is noted in brackets.
Non-Executive Director Meetings held in 2012 PwC was formally appointed as the Committees independent adviser in September 2012 following a market tender exercise.
It is a member Scheduled 6 Ad hoc 1 of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Edward Lea 6 6 1 1 Conduct.
PwC provides wide-ranging advice and consultancy services Malcolm Le May 6 6 1 1 across RSA globally on matters including reinsurance, IT, internal audit, 1 John Maxwell 5 5 0 0 corporate social responsibility, direct and indirect tax and governance.
2 Hugh Mitchell Chairman 2 2 1 1 3 John Napier 5 6 0 0 The Committee received legal advice in the year from Linklaters and Jos Streppel 6 6 1 1 Allen & Overy.
Mr Maxwell was Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee until 27 September 2012: his membership of the Committee ceased after this date.
Mr Mitchell was appointed as Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee on 27 September 2012.
The ad hoc meeting covered Mr Sciclunas appointment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Evaluation Committee meetings held in 2012 During the year, the Committee reflected on feedback arising from the Under its terms of reference, the Committee is required to meet 2011 evaluation.
Members knowledge was kept up to date through a at least twice each year, but it meets as often as is necessary to ensure series of meetings convened with external advisers as part of the wider that it can fully report to the Board and shareholders on all relevant remuneration review, while the Committees terms of reference were matters.
In the year, the Committee met on seven occasions six revised.
An evaluation was conducted of the Committee in December regular meetings and one ad hoc meeting and discussed, amongst 2012 and it considered matters such as its composition, advisers, other things, the subjects described in the next table.
Over the meeting schedule and remuneration policy.
Members identified future course of several months, the Company reviewed its remuneration challenges arising from the macro economic environment, rapidly arrangements and members of the Committee were invited to give changing corporate governance and legislative landscapes, and the their input to it via six steering group meetings convened for this need to balance executives and shareholders interests.
The letter to shareholders on pages 55 to 56 summarises the conclusions of the remuneration review.
Summary of the Group Remuneration Committee meetings held in 2012 Meeting Regular items Additional items January r Performance update and associated payout r Impact of the organisation restructure on the projections of the annual bonus plan 2011 remuneration of the CEOs for Canada, Scandinavia and LTIP cycle 2009-2011 and UK & Western Europe r Committee meeting schedule for 2012 r Exceptional LTIP grant in 2012 for the CEO, r Outputs of the Remuneration Committee UK & Western Europe Effectiveness Survey 2011. r Approval of the rules relating to the Scandinavia Deferred Bonus Plan.
February r Testing of the performance conditions r LTIP forms of award and historic award levels underpinning the annual bonus plan 2011 r Appointment terms of the Group Chief Financial Officer and the LTIP cycle 2009-2011. r Head office restructuring programme.
March r Review of the Directors base salaries and r Review of the LTIP rules.
approval of increases for 1st April 2012 r Approval of the Directors bonus awards for 2011 r Approval of awards to vest under the LTIP cycle 2009-2011 r Approval of the 2012 annual bonus plan.
April r Approval of the terms of the LTIP cycle 2012-2014 r Terms of reference of the remuneration review and directors associated conditional share awards r Corporate governance update.
r AGM briefing notes on Directors remuneration.
September r Approval for a supplementary grant of conditional r Revised Remuneration Committee terms of reference LTIP awards in November 2012 for non-Board employees r Appointment of PwC as independent advisor who had joined the Group after the main grant date r Appointment terms of the Group Chief Auditor r Approval to operate Sharesave in 2012. r Handover of Committee Chair role from Mr Maxwell to Mr Mitchell.
November r Appointment terms of Martin Scicluna as Chairman ad hoc meeting for submission to the Board for approval.
December r Performance update on the annual bonus plan 2012 r Outputs of the remuneration review, which included and LTIP cycles for 2010, 2011 and 2012 the bonus design and performance targets for 2013, r Summary of the LTIP awards made during 2012 and revisions to the LTIP for the 2013 grant cycle and an update on dilution levels r Revised pay benchmarking approach for approval r Market data for the 2013 salary review r Change to Directors private medical insurance benefit r Committee meeting schedule for 2013. r Termination arrangements of Mr Napier.
58 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SECTION 2 REMUNERATION STRATEGY AND POLICY A significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is FRAMEWORK FOR 2013 variable, i. e. it is subject to performance conditions and is therefore at risk.
The chart below shows how the composition of their For over 300 years, RSA has consistently been respected by its remuneration package changes using the face value award levels for customers and peers for its expertise in assessing and underwriting 2013 and three different performance scenarios: below threshold risk, and this still remains the backbone of the Group.
Attracting, below expectations, on-target in line with expectations and retaining and rewarding high calibre talent has never been more critical maximum outstanding.
In the on-target scenario, around 65% of the in todays competitive, global insurance market and RSA has developed Executive Directors package consists of variable remuneration, rising an effective remuneration strategy in response to these pressures.
to around 80% of the package for outstanding performance.
The analysis assumes that the maximum voluntary bonus deferral is made RSA believes that people are core to its business, whether they are into the LTIP in each case, and an average value of pension and other customers, shareholders, employees or regulators.
The remuneration benefits is applied.
No share price growth has been factored into the strategy is aligned closely to the business strategy and draws on the calculations, nor have accrued dividends or their equivalents.
interests of each of these stakeholder groups how this is achieved is explained in the table on pages 60 to 61, alongside the remuneration policy for 2013.
RSA operates a pay-for-performance culture across Composition of Executive Directors remuneration package the Group and the reward principles and incentive framework applied at different levels of performance 600 to Executive Directors informs the remuneration policy and incentives for the Executive Team and other employees.
500 The Committee reviews the remuneration policy at least annually Matching shares 400 and any material changes to it are communicated to major shareholders Performance shares and the corporate governance bodies in advance of implementation.
Annual Bonus 300 cash and As noted in the letter to shareholders on pages 55 to 56, several policy compulsory changes have been agreed for implementation in 2013 following a 200 deferred shares remuneration review and these are set out in the table on pages 60 Pension and to 61.
The Committee will be further reviewing the LTIP, shareholding 100 other benefits guidelines and holding policy during 2013 with a view to introducing Annual base salary 0 a new LTIP in 2014, subject to shareholder approval.
Below On-target Maximum threshold Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 59 Percentage of annual base salary DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Elements of remuneration Purpose and strategic link Policy for 2013 Base salary r Reviewed annually with consideration of: market positioning, internal fixed remuneration pay relativities, salary budgets, inflation and affordability Salaries are set at a level sufficient to attract r Benchmarked referencing the market median sourced from two peer groups and retain executives, taking account of their of listed international insurers and FTSE listed companies of comparable roles and individuals expertise and experience.
market capitalisation to RSA, excluding banks and heavy industries r Judgement is applied to ensure that pay decisions are not purely data-driven and recognise the impact of increases on other elements of remuneration.
Pension and other benefits r Benefits include non-contributory pension plan membership or cash fixed remuneration allowance, company car or cash allowance, private medical cover, life Pension and other employment benefits are provided assurance, discounts on certain insurance products, and participation at market competitive levels, reflecting the role, company in Sharesave and Sharebuild size and sector.
r Only annual base salary is pensionable r Executives are not compensated for any changes in taxation.
Annual bonus plan r All permanent employees are eligible to receive a cash bonus award variable remuneration r Awards are calculated against annual targets and are made in cash Supports RSAs short-term objectives.
Targets are directly and compulsory deferred shares linked to RSAs operational plan and reflect RSAs priority r Overall bonus opportunity is set at a level to be market competitive.
to create shareholder value through sustained growth Awards subject to deferral arising from the 2013 annual bonus plan and profitability, based on its risk profiles.
can also be forfeited or reduced prior to their release according to RSAs clawback policy summarised on page 65.
Deferral into shares creates shareholder alignment and acts as a retention mechanism.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP r Performance metrics chosen to give shareholder alignment and variable remuneration support business strategy Incentivises delivery against share price and r LTIP grants are made annually to a range of senior employees profit growth targets.
across the Group r Awards are made in the form of performance shares and matching shares which vest subject to performance conditions Share awards further the alignment of executives and r Performance conditions are measured over three financial years shareholders interests, supported by RSAs Shareholding and are not retested.
Conditions are reviewed annually Guidelines.
Under this policy detailed on page 65 at least r Dividends do not start to accrue until after vesting 50% of vested shares, net of statutory deductions, must be r Unvested share awards granted from 2013 onwards can be subject retained until the holding requirement has been achieved.
to forfeiture under RSAs clawback policy as noted on page 65.
Leaver treatment r Executives who resign or are dismissed for cause are, by default, not Ensures fair treatment for departing executives eligible for an annual bonus if they have left or are under notice at date while avoiding payment for failure.
of payment, and forfeit all deferred bonus shares and LTIP shares, other than those shares that have been voluntarily deferred into the LTIP r At the Committees discretion good leavers normally including such circumstances as retirement, death, disability, and redundancy may be eligible for an annual bonus for the proportion of the bonus year served r Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in line with the normal timetable, and LTIPs may vest subject to performance and time-prorating.
60 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Opportunity and performance conditions Key changes to policy from 2012 r Performance conditions do not apply to this element of remuneration r As a result of a review, RSA no longer r 2013 base salary for Executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2013 : benchmarks pay against the FTSE 100 Simon Lee: 824,000 and the UK financial services sector: it Richard Houghton: 494,400 introduced two new peer groups in 2012.
Adrian Brown: 484,500. r Provided at a level consistent with other senior employees r No changes.
r Employer pension contributions for Executive Directors are: Simon Lee: 25% of salary Richard Houghton: 13.18% of salary Adrian Brown: 17.5% of salary r Performance conditions do not apply to this element of remuneration.
r On-target bonus opportunity is 80% of salary, rising to 160% of salary r For 2013 Net Written Premium has been for maximum performance removed as a performance measure and r Up to 50% of the Executive Directors bonus is deferred into RSA shares Group underlying ROE introduced r 70% of the bonus is based on financial targets.
For 2013, measures for Executive r A new clawback policy has also been Directors are: Group underlying Return on Equity ROE and, also for Adrian introduced for 2013, noted on page 65.
Brown, the Combined Operating Ratio for the UK & Western Europe division r 30% of the bonus is based on scorecard metrics including operational goals, customer satisfaction retention, employee engagement and regulatory compliance risk objectives.
r The ROE target range for 2013 has been revised r Normal maximum of 150% of salary annually 250% of salary in and further context for this revision is provided exceptional circumstances in the shareholder letter on pages 55 to 56 r A maximum of two matching shares are granted for each share deferred r The TSR comparator group has been refined from the 2012 bonus award to ensure alignment with RSAs insurance lines r For conditional LTIP awards to be granted in 2013: and geographies 70% Group underlying Return on Equity ROE r The methodology for measuring TSR performance 30% relative Total Shareholder Return TSR has also been changed from a ranked to an r Any matching shares linked to voluntary deferral will vest solely according to ROE unweighted index basis to deliver a more robust r 25% of the ROE part of the award will vest for three-year average ROE of 9% measure of performance for this peer group with full vesting for ROE of 14% r As noted above, a new clawback policy has also r TSR performance will be compared to an unweighted index of comparators been introduced for 2013, noted on page 65. r 25% of the TSR part of the award will vest if RSAs TSR is equal to the index with full vesting if RSA outperforms the index by at least 7% per annum 22.5% compound over three years or exceeds the TSR of the highest performing company in the index r A straight line calculation is applied for performance realised between the threshold and maximum targets r The TSR comparator group for 2013 comprises: ACE, Admiral, Allianz, Amlin, Aviva, Catlin, Direct Line, Gjensidige Forsikring, Intact, Hiscox, Mapfre, QBE, Topdanmark, Trygg and Zurich.
r Where good leavers receive pro-rated bonus or LTIP awards, performance r No changes.
is tested in line with the normal performance timetable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SECTION 3 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTRACTS AND SECTION 4 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES AND OTHER EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS MATERIAL MATTERS Service agreements 1.
Fixed remuneration Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service Base salary agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries during 2012 conditions.
Under normal circumstances, the service agreement and did so referencing a range of information including market data in respect of each Executive Director continues until age 65: the taken from the insurance sector and the FTSE 50-100, UK inflation agreements may, however, be terminated earlier by the Company figures and the average reviews applied elsewhere in the Group, or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
Each of the including those for employees subject to collective bargaining Executive Directors agreements contain restrictive covenants that agreements.
The Committee made salary review decisions through protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company.
the application of judgement, so as to avoid an automatic upward ratcheting of remuneration.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek On 1 November 2011, Simon Lee was appointed to succeed Andy and apply mitigation and payments may be made on a phased basis.
Haste as Group Chief Executive on a salary of 800,000: his salary None of the Executive Directors have terms in their service agreements remained unchanged throughout 2012.
Richard Houghton was which allow them additional rights or payment in the event of a appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 12 June 2012 on an reconstruction or amalgamation of the Group.
The Company has annual salary of 480,000.
Adrian Browns role expanded significantly the contractual right to place the Executive Directors on garden leave at the start of the year with the inclusion of Western Europe to his UK for part or all of their notice period.
portfolio: to reflect this increase in responsibilities, his salary was adjusted from 430,000 to 475,000 on 1 January 2012.
George The Executive Directors service agreements became effective on the Culmer did not receive a salary increase in 2012, as he had tendered following dates: his resignation before the salary review process had commenced.
Director Effective date The Executive Directors earnings for 2012 are further noted on page Simon Lee 1 November 2011 67.
The salaries taking effect from 1 April 2013 are as follows: Richard Houghton 12 June 2012 Director Annual base salary Percentage change Adrian Brown 5 July 2011 1 Simon Lee 824,000 3% George Culmer 1 May 2004 Richard Houghton 494,400 3% Note: 2% Adrian Brown 484,500 1.
George Culmer ceased to be employed by the Group on 14 May 2012.
External appointments Pension provision The Board recognises the value that can be gained from its executives All UK employees are automatically enrolled in RSAs Stakeholder obtaining wider experience outside of RSA.
Where appropriate, and Pension Plan a defined contribution plan on a non-contributory basis with the Chairman or Group Chief Executives prior approval, Executive when joining the Company.
RSA closed its UK final salary pension Directors and the Executive Team may hold one external Nonscheme to new entrants on 1 April 2002 and current members of Executive appointment and may retain any remuneration arising from this scheme accrue benefits against pensionable earnings capped performing such a role.
Simon Lee is a member of the Board of the at 75,000, with Stakeholder Pension Plan membership being given Association of British Insurers for which he receives no remuneration.
for earnings above this cap.
Pension plan membership is offered to employees across the Group according to local country practice.
Executives are only permitted to receive a cash allowance fully in lieu of pension plan participation if they are at or approaching either HMRCs statutory Annual Allowance or the Lifetime Allowance.
The table below details the pension arrangements for the Executive Directors during 2012: Director Pension arrangement Simon Lee r a taxable cash supplement of 25% of base salary.
Richard Houghton r a taxable cash supplement of 13.18% of base salary.
62 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Director Pension arrangement The bonuses awarded to Simon Lee and Richard Houghton reflect the financial performance delivered across the Group, as well as their own Adrian Brown r member of the Stakeholder Pension Plan leadership and operational goals.
Adrian Browns bonus award was until January 2012 and received an employer weighted towards the performance of the UK & Western Europe contribution of 11% of base salary and a taxable division for which he is accountable, along with a proportion for the cash supplement of 6.5% of base salary: Groups financial performance and his operational goals.
In summary, r a taxable cash supplement of 17.5% of base the Group reported good growth and financial performance despite salary was paid from February 2012 onwards.
It is successfully executing its strategy to George Culmer r member of Stakeholder Pension Plan and, grow premiums, improve underwriting profitability and focus its capital until he left RSA on 14 May 2012, received to generate shareholder value.
The UK & Western Europe division an employer contribution of 8% of base made good progress in the year, targeting profitable growth and taking salary and a taxable cash supplement of action to remediate key portfolios, but sustained significant losses higher 22% of base salary.
than forecast reflecting weather and other exceptional events.
Other employment benefits The cash bonuses awarded to Executive Directors for 2012 are noted The Executive Directors received a range of employment benefits below, out of a maximum of 120% of salary.
For comparison, the value during the year and the value of these is noted in the table on page 67. of the bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors in 2011 is noted In addition, they can participate in RSAs all-employee share plans in brackets as a percentage of salary: this highlights that bonuses have Sharesave and Sharebuild and details of their share interests in these decreased year-on-year in relative percentage of salary terms by around plans to 31 December 2012 are noted in the tables on pages 69 and 71. one third.
In accordance with RSAs LTIP, compulsory deferred shares will be granted in April 2013 valued at 33% of the executives cash 2.
The cash awards are included in the emoluments table Annual bonus plan on page 67 and both the cash and compulsory deferred share awards During 2012, the Executive Directors bonus plan consisted of stretching are noted in the single figure table on page 64. targets aligned to Combined Operating Ratio COR, Net Written Premium NWP and operational objectives personal to their roles Cash bonus award 2012 which were assessed against a performance scorecard.
Seventy per % of salary cent of the bonus award is subject to COR and NWP targets.
Director Value 2011 in brackets 1 Simon Lee 481,440 60% 91% The Executive Directors award opportunity is set out in the 2 Richard Houghton 255,264 53% table below.
3 Adrian Brown 247,000 52% 88% Compulsory Note: Cash bonus deferred shares The bonus awards were determined by the Committee relative to the following annual % of salary % of salary gross basic salaries, and in the case of Mr Lee for 2011, his actual earnings for the year.
Mr Houghton did not receive a bonus award for 2011.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP Executive Directors were also invited to defer a further 33% of their Under the 2009-2011 plan cycle, Executive Directors could be awarded net cash bonus into shares on a voluntary basis.
All three Executive performance shares up to 150% of salary and receive up to 2.5 Directors elected to make the maximum voluntary deferral.
All matching shares for each share deferred through the 2008 annual deferred shares are held in trust for three years.
The 2010 and 2011 cycles operate in the same way as shares may be awarded against these through the LTIP, which is described for the 2009 cycle.
described in more detail in this report.
The Groups performance against LTIP targets was tested by the To ensure that Richard Houghton was covered by a bonus Committee and independently verified.
The results of this are set arrangement for 2012, his bonus award has not been pro-rated out in the table below.
for time based on his appointment date of 12 June 2012: it reflects the Groups performance across the full financial year.
No other Group exceptional remuneration has been paid or awarded to him.
The Target range performance inclusion of Mr Houghton in the 2012 LTIP cycle is noted below.
Median to upper quintile George Culmer did not receive a bonus award for 2012 following Relative TSR 5.9%-20.2% -4.8% his resignation from the Group.
ROE 3-year average 10%-16% 11.5% Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 63 DiREcTORS REMUNERATiON REPORT cONTiNUED The proportion of awards that vested as a consequence of this performance is given in the table below.
The actual number of shares that vested and lapsed for Simon Lee and Adrian Brown is detailed in the table on page 70.
Form of award Weighting of performance conditions Proportion of awards that vested ROE Relative TSR ROE Relative TSR Total Performance Shares 70% 30% 43.75% 0% 30.63% Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares 70% 30% 43.75% 0% 30.63% Voluntarily Invested Deferred Matching Shares 100% 0% 43.75% 43.75% During the year, conditional awards of performance shares and matching shares were made to Simon Lee and Adrian Brown.
Simon Lee received performance shares equal to 150% of his salary and, as was disclosed in the 2011 Remuneration Report, the Committee agreed to award Adrian Brown performance shares worth 250% of his salary due to the critical nature of his role.
Matching shares were awarded at 2x the number of shares that Mr Lee and Mr Brown had deferred from their 2011 bonus awards.
Richard Houghton received a conditional award of performance shares worth 150% of his salary shortly after his commencement date in line with RSAs standard practice for newly-hired senior executives.
Mr Houghton was not granted any matching shares.
The performance and matching share awards granted in 2012 will vest in 2015, subject to the satisfaction of the plans performance conditions as follows: Average Group underlying ROE of 10%-16% over the 2012-2014 financial years Relative TSR between median and upper quintile within a peer group of: Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Baloise, Generali, Legal & General, Munich Re, QBE, Swiss Re and Zurich.
The proportion of the awards that are subject to these conditions is as noted in the table above.
The policy for 2013 grants is set out on page 60.
The Committee is not expecting to make any performance share awards to the Executive Directors or Executive Team in excess of 150% of salary in 2013, which is the normal policy level.
As mentioned in the shareholder letter on page 55, the LTIP will be reviewed during 2013 with the expectation that a new plan will be put to shareholders for approval in 2014.
Total remuneration The Committee welcomes greater transparency in the reporting of Directors remuneration.
As the revised reporting regulations have yet to come into force, the table below discloses the total remuneration of the Executive Directors serving as at 31 December 2012 as contained in the audited section of this report, in addition to the face value of the compulsory deferred shares to be granted for 2012 performance.
Richard Houghton joined RSA on 12 June 2012.
These values are as set out in the emoluments table on page 67.
In respect of Adrian Brown, this figure includes the value that RSA contributed into RSAs Stakeholder Pension Plan during 2012 which is detailed in the table on page 68.
The face value of the compulsory deferred shares that were approved for awarding to the Executive Directors arising through the annual bonus plan for 2012.
The value of awards that vested on 6 April 2012 relating to the LTIP granted in 2009, against the market price of 1.043 as noted on page 70.
Deferred shares vesting in the year are omitted from this calculation as they are derived from the 2008 bonus and are already earned.
The aggregate gain made in 2012 through the exercise of Sharesave options as noted on page 69, and the Sharebuild matching shares granted in 2012 valued at 1.257, as at 31 December 2012 as noted on page 71.
64 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.
Other material matters Dilution Clawback policy RSA monitors its dilution levels on a regular basis to ensure that they The Committee has introduced a clawback policy which, at its remain within the headroom limits set by the Association of British discretion, reduces or forfeits bonus and LTIP awards that have yet Insurers ABI.
As at 31 December 2012, the dilution levels were to be paid or vest.
Three circumstances have been defined where the as follows: principle of clawback technically termed a malus adjustment could ABI limit RSA dilution % be applied: employee misconduct: error in the basis of the award calculation or other term: and material financial misstatement of the 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 7.08% results underpinning the award.
Material will not be defined, but 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 4.44% will be at a level the Committee considers is appropriate.
As the adjustment of deferred bonus awards has not previously been SECTION 5 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS communicated to employees, the clawback policy will apply to bonuses earned for 2013 performance and onwards thereafter.
Board Chairman Similarly, the policy will apply to the 2013 LTIP and future grants John Napier retired from the Board on 31 December 2012.
During and not retrospectively, i. e. awards granted in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
2012, he received an annual fee of 400,000, which had remained The Committee will review the clawback policy annually and will unchanged since 2010, and an annual accommodation allowance of report to shareholders in the event it is invoked.
Upon retirement, Mr Napier was paid 100,000 in lieu of his three months contractual notice period, plus a taxable lump sum Shareholding guidelines of 16,500 in full and final settlement of the contractual obligation on RSA believes it is in shareholders interests for its executives to hold RSA to pay for his rented accommodation.
Its current share ownership guidelines have been in place since 2004 and they will be reviewed by the Committee in 2013.
Under Martin Scicluna was appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2013 for the guidelines, executives are expected to build up a minimum holding an initial fixed term of three years, although this can be extended by over a five year period and maintain it thereafter.
Executives should not agreement from the Board or terminated by the giving of at least three sell more than 50% of their net shares awarded through the Companys months notice by either party.
Under the terms of his appointment incentive plans until their guideline holding has been reached.
The letter, Mr Scicluna receives an annual fee of 400,000 and does not required shareholding levels are as follows: qualify for any other benefits or incentives.
His fee will not be reviewed until January 2016.
Required shareholding Level of executive % of salary Group Chief Executive 200% Other Executive Directors 150% Executive Team 75% The number of shares held by Simon Lee and Adrian Brown as at 31 December 2012 is shown in the table below: their holding exceeds the required shareholding level.
Richard Houghton will start to acquire shares during 2013.
Percentage 1 2 3 Director Shareholding Valuation of salary Simon Lee 1,562,555 1,964,132 246% Adrian Brown 768,609 966,142 203% Notes: 1.
The shareholding excludes all unvested share awards and those otherwise subject to forfeiture or a holding period.
It includes Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares and shares acquired through RSAs all-employee plan, Sharebuild.
The valuation is against the mid market closing price of an RSA ordinary share as at 31 December 2012 of 1.257.
The gross basic annual salary as at 31 December 2012.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors SECTION 6 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE Under the Companys Articles, the remuneration paid to NonExecutive Directors is determined by the Board, within limits set Historical TSR performance by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to The graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a participate in RSAs incentive arrangements, nor do they receive any requirement of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies benefits.
The fees were last adjusted in 2010 and were benchmarked and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. during 2012.
The current Non-Executive Directors fees are set out in the table below.
The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
Fee structure The FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index comprises a Base fee 60,000 range of European insurance businesses which are considered Additional fee for chairing committees: to be key competitors to RSA.
The FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies of the UK market.
TSR Group Audit Committee 20,000 performance relative to the indices is shown over the five years from Group Remuneration Committee 12,500 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2012.
TSR reflects the change Group Investment Committee 12,500 in value of ordinary shares in a company over time, as represented Board Risk Committee 12,500 by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 and including any distribution of dividends.
Data was provided Additional fee for sitting on one or more 5,000 by Datastream.
Committees in a capacity other than Chairman Historical TSR performance of the value of a hypothetical Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but 100 holding over five years based on spot values are issued with an appointment letter.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three-year period of appointment, which may be 130 terminated by either party giving not less than one months notice to 120 the other.
The table below shows when the Non-Executive Directors 110 appointments became effective and when their terms will expire.
100 Non-Executive Date of initial Expiry date of 90 Director appointment current term 80 Alastair Barbour 10 October 2011 10 October 2014 70 Noel Harwerth 30 March 2004 27 May 2013 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Edward Lea 10 July 2003 27 May 2013 Malcolm Le May 30 March 2004 27 May 2013 RSA FTSE World Europe Non Life Insurance Index John Maxwell 10 July 2003 27 May 2013 FTSE 100 Index Hugh Mitchell 26 September 2012 26 September 2015 Jos Streppel 3 October 2011 3 October 2014 Johanna Waterous 20 May 2008 20 May 2014 66 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SECTION 7 AUDITED INFORMATION Deloitte LLP has audited the following items, as stipulated by law: r The table of Directors emoluments and associated footnotes on page 67 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind r The table of Directors defined contribution pensions on page 68 and associated footnotes r The table of disclosure of Directors share options and share awards on pages 69 to 71 and associated footnotes.
In constitution and operation the Committee complies fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code as described in the Directors and Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 54.
The information required by paragraph 1, schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is shown in note 4 of the Financial Statements.
Directors emoluments Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012 was as follows: 1 Base salary Allowances Other Total Total 2 and fees and benefits Bonuses payments 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 3 Adrian Brown 475 149 247 871 607 4 George Culmer 206 56 19 281 703 5 Richard Houghton 267 45 255 567 6 Simon Lee 800 234 481 1,515 1,149 Non-Executive Directors 7 Alastair Barbour 80 80 15 Noel Harwerth 78 78 78 Edward Lea 85 85 85 Malcolm Le May 78 78 78 John Maxwell 74 74 78 8 Hugh Mitchell 19 19 9 John Napier 400 17 117 534 417 Jos Streppel 65 65 16 Johanna Waterous 65 65 65 Notes: 1.
The total figure includes all allowances chargeable to UK Income Tax.
2012 cash bonuses were calculated in accordance with the plan described on page 56 of this Report and will be paid in March 2013.
Adrian Browns allowances include 17.5% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly with effect from February 2012 when Adrian Brown opted out of the defined contribution scheme.
In addition, he received medical benefits worth 861 and additional taxable travel benefits worth 60k.
George Culmer resigned as a Director with effect from 14 May 2012.
Accordingly the table above shows his salary, allowances and benefits for the period 1 January 2012 to 14 May 2012.
In addition, he received payment in lieu of holiday not taken.
His allowances included medical, car and travel benefits of 10k.
He received a pension allowance of 22% of basic salary.
Richard Houghton was appointed as a Director on 12 June 2012.
Accordingly the table above shows his salary, allowances and benefits for the period from 12 June 2012 to 31 December 2012.
His allowances include 13.18% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly with effect from his appointment.
In addition, he received car and medical benefits worth 10k.
Simon Lees allowances include 25% of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
During 2012, the amount paid to him was 200k.
He also received travel, car benefits and medical and accidental death cover benefits worth 34k.
Alastair Barbour chaired the Group Audit Committee with effect from 1 April 2012.
There was a period of overlap with Edward Lea during which time a handover was undertaken resulting in both Directors receiving the additional Chairmans fee.
Hugh Mitchell was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2012 and as Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee on 27 September 2012.
Accordingly, the table above shows the fees paid for the period 26 September 2012 until 31 December 2012.
John Napier retired as a Director and Chairman on 31 December 2012.
He received an annual fee of 400k per annum and was entitled to receive an accommodation allowance of 33k gross per annum.
Additionally, he claimed business travel expenses of 1k in the year.
John Napier was paid 116,500 in lieu of his three-month notice period and the balance of six months accommodation allowance for the outstanding commitment of the lease.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pension benefits Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any pension benefits.
No Executive Directors were members of the Group defined benefit scheme in the year.
The Company contributions paid in respect of Executive Directors who are members of Group defined contribution schemes, were as follows: Company Company contributions paid in contributions paid in 2012 2011 1 Adrian Brown 4,354 23,141 2 George Culmer 16,495 44,520 Notes: 1.
The contributions disclosed in the table above relate to the period to 31 January 2012 at which date Adrian Brown opted out of the defined contribution scheme.
The contributions for George Culmer for 2012 relate to the period from 1 January 2012 to 14 May 2012 when he left the Company.
Shareholdings The interests of Directors in ordinary shares of 27.5p each of the Company were as follows: Shares held at Shares held at 1 January 31 December Director 2012 2012 1,2 Executive Directors Adrian Brown 505,149 624,407 3 Richard Houghton Simon Lee 1,016,664 1,359,300 2 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 20,000 20,609 Noel Harwerth 10,000 10,000 Edward Lea 703,521 764,917 Malcolm Le May 20,107 21,862 John Maxwell 522,977 536,832 3 Hugh Mitchell 20,000 4 John Napier 600,821 653,256 Jos Streppel Johanna Waterous 36,761 36,761 Notes: 1.
The Executive Directors each had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2012 in Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares of 27.5p each held under the LTIP and in the Partnership, Dividend and Matching Shares under Sharebuild which are not included in the above table.
These are disclosed on pages 70 and 71.
As at 19 February 2013, the interests in ordinary shares of the current Non-Executive Directors and Richard Houghton had not changed since 31 December 2012.
Changes in the interests of Simon Lee and Adrian Brown are disclosed in the notes to the Sharebuild table on page 71.
The above table does not reflect any subsequent changes in shareholdings of those Directors who have left the Company.
Richard Houghton and Hugh Mitchell were appointed to the Board on 12 June 2012 and 26 September 2012 respectively.
Accordingly, the table above shows shares held by them on the date of their respective appointments and not 1 January 2012.
John Napier retired as a Director and Chairman of the Company on 31 December 2012.
The above schedule reflects his shareholding as at 31 December 2012.
68 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Options 1999 ESOS The 1999 ESOS is an executive share option scheme under which options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
Any outstanding options expire ten years from the date of grant.
No grants have been made under the 1999 ESOS since 2006.
The 1999 ESOS expired in 2009 although a number of options remain outstanding in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The relevant performance conditions were achieved in respect of all options granted between those dates.
Outstanding options ESOS and Sharesave None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection by shareholders at the AGM and at the Companys registered office during standard business hours.
Unexpired options held during 2012 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company as a result of executive and Sharesave share option schemes are shown below.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
The aggregate gain made by Directors during the year on the exercise of share options amounted to 792.77.
The official closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 127.9p per share and at its lowest was 97.65p per share.
On the last dealing day of the year it was 125.7p per share.
The market price of ordinary shares on 11 May and 15 June 2012, the dates on which LTIP interests were granted during the year, were 103.7p and 102.3p respectively.
Deferred Shares are inclusive of Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares and Compulsory Deferred Shares.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares are purchased by Capita Trustees Limited on behalf of each participant using part of the net annual bonus paid to them and are held in trust for three years.
These Deferred Shares are not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn from the trust at any time but any associated Matching Shares lapse if this occurs.
The performance conditions relating to the Matching Shares granted in the year are as noted on page 61 of this Report and are noted in prior years reports relating to grants made in 2010 and 2011.
Performance conditions relating to awards of Performance Shares are the same as those relating to Compulsory Deferred Matching Shares for the relevant year of grant, and are noted on page 61 of this Report in relation to grants made in 2012.
The date by which qualifying conditions for LTIP awards must be met is as follows: 2010 awards by 31 December 2012, 2011 awards by 31 December 2013 and 2012 awards by 31 December 2014.
In respect of the awards made to Adrian Brown and Simon Lee, the market price on the date of grant of awards 6 April 2009 was 121.2p, the market price on the date of vesting of awards 6 April 2012 was 104.3p.
For awards made in 2009, the ROE performance condition was partially met at a result of 11.5% and the relative TSR performance condition was not met.
The aggregate value of share awards vested for Directors during the year under the LTIP amounted to 619,739.44.
Voluntarily Invested Deferred Shares which are shown in the table above are not included in this value.
No other current Directors of the Company held long-term incentive scheme interests during 2012.
70 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sharebuild The Directors interests in Sharebuild Shares were as follows: 2 Sharebuild Partnership Matching Sharebuild Shares held at Shares Shares Dividend Shares held at 1 January acquired during awarded during Shares acquired 31 December 2012 the year the year during the year 2012 1 Adrian Brown 5,334 1,362 1,362 581 8,639 1 Simon Lee 5,334 1,362 1,362 581 8,639 Notes 1.
The interests of Adrian Brown and Simon Lee each increased by 198 ordinary shares on 7 January 2013 and a further 192 ordinary shares on 7 February 2013 following the purchase of Partnership Shares and the awards of Matching Shares on those dates.
Under the terms of the Companys all employee Sharebuild Plan an HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan, the Matching Shares awarded between December 2009 and February 2010 have vested.
Any Matching Shares which have vested under the rules have remained in the Trust and are included in the above table.
Hugh Mitchell Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board 19 February 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 71
