160 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report Committed to long-term shareholder value Dear Shareholder Our performance, reward and bene ts arrangements support and drive our business strategy and reinforce our values in the context of a clearly articulated risk appetite and One Bank framework.
We reward sustained performance over time and decisions on pay in 2012 are strongly based on differentiation both for sustained performance and for behaviours we do not reward failure.
Challenges of applying regulation globally The Remuneration Committee the Committee, together with input from the Board, has continued to focus on ensuring that the Groups policies remain aligned to best practice and competitive with our peers.
Whilst being sensitive to the broader issues surrounding executive compensation and, in addition, in meeting the speci c requirements of regulators guidelines, we take a global approach on remuneration, as at least 97 per cent of our employees are based outside the UK.
It is vital we pay our people for their performance across our footprint of Asia, Africa and the Middle East many labour markets remain buoyant and highly competitive.
This unlevel playing eld continues to add challenges to how we respond in competitive environments across our footprint.
As in Ruth Markland previous years, we continue to support remuneration practices Chairman of the Remuneration Committee that encourage financial stability, strong risk management processes and demonstration of our desired behaviours.
fide cisions on pay in 2012 are strongly based Clearer and more transparent disclosure and reporting on differentiation both for sustained Within Europe and the UK in particular, we have seen the performance and for behaviours we do not evolution of new guidelines and further consultation in relation to remuneration structures and disclosure.
Although both the reward failure.
UK Department of Business Innovation and Skills and European Union disclosure requirements have yet to be formally introduced, we are taking the opportunity to adopt a number of 2013 priorities the proposals now.
In addition to our greater transparency on the The Committees key areas of focus will be: remuneration of executives through the adoption of new tables, Supporting the Group strategy we have also split the report int o the following sections: Ensuring compliance withthe dynamic regulatory A report outlining how our remuneration policies have been environment including the new European Union implemented in 2012, including decisions on the global remuneration rules variable compensation pool and executive remuneration outcomes Ongoing review of sales incentive practices A policy report with a forward-looking statement outlining our Continued focus on ensuring that the Groups policies performance and reward approach and practices remain aligned to best practice and competitive with ourpeers Other remuneration disclosures required by existing regulation Adoption of a new all employee Sharesave plan Continued review of the approach to determining performance awards for executive directors Corporate governance 161 Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders % 100 18.0 18.5 15.6 14.5 25.1 24.4 26.7 22.8 80 37.8 60 39.6 40.3 35.8 40 Cost of discretionary variable compensation Corporate taxation including levy 22.6 20 19.5 20.4 Retained by shareholders 18.4 Paid to shareholders in dividends 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Conduct and its impact on performance and reward However, as in previous years, the Committee carefully For many years, the Group has had a performance and reward considered the balance of all stakeholders interests including policy that is designed to support a One Bank performance - the value delivered to shareholders before nalising the size of orientated culture, ensuring that individual rewards and the TVC pool and any executive remuneration decisions.
Indeed, incentives relate to the Groups overall performance, the the cost of variable compensation has fallen in relative terms to relevant business unit and individual employee performance.
the value paid to shareholders as dividends and this pattern has However, the Group places equal importance on how continued in 2012.
The approved TVC pool for2012 is 7 per cent employees ha five conducted themselves and achieved their lower yearonyear.
performance objectives, as well as what has been achieved.
The Group has managed aggregate staff costs carefully in 2012.
The measurement of values, conduct and behaviour remains The staff cost to income ratio is down from 37.6 to 34.5 per cent an integral component of our performance management and average staff costs have decreased year-onyear by 3.1 per assessment process through our distinctive fivepoint values cent to $7 3, 930 despite an increase in the number of employees.
rating scale with reward decisions directly impacted by the level of adherence to the Groups values.
Consequently, the Committee believed it was appropriate to make variable compensation awards to those that contributed to Settlements with the US authorities the Groups continued success including the executive directors.
During the year, the Committee discussed the remuneration These awards were at a level that balanced the good financial related matters arising from the settlements with the US performance with both the external context, signi cant events authorities.
The settlements related to issues between 2001 during the year and the competitive markets in which we and 2007, during which time the majority of current employees operate.
were not part of the Group.
Further details of the settlements The Directors remuneration report has been prepared by the with the US authorities can be found on page 136.
The Committee and approved by the Board as a whole.
On behalf of Committee determined that the impact of these settlements the Committee, I encourage you to vote in favour of our report should be re ected in the 2012 decisions on Total Variable at the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting and, in the Compensation TVC along with all other relevant financial and meantime, welcome any feedback that you may have.
The Committee also carefully considered whether the circumstances were appropriate to exercise the claw-back of past awards, inrespect of 2001 to 2007.
W e concluded that it was not.
Inreaching this conclusion, the Committee also noted that income and pro ts from the matters that were the subject Ruth Markland ofthe settlements were immaterial, and therefore did not in ate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee anyprior bonus payout in any material manner.
Context to year-end compensation decisions The Committee recognised that 2012 was another year of good financial performance, acknowledging that this success was part of a long-term and sustained performance in which the Group has generated substantial value for shareholders.
Since the end of 2007: The Groups operating pro t has risen by 66.8 per cent, equivalent to compound annual growth of 10.8 per cent, compared with average staff cost growth over the same period of 30.3 per cent Total shareholder return has grown by 19 per cent relative to adecline of 35.6 per cent in our peer group We have maintained our dividend per share policy, with a growth rate of 40.8 per cent We have maintained strong capital and liquidity positions and have delivered returns above the cost of capital 162 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 1 2 3 Remuneration Committee The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2012: Scheduled Ad hoc meetings: 5 meetings: 1 R Markland Chairman 1 5 5 1 1 4 5 V F Gooding 2 5 5 1 1 J G H Paynter 3 5 5 1 1 J W Peace 4 5 5 1 1 P D Skinner 5 5 5 1 1 Other attendees at Committee meetings include: The ad hoc meeting of the Committee took place on 7 November 2012 Group Chief Executive Of cer: Group Head, Human Resources and Communications: Group Chief Risk Of cer: Group Head, Performance, RewardandBene ts: Group Company Secretary and the Committees As Val Gooding will be stepping down from the Board with effect from  advisor.
As part of each formal Committee 1May 2013, anew independent non-executive director will become meeting, the Committee has private members onlymeetings.
a member of theCommittee during the second half of 2013.
Implementation report: Committee role and focus  The Committee has oversight of all reward policies for The Committees governance andapproach Standard Chartered employees.
It is responsible for settingthe principles and governance framework for all Remuneration advis ers compensation decisions.
In particular, the Committee: The Committee retained Towers Watson as its independent advis er for a further 12 months to advise on a range of executive Determines and agrees the remuneration of the senior remunerationrelated issues.
Towers Watson also provides executives and employees with the potential to have pensions, actuarial and human resources advisory services to a material impact on the risk pro le of the Group companies in the Group.
We are satis ed that the consultants Approves any proposal to award a high remuneration advising the Committee are signi cantly independent of other package to new recruits or a high level individual Towers Watson activities in the Group.
The engagement with performance award to a Group employee Towers Watson observes the code of conduct for remuneration consultants in the UK.
Ensures that the remuneration policy is appropriate and consistent with effective risk management, with the Towers Watson provided formal reward survey data to the Group Chief Risk Of cer attending key meetings of the Committee.
Clifford Chance LLP advised on the design and Committee during the year operation of our share plans and also advised on issues relating to executive and non-executive directors contracts.
Approves the overall Total Variable Compensation TVC paid globally on an annual basis Our activities during 2012 in addition to the Committees regular activities Reviewed remuneration policy in line with peer banks approaches in more detail Participated in national and global discussions with regulators and other stakeholders on what future remuneration structures and reporting should look like Undertook an initial review of the approach to determining performance awards for executive directors and enhanced disclosure of how performance award decisions are reported Enhanced the Groups claw-back policy to strengthen compliance with the Financial Services Authoritys FSA rules Reviewed the effectiveness of the new share plan and associated performance conditions Corporate governance 163 2012 Group variable compensation pool TVC comprises both discretionary APAs which may be in the Total remuneration is typically delivered via a combination of form of cash or shares and performance shares.
TVC spend is base salary and bene ts plus variable compensation.
Consistent calculated after suf cient pro t has been accrued to accord with our pay for performance culture, our annual performance shareholders an appropriate risk-ad justed return and in the awards APAs and variable incentives play an integral role in context of the forwardlooking capital plan.
See page 178 enabling us to recognise and reward superior performance for more detail.
The Committee also considers as part of its and behaviour that support our values.
deliberations on the aggregate TVC pool fact ors such as returns to investors, external sentiment on remuneration and achievement relative topeers.
Income statement charge for the approved total variable compensation pool audited 2012 2011 $million $million Annual performance awards 1,364 1,477 1 Non-deferred cash awards 1,105 1,166 Deferred cash and share awards 259 311 2 Other longterm incentive awards 61 58 Total approved variable compensation pool 1, 425 1, 535 3 Less: deferral of charge for amounts awarded for current year 233 255 Plus: current year charge for amounts deferred from prior years 255 203 Income statement charge for variable compensation 1, 447 1, 483 Actual Expected 2014 and 2011 2012 2013 beyond 4 Year in which income statement is expected to re ect deferred variable compensation $million $million $million $million Variable compensation deferred from 2010 and earlier 203 136 67 10 Variable compensation deferred from 2011 100 119 90 70 Variable compensation deferred from 2012 87 10 2 131 Total 303 341 259 211 1 This includes up-front shares delivered to designated code staff employees under the FSAs Remuneration Code 2 This includes the expected value of performance share awards 3 In line with best practice guidance, the vesting period for deferred awards granted in 2012 and 2013 in respect of the 2011 and 2012 performance years respectively was determined to have started on 1 January 2011 and 2012 respectively with the charge recognised from that date 4 Based on International Finance Reporting Standards 2 IFRS 2 164 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Performance and reward outcomes for executivedirectors Each executive director has documented objectives that are presented to the Committee at the start of the financial year and assessed at the year-end.
These objectives are based on a broad range of factors including both financial and nonfinancial measures.
The importance of each executive directors individual performance and that of Standard Chartered as a determinant in their compensation is re ected in the variation of APAs made in recent years.
Comparisons with market compensation are typically made against our international banking peers and the FTSE 20.
These two groupings have business characteristics, such as an international scope of operations, complexity and size that are similar to ours, representing organisations with which we compete for talent.
Total compensation for each executive director is structured to provide an appropriate mix of xed versus variable compensation with the potential to earn upperquartile total compensation relative to peers for upper-quar tile performance.
Process In 2012, the following process was trialled : 1 Performance management Group objectives were determined and aligned to the Groups strategic goals.
Each executive director agreed with the Group Chief Executive individual priorities around the Group objectives according to the business in which the executive director works and their role.
The Group Chie f Executive agreed his objectives with the Chairman.
Objective setting Interim review Final review January February July December January Personal objectives agreed with manager Mid-year discussion Self appraisals prepared and performance Objectives shared with the Committee on performance discussion held with manager In addition, collective agendas were shared todate against Group Chief Executive Chairman provided with the Committee that were aligned to objectives the Committee with performance updates Groups strategic goals and also re ected on both delivery against objectives and function, geography or business priorities also on conduct and behaviours Objectives cover quanti able financial as Feedback from Risk and other control well as rolebased metrics functions was taken int o account 2 Compensation outcomes Set out below is the process the Committee went through this year in trialling the new framework referred to under target APAs and base salaries.
Step 1: Eligibility for an award Step 2: Initial determination ofawards Prior to any APA decisions being made for the executive The Committee considered the headline Group financial directors, the Committee considered whether i the performance together with the progress against the Groups financial performance in 2012 had been achieved collective agenda, and how this might, all other things within the Groups risk appetite: and ii in light of the Groups being equal, translate into an award outcome current and forwardlooking capital position, there was anything that should prevent the Committee from Step 3: Finalising individual awards approving any awards Award levels were then differentiated based on personal In relation to each individual executive director, the and relevant business performance, individual conduct Committee then considered i whether he had achieved a and behaviour, as well as other individual circumstances minimum standard in terms of living the Groups values and such as market competitiveness associated behaviours: and ii whether the level of financial The Committee shared the recommendations with other performance achieved in his particular area of responsibility non-executive directors warranted payment of any APA Corporate governance 165 Target APAs and base salaries Step 2 Initial determination of awards Executive directors have target annual performance awards In assessing the Groups broader financial and nonfinancial TAPAs that are set with reference to the nature of the role and performance in aggregate under the framework, the Committee the desired balance between xed and variable remuneration.
noted the following achievements: The Committee reviewed its approach to determining executive Financial performance in 2012 was good, even after directors APAs during 2012.
This involved trialling a new taking into account the cost of the settlements with the framework w ith a view to developing a more transparent and US authorities.
Income grew by 8 per cent, with growth in explicit link between the TAPA and levels of financial both businesses.
Costs were carefully managed through tight performance and achievements against the Groups collective discipline and investment prioritisation agenda.
Drawing on its experience during this review, the Maintained strong focus on the fundamentals of the business Committee proposes to develop a refreshed framework in 2013 during 2012 strong capital and liquidity positions.
The Core that will take account of developing regulatory requirements Tier 1 capital ratio at 11.7 per cent, improved from 2011 and particularly in the European Union EU, and will be subject to the advances-to-deposits ratio continues to be healthy at engagement with shareholders.
As part of developing this 74.1p er cent framework, the Committee will review selective target award levels to ascertain if further changes are appropriate.
Dividend per share improved 10.5 per cent.
The normalised return on ordinary shareholders equity improved to 12.8 per The TAPAs and base salaries of executive directors agreed by cent 2011: 12.2 per cent.
Total Shareholder Return continues the Committee for the 2013 performance year subject to the to rank very strongly relative to international peers over a development of the refreshed framework and EU regulatory threeyear and fiveyear period albeit performance over a requirements are shown in the table below.
oneyear period is less strong Yearend decisions on total variable compensation Very good progress was made on the Groups collective The Committee followed a three-s tep process for determining agenda by remaining disciplined in the execution of its APA s. strategy, deepening its client and customer relationships, building on its strong brand and franchise.
Both businesses Step 1 Eligibility for an award have had notable successes in the use of technology to The Committee concluded that, for the executive directors as a provide innovative solutions for customers including in Hong whole, the Groups financial performance had been achieved Kong, Breeze Home Asias first property search application within the Groups risk appetite and, from a forwardlooking Employee engagement scores increased again from a capital position, there was nothing that prevented the Committee grand mean of 4.23 to 4.26.
Exceptional progress against from approving any awards.
In addition, each executive director our target to raise $100m for Seeing is Believing with more had achieved a minimum standard in terms of living the Groups than half of this already achieved.
Employee volunteering values and there was no reason why the financial performance increased 30p er cent year-onyear to more than 85,000 in any part of the Group should prevent payment of any APA.
His existing GBP salary has been converted using an average exchange rate for 2012 166 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Step 3 Finalising individual awards Jaspal Bindra: In contrast to the respective heads of CB The combination of Group, business and individual performance and WB whose compensation is more directly linked to assessment is re ected in both the APA and in the absolute level their respective business and therefore inclined to uctuate of performance shares, which together comprise TVC.
signi cantly yearonyear based on performance, movement in variable compensation for the governance heads tends The following brief commentary gives some additional insight to be less volatile, linked to broader and sustained Group into the decisions made by the Committee.
Jaspals TVC is down by 3 per cent year-on-year.
Peter Sands: As Group Chief Executive Of cer, Peter has There were good performances in China, Indonesia and Hong led the Group to its tenth year of record income and pro ts.
Kong, one of the Groups largest markets, where operating During 2012, the Group made very good progress against pro t rose by 7 per cent, against weaker yearonyear its collective agenda with a focus on embedding Here for performance in India and Singapore.
In terms of nonfinancial good in the businesses and deepening client and customer measures, Jaspal, amongst other things, personally oversaw relationships.
Peters total compensation is set in the context the Groups diversity and inclusion agenda in 2012, which of Group operating income and normalised earnings per share made good progress growth of 8 and 14 per cent respectively, although pro t V Shankar: There was strong underlying growth across growth was impacted by the cost of the settlements Shankars region with good performances in Africa witht he US authorities.
T VC decreased by 10 per cent as a operating pro t up 23 p er cent, and Americas, UK & Europe consequence of a lower APA and performance share grant, where operating income grew by 30 per cent against weaker both of which are down 10 per cent yearonyear yearonyear performance in the Middle East and North Africa, Richard Meddings: Richard continued to provide strong where the ongoing regional unrest has suppressed management of the Groups capital and liquidity position con dence and contained overall economic activity.
Since and enforced tight discipline on costs during 2012.
In addition moving out of WB and taking on his existing governance to his core role, Richard led the Groups Seeing is Believing portfolio, the Committee has been resetting as well as initiatives, which raised a further $8m in 2012.
Similar to the rebalancing Shankars compensation rationale for Peter Sands, his TVC was down 10 per cent The Committee believes that these TVC outcomes strike the yearonyear as a result of a lower APA and a performance right balance in aligning reward with the Groups overall pro t share grant, both of which are down 10 per cent performance both in absolute and relative terms, income Steve Bertamini: A good performance by Consumer growth, risk management and, in particular, returns to Banking CB against the collective agenda the Group won shareholders.
The Committee also believes that the individual a number of awards in the digital space.
Our next generation recommendations appropriately reward contribution to the markets are performing well and innovation has enabled us to financial performance of the Group and the Groups collective meet customer needs better, for example through turnaround agenda and take appropriate account of personal performance against a range of nonfinancial metrics.
In terms of nancials, headline pro ts grew by 8 per cent.
However, underlying pro t fell by 1 per cent.
Steves TVCd ecreased by 7 per cent Mike Rees: A strong performance in challenging market conditions by Wholesale Banking WB where income grew by 9 per cent in 2012 and, excluding the impact of the cost of the settlements with the US authorities, pro t by 11 per cent.
I n 2012, there was good progress on a number of nonfinancial priorities, for example, we strengthened our support on the internationalisation of the renminbi globally and re ned our client coverage model to further deepen relationships.
Steve Bertamini and Jaspal Bindra carry out their executive duties in a host country location and are eligible for allowances that cover the cost of accommodation and education of dependent children.
In addition, their contracts of employment provide for adjustments for cost of living and tax neutralisation such that their net pay is the same as if they were to remain in their respective home countries 2 In 2012, a contract settlement of $213,244 was made with UK HM Revenue and Customs for an internal error in respect of the calculation of taxation and national insurance contributions due on the company car bene t received by Peter Sands between 2006 and 2012 3 Amounts shown in the bene ts column will vary yearonyear where tax equalisation is applicable dependent upon the timing of the taxation payments.
Actual amounts paid each year can vary even though there is no change in the underlying level of remuneration.
One consequence of this fact is that the bene ts gure for Steve Bertamini increased by $ 110,689 and for Jaspal Bindra by $319,933 for 2012 4 With effect from 1 January 2012, V Shankar was appointed as a Group executive director 5 The amounts shown in the up-front shares column includes the proportion of APA that is not deferred but is required under the FSA Remuneration Code to be delivered in shares.
This portion equates to 20 per cent of the total APA for each executive director.
The amount shown is the gross amount and the net amount post any withholding taxation requirements has been transferred to a trust and used to acquire shares that are bene cially allocated to the employee 6 The amounts shown in the deferred bonus column include the proportion of the APA deferred into restricted shares or deferred cash 7 The expected value of any performance share award is based on an initial value adjusted for factors such as performance conditions, forfeiture risk and lack of dividends 8 Steve Bertamini and V Shankar received cash pension allowances of $387,499 2011: $341,246 and $348,489 and this is re ected above, as part of salary fees 9 In 2011, Jaspal Bindra waived $249,231 of the cash element of his APA into his pension arrangement.
In 2012, Jaspal waived $764,422 2011: $711,912 of his base salary into his pension arrangement 168 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Retirement bene ts CEO compensation versus total shareholder Executive directors appointed prior to 1 January 2012, who return and operating profit have been building up pension bene ts on a fide ned bene t 319 314 basis, retain their accrued entitlements and may continue to % build up bene ts in their existing arrangements, with the 284 300 267 Committee continuing to take into account the value of such 275 239 bene ts as part of total compensation.
Since 1 January 2012, 231 250 224 212 those with a fide ned bene t promise have had the option to give 236 195 189 up part or all of their future pension accrual and have it replaced 187 187 177 200 168 with an individually costed pension allowance.
This allowance 161 146 142 has been determined on a costneutral basis to the Group, 170 150 150 166 re ecting the level of bene t given up and the individual 108 147 125 124 executive directors age as at 1 January 2012.
To date, no 104 100 executive director has elected to switch to a cash supplement in full or part.
50 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Executive directors retain any existing opportunity to waive CEO pay index Operating profit index TSR index a proportion of the cash element of any potential APA or their annual base salary to enhance their unapproved retirement bene ts.
Any amounts waived in respect of this year are shown in the executive directors retirement bene ts table.
The graph below illustrates the Groups total shareholder return TSR position against the relative comparator group for fide ned bene t pension provision continues to be made performance share awards vesting between 2008 and 2013. through a combination of the Standard Chartered Pension In relation to the performance share awards granted in 2010 Fund, an approved non-contributory plan, and an unapproved and that vest depending on performance over three years retirement bene t plan.
The unapproved plan is unfunded and ending 31 December 2012, half the award was dependent the bene ts accrued are secured by a charge, in the name of upon our TSR performance compared with a fide ned peer an independent trustee, over speci c assets.
The unapproved group and the balance was subject to earnings per share EPS unfunded retirement bene t plan provides the part of the performance.
The Committee reviewed the performance executives bene t that exceeds the UK Governments lifetime measures and the total that vested was 94.17 per cent formed allowance.
In other respects the terms of the unapproved plan of 44.17 per cent for TSR and 50 per cent for EPS.
are designed to mirror the provisions of the Standard Chartered Pension Fund.
Upon the death in service of an executive director, bene ts are available to a spouse and dependent children in a lump sum form.
Assessing TSR performance under the performance share plan Steve Bertamini and V Shankar have pension allowances equal to 40per cent of base salary.
% TSR growth 150 2nd Alignment of performance and reward 100 The graph above shows a comparison of the overall company 1st 1st 6th 92.8% performance in a particular year and the annual pay of the 50 34.6% 34.8% 6.99% 6th relevant CEO including salary, bene ts, annual performance 0 award and the expected value of any performance share award.
Rank Rank Rank Rank Rank 17.0% 6 15 1 15 1 15 2 21 6 21 The CEOs total remuneration is aligned to the disclosures in the 50 relevant directors remuneration report meaning that the awards that have been granted in a particular year have been included 100 06-08 07-09 08-10 09-11 10-12 Performance period rather than those that are vesting.
Standard Chartered TSR position in comparator group Comparator group TSR performance range with Standard Chartered actual performance Corporate governance 169 The graph on the right shows our TSR performance on a Percentage change in TSR over a five-year period cumulative basis over the last five years alongside that of the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparison group % against which our shareholders may measure their relative 150 returns.
Standard Chartered is a constituent member of the 122.55 118.96 105.05 102.97 FTSE 100 Index and the London Stock Exchange is the principal 110.56 exchange for our shares.
For illustrative purposes we have also 102.78 100 100.53 71.67 91.25 shown our TSR performance against the peer banks that were 55.68 part of our performance share award comparator group in a 67.00 64.37 62.04 50 50.09 46.95 particular year.
0 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Data provided by Thomson Reuters Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Comparator median Executive directors contracts of employment Effective date Notice period from the Company Potential payment in lieu of notice P A Sands 31 December 2003 S P Bertamini 22 April 2008 12 months base salary, pension contributions entitlement and certain bene ts and J S Bindra 1 March 2008 12 months allowances such as life assurance and car R H Meddings 12 December 2003 allowance.
Any annual performance award payable is determined by the Committee.
A M G Rees 7 January 2010 V Shankar 14 April 2010 Details of non-executive directorships held by the executive directors Certain executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Details of these directorships are contained on pages 125 to 128.
The executive directors are permitted to hold a maximum of one non-executive directorship with a listed company on the basis that there is no con ict of interest.
Details of non-executive fees of the executive directors are shown below.
Name Organisation Current annual fee retained by the executive director P A Sands The Institute of International Finance, inc The Department of Health J S Bindra Vital Voices Global Partnership R H Meddings 3i Group Plc GBP 80,000 V Shankar Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC USD 300,000 Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore SG D 22,500 170 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Reward arrangements for the Chairman and Chairmans remuneration non-executive directors Sir Johns contract effective 2 July 2009 and last amended on The non-executive directors are appointed for a period of 1March 2011 contains a 12 month notice period.
one year unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of Sir Johns compensation as Chairman comprises two key either party upon giving three months written notice.
H e receives an annual base fee, part delivered in cash appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject $1,029,925 650,000 and part delivered in restricted shares to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and 500,000 granted in two equal tranches annually.
This structure to the usual re election by the shareholders of the Company.
aligns his interests with those of shareholders and demonstrates the Chairmans commitment and con dence in our future.
This is Non-executive directors remuneration Sir Johns primary employment where his duties take priority over Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the any existing or new outside interests.
The arrangements ensure Chairman and were last reviewed in March 2011.
Fees are set to that Sir John is appropriately compensated for his contribution re ect the international nature of the roles, the experience of the and re ects the increased demands placed on the Chairmans individuals required to ll those roles and the time commitment role over recent years.
This is expected to continue in the expected of them.
Sir John is also entitled to a car and driver, Fees are paid in GBP and are non-pensionable.
UKbased which he does not currently utilise, and is provided with non-executive directors are able to take up to 100 per cent private healthcare.
He is not eligible to receive discretionary of their monthly post-tax base fees to acquire shares in performance share awards or to participate in either our annual Standard Chartered.
Non-executive directors have no service performance award or retirement plans.
There are no additional contract and do not participate in any performance related fees for membership of any board committees.
Remuneration of Group Chairman and non-executive directors audited Current Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Annual Fee 1,050 30 100 Chair 65 65 N A 50 50 No fees Committee Member 30 30 15 25 25 No fees Fees for 2012 $000 $000 $000 Chairman Sir John Peace C C M M C 3 1,834 1,820 Non-executive directors R Delbridge M M M 254 256 J F T Dundas M M C M M 372 377 1 M Ewing M M 34 V F Gooding M M M 238 240 S J Lowth M M 206 168 R H P Markham SID M C M M M 380 385 R Markland MMMM C 357 361 J G H Paynter M M M 246 248 Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE M M 179 377 318 P D Skinner M MMM C 349 353 O H J Stocken M M 206 208 1 Dr L H Thunell M 26 1 Dr Lars Henrik Thunell and Mrs Margaret Ewing were appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors from 1 November 2012 C: Chair: M: Committee member: SID: Senior Independent Director Chairman Senior Independent Director Board Member Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Brand and Values Committee Governance Committee Bene ts Total 2012 Total 2011 Corporate governance 171 Our approach: Policy report: a forward-looking statementon our performance Supports a strong performance-oriented culture, ensuring that individual reward and incentives are aligned with: and reward practices i t he performance and behaviour of the individual: ii the performance of the business: and iii the interests of Our approach to performance and reward for shareholders executive directors Our performance, reward and bene ts approach supports and Ensures a competitive reward package that re ects our drives our business strategy and reinforces our values in the international nature and enables us to attract, retain and context of a clearly articulated risk appetite and a Group-wide motivate our employees framework, under which we apply a consistent approach to Re ects the fact that many of our employees bring reward for all employees.
international experience and expertise and that we recruit from a global marketplace Encourages an appropriate mix of xed and variable compensation based on i the individuals accountability and ii the individuals and business risk pro le The table below summarises the Groups key remuneration policies and structures for executive directors as they were applied during 2012 and are intended to be applied in 2013.
Remuneration policies and structures Purpose and link tostrategy Operation Performance metrics Other information Base salary To attract and retain Cash None, although the Set at an talent by ensuring that Typically only base pay element overall performance of appropriate level salaries are competitive is pensionable the individual is one of taking in to with the relevant market Reviewed annually and only the considerations consideration the in which the individual is amended as appropriate taking when determining size and scope of employed account of the latest available salary increases the role, the To ensure that xed market data.
Off-cycle reviews individual s skills, compensation is take place where there is a experience and positioning suf cient to allow a truly particular need to ensure market exible variable competitiveness against peers The Group compensation policy adopts a prudent approach to increases in xed compensation across the Group 172 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policies and structures continued Purpose and link tostrategy Operation Performance metrics Other information Pensions Core bene ts are Normally includes pension, No performance Reviewed and bene ts provided to support medical insurance, life conditions periodically taking and be consistent assurancea nd annual leave account of local with our values Three-year savings contract with regulations and competitive Sharesave is provided an option price set at a discount to engage employees of up to 20 per cent to the share market practice Where there are including executive price at the date of invitation directors in our Within a period of six months securities laws, after the relevant anniversary, regulatory or performance and offer them an opportunity for employees may exercise the other similar long-term savings and a option and purchase shares issues, we share in the financial may offer an success that they help equivalent to create cash plan Annual To focus executive Awards are delivered in Annual performance A maximum casha nd share components awards are based on both performance directors on the opportunity of award achievement of annual up-fronta nd deferred business and individual no more than objectives, which Awards in excess of $50,000 performance 250 p er cent of alignour short-term are subject to our deferral Each individual has each executive performance with the framework, overlaid by any documented objectives directors target sustainable creation higher deferral requirements that are agreed at the start performance ofshareholder value of local regulators of the financial year and award level To provide a portion Deferred shares and deferred assessed at the year-end.
150 per cent of total reward that is cash vest in equal tranches in the case of These are based on a performance related after one, two and three years, broad range of factors Mike Rees To ensure that the subject to claw-back Deferral levels including both financial proportion of variable Half of any non-deferred and nonfinancial are reviewed compensation annual performance award for measures annually, taking opportunity which an executive director will be Values, conduct and into account might be delivered delivered in the form of shares behaviour are also both regulatory through a cash award Executive directors may only assessed at the year-end requirements and and deferred shares sell up-front shares and vested market practice cash increases with deferred shares if share holding accountability requirement isalready satis ed Corporate governance 173 Purpose and link tostrategy Operation Performance metrics Other information Performance Performance To focus participants on Award of nil-cost options subject The Committee reviews share award meeting and exceeding to a threeyear performance the performance share awards for executive our long-term period, exercisable after the conditions annually.
For performance targets, third, but before the tenth awards granted in 2013, directors are currently limited which are linked to anniversary of the date of the conditions are safeguarding grant, subject to continued explained from page 175 to an overall Awards are entirely maximum shareholder interests employment and performance To align the interests conditions being met over the discretionary and are amount of 400 first three years based on individual per cent of base ofexecutive directors with shareholders by Awards are subject to claw-back performance and salary in face Part of the total reward package contribution to longvalue terms ensuring that they buildand retain an for executive directors term value creation appropriate equity Awards are subject to stake in the Group performance weighting split equally onethird of the award depending on the achievement of total shareholder return, earnings per share and return on riskweighted assets.
Each is assessed independently of one another supporting a balanced scorecard approach through equal focus upon financial measures, investor interests and prudent riskt aking 174 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors service contracts and terminations The Groups share plans have speci c provisions, known as For all executive directors, the notice period from the Company good leaver p rovisions, setting out the treatment of awards is 12 months.
where an employee leaves for designated reasons.
The plans also contain general discretionary provisions under which the Contracts for executive directors contain payment in lieu Board can decide to apply good leaver statu s in certain of notice PILON provisions that can be exercised at the cases where awards would usually be forfeited on cessation Committees discretion.
The PILON provisions comprise an of employment.
The Committee has the discretion to apply amount equal to 12 months base salary, pension contributions good leaver status to executive directors.
entitlement and certain bene ts and allowances such as life assurance and car allowance.
A PAs payable as part of PILON Hiring new executive directors are determined by the Committee, after taking into consideration The Group prides itself on a robust hiring process for executive the performance of both the individual and Standard Chartered.
directors and senior management, particularly on establishing Payments under PILON are made in quarterly instalments and the potential t of a new employee with the Groups culture and are subject to mitigation.
The Committee is responsible for approving For existing executive directors only, special provisions apply the remuneration package for any new executive directors.
in the event that Standard Chartered terminates an executive When hiring a new executive director, it may be necessary to directors contract in the 12 months following a change of control compensate for forfeited remuneration from the individuals without giving notice.
Unless the executive director has been previous employer through a buyout.
Buyouts are typically summarily dismissed or is serving out their notice, an amount delivered in the form of restricted shares or performance equal to 12 months base salary, A PA, pension contributions shares.
The Group looks to replicate the arrangements being entitlement and certain bene ts and allowances will be paid in bought out as closely as is reasonably possible.
In respect of the 12 months following the date of termination, a n award equivalent to the executive The Committee recognises that the use of guaranteed variable directors TAPA is payable.
The A PA payable in respect remuneration remains important in securing key senior talent, of the performance period prior to termination is decided by albeit it acknowledges that there is a need for appropriate the Committee, taking into account both the performance safeguards on how it is composed and delivered.
Steps are of the individual and Standard Chartered.
A pro-rata ta rget taken to ensure that the remuneration is not unreasonably award is payable if this period is less than six months.
generous in either its amount or terms including any deferral or retention periods than the variable remuneration awarded or Leaver provisions for share plans offered by the individuals previous employer in a similar role.
When an executive director ceases employment, unless Any guarantee is subject to the prevailing deferral mechanism classi ed as an eligible leaver, any unvested share awards and claw-back policy.
For an eligible leaver, deferred APAs and The Group operates a policy of tax equalisation for internationally performance share awards granted as part of TVC will normally mobile employees.
Tax equalisation is a common approach continue to vest over the original vesting period subject to used by many organisations and is often used where employees i there being no breach of relevant non-compete and non-solicit move around and live in different geographies so that the conditions: ii the Groups claw-back policy: and iii performance employee pays no more or less than they would have paid in conditions being satis ed.
their home geography and appropriate tax is paid in the Restricted share awards granted as incentives or for retention jurisdictions where the employee lives and works.
will normally be subject to the original vesting schedule, vesting Newly appointed executive directors are provided with a pension on a pro-rated basis according to the period of time from the allowance equal to 40 per cent of their base salary to fund date of grant to the date of cessation of employment subject to personal pension arrangements.
The process and methodology the achievement of performance conditions.
by which this gure was determined was set out in the 2011 Directors remuneration report.
Corporate governance 175 Awards made Awards Group Share Plans in 2011 and made in 1 1, 2 TSR comparators going forward 2010 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan Approved by shareholders in May 2011 this is the Groups Banco Santander main share plan, applicable to all employees including executive Bank of America directors with the exibility to provide a variety of award types.
Bank of China The 2011 Plan is designed to deliver performance shares, deferred awards and restricted shares, giving us suf cient Bank of East Asia exibility to meet the challenges of the changing regulatory and Barclays competitive environment.
Discretionary share awards are a key part of both executive directors and senior managements Citigroup variable compensation and their signi cance as a proportion of Credit Suisse potential total remuneration is one of the strongest indicators of DBS Group our commitment to pay for sustainable performance ensuring that there is an appropriate return for the risk taken and that the Deutsche Bank measure is aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
HSBC Performance share awards ICBC Awards vest after a threeyear period and are subject to three ICICI equally weighted performance measures: Total Shareholder JP Morgan Chase Return TSR, Earnings per Share EPS and Return on Risk Weighted Assets RoRWA.
Kookmin Oversea Chine se Banking Corporation Total shareholder return element Royal Bank of Scotland Relative TSR, which measures the growth in share price plus dividends paid to shareholders, is recognised as one of the Socit Gnrale best indicators as to whether shareholders have achieved a Standard Bank good return investing in a speci c company relative to a basket of similar companies or a single index.
State Bank of India The constituents of our comparison peer group for awards Uni Credito made in 2010 under the 2001 Performance Share Plan and from United Overseas Bank 2011 under the 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan are set out Standard Chartered in the table opposite.
For awards granted from 2011, the Group changed the way it calculates the TSR ranking to be better 1 The percentage of the award that employees receive at the end of the aligned to market practice and excludes Standard Chartered relevant threeyear performance period depends on where the Group is when calculating the position of comparators.
ranked against its comparators TSR performance.
Minimum vesting is achieved if we are ranked median, with full vesting if we are ranked in the Standard Chartereds TSR is positioned within the comparator upper quintile of our comparison group.
Straight-line vesting applies group to determine what proportion of the award should vest.
between the two vesting points TSR performance is measured using a local currency approach.
2 Awards made in 2010 were granted under the 2001 Performance Share Plan This re ects the international composition of the Group, but also takes into account that a signi cant proportion of each companys pro t is generated in the same currency as its primary listing.
This approach measures the real impact for a shareholder by focusing on relative share movement rather than taking into account exchange rate uctuations.
176 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Earnings per share element requirements relating to deferral levels can be met.
Deferred The Committee considers that EPS is an appropriate measure awards are not subject to any further performance criteria, of our underlying financial performance.
although the claw-back policy will apply.
Further details on deferred awards can be found on page 172.
Onethird of the award will be subject to the Groups growth in normalised EPS over the threeyear performance period.
The Restricted shares percentage of the award that vests is normally exercisable at Awards that are made outside of the annual performance the end of the relevant three-year performance period and is process, as additional incentive or retention mechanisms, asf ollows: are normally provided as restricted shares under the 2011 Percentage of award subject Plan.
These awards vest in equal instalments on the second Increase in EPS over the base EPS to EPS measure exercisable and third anniversaries of the award date.
In line with similar Less than 15 per cent Nil schemes operated by our competitors, our existing restricted share awards are not subject to an annual limit and do not have 15 per cent 30 any performance conditions.
Executive directors would not 15 to 30 per cent More than 30 but less than 100 normally receive such awards other than in exceptional calculated on a straight line basis circumstances such as part of a buyout on joining.
More than 30 per cent 100 Dilution limits All awards vesting under the Groups share plans are satis ed Return on risk weighted assets element by the transfer of existing shares or, where appropriate, the Onethird of awards will be subject to RoRWA over three issuance of new shares.
Our share plans contain monitored financial years calculated by reference to the threeyear average limits that govern both the aggregate amount of awards that normalised post-tax earnings over the average of Risk Weighted may be granted and the amount of shares that may be issued Assets RWA over that period.
to satisfy any subsequent exercise of awards.
These limits are Earnings in Y1 Earnings in Y2 Earnings in Y3 3 in line with those stated in the Association of British Insurers principles of remuneration and the terms of our listing on the end of Y0 RWA end of Y1 RWA end of Y2 RWA end of Y3 RWA 4 Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
30 per cent of this portion of the award will vest for minimum Employee bene t trusts threshold performance with 100 per cent vesting for higher The Group has two employee bene t trusts that are performance.
For awards granted since 2011, th reshold administered by an independent trustee and that hold ordinary vesting will occur for a RoRWA of 1.5 per cent with maximum shares to meet various obligations under the Groups share vesting occurring for a RoRWA outcome of 1.7 per cent.
plans see page 256 in the notes to the financial statements.
As RoRWA is a key indicator of the Group that is already used to each executive director is within the class of bene ciary of these calculate capital adequacy.
This performance measure takes trusts, they are deemed, for the purposes of the Companies Act into account not only the return on assets but also risk adjusts 2006, to have an interest in the trusts shares.
the assets by looking at credit, operational, and market risk.
RoRWA is a check on inappropriate pursuit of income, Vesting provisions on a change of control rewarding as much for prudent capital management as Performance shares do not automatically vest in the event of a pursuing financial management.
However, the rules do provide that the number of shares subject to the award be pro-rated based on the length The Committee may review RoRWA performance prior to of the shortened performance period.
The Committee may, at vesting of awards and, if appropriate, adjust for the impact of its discretion and acting fairly and reasonably, determine items under the RoRWA measure that, in its view, is not an the extent to which awards vest having taken into account accurate re ection of the underlying financial performance of Standard Chartereds performance since the date of grant.
General Deferred awards The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of Deferral levels have increased in recent years in response to business on 31 December 2012 wa s 1,573.50 pence.
The share both FSA requirements and to stay in line with market practice.
price range over the year was 1,228.50 pence to 1,662.50 pence For the 2012 performance year, elements of the annual per share based on closing middle market prices.
performance plan that are deferred will be delivered under the 2011 Plan.
These awards will be subject to a three-year deferral Unless indicated otherwise, the foreign exchange rates used period, vesting equally onethird on each of the first, second in the Directors remuneration report are based on average rates and third anniversaries.
Under the 2011 Plan there is no annual throughout the relevant financial year.
The rates are maximum limit on deferred awards to ensure that regulatory $1 : GBP0.6311 2012 and $1: G BP0.6239 2011.
Corporate governance 177 Governance and regulatory requirements Benchmarking Standard Chartereds compensation arrangements against emerging regulatory best practice.
Regulatory benchmarking Emerging Regulatory Standard Chartered Practice BestPractice Fixed and variable Fixed remuneration is set to be at a level that is both appropriate for the role and the market as well as compensation balance allowing for truly exible variable remuneration arrangements where, for example, no performance award could be paid There is a single pool from which all discretionary variable compensation irrespective of structure e. g. cash, deferred shares, performance shares is funded Remuneration policy Risk management is core to all business decisions across the Group and we have a robust process for supporting effective risk ensuring that compensation decisions take risk into account management processes Rewarding for Employees are assessed and rewarded on performance against objectives and adherence to Group performance and values.
Those individuals modelling our values typically receive an uplift of up to 20 per cent over target adherence to values variable compensation compared with those who demonstrate the values less frequently A claw-back policy on deferred variable compensation that can be activated by inappropriate behaviours and non-adherence to Group values Strong, fide ned link Variable compensation for senior management is driven by collective and individual objectives that are between remuneration clearly linked to the achievement of business objectives consistent with the Groups risk appetite and strategy Risk and performance The use of a robust riskadjusted pro t metric that takes into account regulatory capital, credit and alignment market risk in the formulation of performance award pools Claw-back can be applied on deferred and performance awards prior to vesting The Groups share plan uses a risk based performance condition to ensure it is aligned to risk The three-year vesting period for share awards is consistent with the tenor of the Groups banking book.
For example, within Wholesale Banking, at least 62 per cent of loans and advances are short term one year in nature Meaningful levels of A Group-w ide deferral framework with a top rate of 60 per cent deferral of TVC applies to all deferral for variable employees compensation All employees are subject to the higher of any regulatory deferral requirements and the Group deferral framework Strong internal The Committee oversees all material variable compensation plan spend and reviews the remuneration governance process of the most highly paid and those subject to FSA deferral requirements The Group Chief Risk Of cer attends key Committee meetings Control function variable compensation pools are managed separately from the businesses they control A comprehensive set of reward plan committees provide rigorous challenge of variable compensation decisions and allocation of pools Control functions provide input into reward plan committees on any control issues positive or negative that should in uence compensation and claw-back decisions 178 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Supporting risk management through our sentiment on banking compensation and emerging market remuneration practices intelligence on competitor practice.
Effective risk management is fundamental to building The Committee then uses this information and exercises sustainable performance and is the central tenet of the financial discretion to determine the final pool and approve allocations and operational management of the Group.
The Risk function to business and support functions.
In arriving at its decision it ensures management of risk throughout the Group via a robust looks at the proposed aggregate payouts relative to both trading and rigorous Risk Management Framework.
Risk appetite is set pro t and riskadjusted pro t notably risk capitaladjusted pro t in the context of the Groups strategy and the annual Strategy RCAP.
The Committee is also informed by the underlying Board meeting sets strategic goals that are translated into funding frameworks for individual pools and has oversight for financial and business targets and, ultimately, to employees the allocation of the overall Group pool across businesses.
The Board also remains involved in all material decisions made regarding performance and reward.
The GRPC is responsible for allocating the approved pools to each businessspeci c reward plan committee RPC, which Since performance against these objectives is a signi cant then oversees the allocation of variable compensation spend factor in the determination of an individuals APA, employees are within its areas.
All of our Wholesale Banking and Consumer required to ensure the effective management of risks within the Banking discretionary variable compensation are delivered scope of their direct organisational responsibilities.
The Committee reviews the Groups performance and reward policy on a regular basis against signi cant regulatory Governance of reward committees developments in our markets, market practice and shareholder Reward plan committees play an important role in ensuring that expectations.
As part of its review process the Committee compliance and control environment matters are appropriately receives the following input from Risk: taken into account in performance award decision-making.
In 2012, we have further strengthened this governance approach The Group Chief Risk Of cer GCRO attends key by establishing a committee for support functions in addition Committee meetings that approve pools to those that already exist within the Wholesale and Consumer All plan committees are constituted with crossfunctional Banking businesses and the Risk function.
RPCs consider representation and are typically chaired by the representative such compliance and control matters in relation to both the from a control function for example risk or compliance distribution of the allocated pool and in respect of individual employee performance award decisions.
A sub-committee Plan committees oversee the formation and allocation of of the GRPC has also been established with the objective of award pools taking all risk issues into consideration achieving consistent, fair and appropriate decision-making The Group Reward Plan Committee GRPC is made up of across the Group.
In addition to these responsibilities, RPCs the GCRO, the Group Financ e Directo r, the Group Head of will also review individual awards for key populations, anomalies human resources and Communications and the Group Chie f in award allocation and any highly leveraged awards.
Executive Each business-s peci c RPC involves Risk, Compliance and HR functions in compensation decision making.
For each RPC, Risk Pool funding and Finance representatives jointly oversee the compilation and The Group operates a single discretionary annual performance accuracy of financial data used to underpin award pool funding.
plan comprised of a number of pools.
Reward issues are In addition, the HR function provides independent input to governed on a top down basis and our variable compensation minimise the risk of con icts of interest that might arise.
awards deliberately do not contain any direct formulaic link between business income and individual reward to avoid the To ensure consistency from an overall Group perspective, shortcomings of incentive plans that may not allow important the RPCs are governed by the GRPC.
The GRPC oversees all factors such as the quality of business written and the external reward plans in the Group and ensures that decision making environment to be taken into account.
is in accordance with the Groups established performance and reward philosophy.
The GRPC acts as a link to the Committee Although each performance award pool has an initial funding and will provide feedback to the other RPCs as necessary.
mechanism, the Committee approves the TVC spend, including the amount to be spent on any performance share awards, for the Group taking into account a submission it receives from the GRPC.
The Committee exercises its judgment to ensure that the overall payout appropriately re ects Group performance, the control environment, and any other qualitative factors that it considers appropriate including: performance relative to peers, the latest remuneration guidelines, political and investor Corporate governance 179 Risk adjustment of compensation These levers are used to make ex-a nte risk and performance The Committee views management of TVC in a holistic way, adjustments beginning with the use of RCAP in determining the using a number of levers to determine both the appropriate TVC pool.
In addition, the Committee has agreed a number of size of the variable compensation pool and individual mechanisms to make expost performance adjustments that recommendations taking account of current and future risks provide further alignment to actual performance outcomes to the Group at the time at which compensation decisions see below.
Considerations at the time of award exante Initial pool funding T VC pool determination is based on riskadjusted pro t Validation of the The Committee then reviews the TVC pool and exercises its judgment to ensure that the overall payout TVC pool appropriately re ects Group performance, the control environment, and any other qualitative risk factors that the Committee considers appropriate Adjustments after awards made ex-po st Balance of up-front The Committee considers the balance of cash, deferr al and performance shares to be delivered both anddeferred annual at an aggregate level and at an individual level.
Expost adjustments are only effective if the right performance awards people get the appropriate level of deferrals and performance shares and performance shares In the Group, deferrals start at $50,000.
Up to 1,370 employees are eligible to receive performance shares depending on individual performance Performance adjustment This is achieved through multiple lenses and claw-back Potential diminution in value of deferred award: through share price movement until vesting Claw-back prior to vesting: applied if an individual exhibits inappropriate values or behaviour Claw-back prior to vesting: applied if there is a material event including a restatement, breach of regulatory guidelines or failure in risk management at a Group or business level Potential diminution in value of performance shares: through share price movement as well as subsequent testing of performance conditions More employees are receiving performance shares in 2013 up 30 per cent compared with last year Shareholding The Group operates a shareholding requirement policy to align the interests of its executives with requirements its investors.
We remain committed to the principles of share ownership by executives with an expectation that such employees build up a shareholding over time Employees subject to the FSA Remuneration Code are required to hold a speci ed minimum number of vested ordinary shares, which effectively results in a 12 -month retention period for vested and up-front share awards Directors are subject to a higher test, being the greater of the above requirement or a speci ed number of shares 120,000 and 200,000 shares, for executive directors and the Group Chief Executive respectively 180 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Determining individual variable compensation awards The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to The Group aims to sustain a high performance culture in determine that a whole award may not vest or will only partially which every employee has a clear set of objectives, receives vest.
Such circumstances fide ned as a Material Event ongoing feedback on their performance and behaviour and is may include a material re-statement of the Groups financial appropriately rewarded for their individual contribution.
Further statements, the discovery of endemic problems in financial detail on how individual variable compensation awards for reporting, or where as a result of financial losses a material executive directors are determined can be found on page 164. breach of regulatory guidelines e. g. in relation to capital holdings or liquidity or signi cant failure in risk management at Group or There is no direct formulaic link between business income business unit level has occurred or is likely to occur.
Where the generated by an individual and that individuals reward.
Group financial statements have been subject to a material Differentiating performance and values ratings at all levels restatement or there has been a risk management failure, the enables us to target spend towards those who have made the Committee may also determine that forfeiture is to be restricted most effective contribution to the Groups performance and to the award holders in a particular business unit if issues in that unique culture, recognises and aids retention of our highest unit alone have been the cause of the restatement or the risk performers and balances this with affordability considerations.
Application of deferrals and claw-back Individual award holders may also forfeit their awards if it is APAs above $50,000 are subject to deferral under the Groups determined that the employee or former employee or group standard framework.
The deferred portion is delivered entirely in of employees has, as a result of an appropriate review, been shares for the majority of employees.
However, those employees deemed to have i caused in full or in part a material loss for with the highest level of deferrals a minimum total deferred APA the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions of $85,000 can elect for 50 per cent of their deferred award to or ii exhibited inappropriate values or behaviour.
be delivered as deferred cash.
All deferred awards, shares and cash, vest equally over three years and remain subject to the Groups claw-back policy.
Vested deferred share and up-front share awards may only be sold if the employee meets any stated minimum shareholding requirement.
The current deferral thresholds are shown in the following table: Annual performance award thresholds $ Percentage deferred 50,000 or less No deferral, paid incash Above 50,000 and equal to 250,000 25 per cent Above 250,000 and equal to 500,000 35 per cent Above 500,000 and equal to 3 million 50 per cent 1 Above 3 million 65 per cent 1 The net deferral rate will be capped at an aggregate deferral of 60 per cent including an expected value of any performance shares Corporate governance 181 Other remuneration disclosures 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan audited Shares held in trust Shares awarded Shares vested Shares held in trust at 1 January 2012 during the period in the period at 31 December 2012 A M G Rees 70,255 70,255 70,255 70,255 1 Market value on date of awards 13 March 2012 1,605 pence 2 Under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, shares were conditionally awarded as part of the executive directors deferred element of their APA.
Mike Rees was granted a final award under the DBP in March 2012 in line with the arrangements put in place to deliver the outstanding deferred elements of his 2009 APA.
The shares are held in an employee bene t trust and automatically vest one year after the date of acquisition.
Their interests represent their holding on appointment 2 153,000 of these shares are subject to a charge from 28 December 2011 The bene cial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-bene cial interests in the Companys shares No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stock, nor the shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares Changes to the directors interests in ordinary shares since December 2012 are detailed in the 2013 Notice of Annual General Meeting 184 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors with fide ned bene t provisions audited Increase in accrued pension net of in ation and waiver Accrued pension $000 Transfer value of accrued pension $000 during 2012 $000 Increase At Increase At At during the At 1 January during 31 December 1 January year net of 31 December 2012 waiver Annual Transfer Executive director 2012 the year 2012 2012 waiver 2012 $000 pension value P A Sands 494 66 584 7,857 2,390 10,658 52 962 1 J S Bindra 216 71 299 3,573 1,098 5,649 1,019 24 461 R H Meddings 466 52 540 8,021 2,012 10,441 39 763 2 A M G Rees 476 62 561 8,388 2,443 11,266 49 1,014 1 Jaspal Bindra made no waiver from his 2012 annual performance award 2011: $249,231 but waived $764,422 of his 2012 base salary 2011: $711,912 to enhance his retirement bene ts 2 The gures at 1 January 2012 for Mike Rees have been restated The accrued pension amounts include bene ts arising from transfer payments received in respect of service with previous employers The increase in the accrued pension net of in ation and waiver during the year is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of 2011 increased by an allowance for in ation of 2.7 per cent 2011: 5.2 per cent and the accrued pension at the end of 2012 excluding any waiver The amounts included in the table above as at 1 January and 31 December 2012 are calculated using the exchange rates at the end of 2012 0.6437 and 2011 0.6161 respectively.
The other entries are calculated using the exchange rates stated earlier in the Directors remuneration report In addition to the amounts identi ed in the table above Standard Chartered made ex-gratia payments of $137,610 2011: $172,539 in retirement bene ts to former executive directors and their dependants Deferred compensation In recognition of the substantial elements of deferred compensation and share awards forfeited when he left his previous employer in 2008, Steve Bertamini participates in a deferred compensation arrangement under which a total of $6,500,000 was initially allocated into an interest bearing account with the option for all or part of the value to be invested in alternative assets at his discretion.
The original allocation in September 2008 together with the accrued interest and investment returns vests in three tranches unless he resigns or is terminated for cause: $3,000,000 after the second, $2,000,000 after the fourth and $1,500,000 after the sixth anniversary of joining.
No further awards are planned.
The second vesting date was reached during the year and $2,653,000 before tax was paid to Steve Bertamini.
Ten highest paid employees beneath the Board The following table sets out, on an anonymised basis, the remuneration of the ten highest paid employees for the year ended 31December 2012 who are not executive directors.
The disclosure is not limited to those discharging executive responsibility PDMRs.
Variable compensation Deferred shares and 1 2,3 Fixed compensation Non-deferred cash Up-front shares Deferred cash performance shares Total Employee $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 1 856 1,711 1,711 2,202 2,954 9,43 4 2 691 1,213 1,213 1,537 2,101 6,755 3 542 1,162 1,162 1,532 1,955 6,35 3 4 542 1,093 1,093 1,427 1,850 6,005 5 599 985 985 1,265 1,688 5,522 6 633 926 926 2,777 5,262 7 689 841 841 2,523 4,894 8 821 805 805 1,017 1,397 4,845 9 473 1,788 1,948 4,20 9 10 542 723 723 2,169 4,15 7 1 Includes base salary, bene ts and allowances paid in respect of 2012 and where appropriate on a pro rata basis for new joiners 2 Part of any APA for an employee designated as Code Staff under the FSA Remuneration Code is delivered in the form of shares including the non-deferred element that must be retained subject to the Groups shar eholding requirement policy 3 Includes the deferred share element of annual performance award, the expected value of any performance shares, and if appropriate any distribution from any carried interest plan paid in 2012 Corporate governance 185 Remuneration of the five highest paid individuals and the remuneration of senior management Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited requirement audited Set out below are details for five individuals including two executive directors whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
$ Five highest Senior Components of remuneration paid management Basic salary, allowances and bene ts in kind 5,426,692 14,232,653 Pension contributions 2,111,373 4,724,755 1 Annual performance awards paid or receivable 30,862,750 25,060,000 Payments made on appointment Compensation for loss of of ce contractual Other Total 38,400,815 44,017,408 Total HKD equivalent 297,878,959 341,447,438 1 Excluding any performance awards or commissions linked to pro ts generated by the individual collectively or with others engaged in similar activities.
Includes the deferred element of any APA For the year ended 31 December 2012, the emoluments of the five highest paid and senior management discharging executive responsibility PDMRs are within the following bands: Number of employees The emoluments were in the following bands: Five highest paid Senior management HKD approx.
18 1 to 7 can be found on our website.
By order of the Board Annemarie Durbin Group Company Secretary 5 March 2013
