Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Report on Directors Remuneration Shareholder Information This report explains the role of the Remuneration Committee, Companys continuing compliance with the Remuneration Code.
the Companys remuneration policies, how they are applied to In the light of this, the Remuneration Policy Statement, including Directors and sets out the Directors remuneration for the year the list of Code Staff, was reviewed again in December 2012, ended 31 December 2012.
The report has been prepared in and the disclosures required to be made under the Remuneration accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Code were approved.
These disclosures are available on the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, Companys website.
the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code, and will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 9 May 2013.
The Remuneration Committee monitors remuneration policies The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the and their outcomes every year but it has not altered the structure Companys members on certain parts of the Report on Directors of Executive Director remuneration since the beginning of 2010.
Remuneration and to state whether in their opinion those parts of The Remuneration Committee has determined that it is the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
appropriate to undertake a formal review of all aspects of Executive Except where indicated, all sections of this report are unaudited.
Director remuneration to apply for 2013 onwards.
This process will be led by Stephen Pull with the support of  LLP executive compensation consultants PwC.
During the review ChAIRMAnS oVeRVIeW major shareholders will be consulted.
This is my fourth and last report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following my appointment as Chairman of the Board The Remuneration Committee notes the new reporting I will be stepping down from the Remuneration Committee requirements being formulated by the UK Governments and Stephen Pull will take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Department for Business Innovation and Skills on the Committee.
Remuneration Reporting Regulations and anticipates reporting under the new disclosure requirements for 2013.
In this report As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, my focus over the we have included a policy table summarising the policies for past four years has been to ensure that the structure of executive Directors remuneration on page 37 and a table of single total remuneration continues to align managements interests with remuneration for the Executive Directors on page 39, as those of shareholders.
The high proportion of Executive Director proposed by the draft regulations.
remuneration that is variable, which is fundamental to the Companys remuneration policy and which is explained below, Definitions used in this report has given the Remuneration Committee significant flexibility to Executive Director means any executive member of the Board: ensure that total remuneration adapts to the more challenging market conditions in which the Company has operated since the Senior Management means those members of the Companys financial crisis.
Executive Director remuneration for 2012 is 32% Executive Committee other than the Executive Directors and the lower than in 2009 compared with a decline in underlying first level of management below that level: operating profit of 26%.
Broker means front office revenue generators: During 2012 we continued dialogue with shareholders, including the small number of shareholders who voted against the 2011 Control Functions means those employees engaged in functions Report on Directors Remuneration.
At the AGM in 2012, proxy such as Compliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations and Risk forms indicated that the Report on Directors Remuneration was Control: and approved by a majority of 89.97% of shareholders voting up from 85.23% in 2011.
Remuneration Code means the Remuneration Code of the FSA.
The Remuneration Committee also undertook the regular tasks ReMuneRAtIon CoMMIttee of reviewing and determining the remuneration of the Chairman Composition and responsibility and of the Executive Directors: reviewing and approving the The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Rupert Robson remuneration of Senior Management: and making awards under throughout 2012.
The other members of the Remuneration the LTIP and determining the performance conditions attached to Committee throughout the year were David Clark, Angela Knight those awards.
Michael Fallon was a member until his resignation as a Director in September 2012 and Roger Perkin In September 2012, the FSA reduced the number of proportionality became a member in July 2012.
All members of the Remuneration tiers in its Remuneration Code from four to three.
The Company Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
and its FSA regulated subsidiaries remain in the lowest category now classified as Proportionality Tier Three and the requirements The Remuneration Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board to which the Company and its FSA regulated subsidiaries are for developing and maintaining formal and transparent policies on subject have not changed significantly.
As required by the remuneration for the Companys employees, the framework in Remuneration Code, the first annual central and independent which that policy is applied, and its cost.
In addition, the review of compliance with policies and procedures for Remuneration Committee regularly reviews remuneration policies remuneration adopted by the Company was undertaken during the to ensure that they continue to be compliant with the relevant first half of 2012.
This work, conducted by  corporate governance and regulatory requirements, including the LLP, the Companys internal auditors, provided the Remuneration Remuneration Code.
Committee with an independent assessment of the level of compliance with the Remuneration Code and supported the conclusions of the Remuneration Committee regarding the 35 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Amongst its other duties, the Remuneration Committee is ReMuneRAtIon PoLICIeS responsible, on behalf of the Board, for: Background reviewing and approving the general principles of the In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys Companys remuneration policies: remuneration policies, the Remuneration Committee takes account of the Companys objective to maximise returns to considering the relationship between incentives and risk: shareholders over the medium to long term, at an acceptable level of risk.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful that the determining the application of the Companys remuneration Companys strategy to achieve that objective is to build a business, policies to the Executive Directors: operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC financial markets internationally with the scale and breadth to deliver reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining strong policies to Senior Management, Brokers and Control Functions: financial management disciplines.
determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and The Remuneration Committee takes into account general practices the Chairman: in the parts of the financial services sector in which the Company operates, and the fact that the majority of the Companys approving the remuneration of Senior Management after competitors are not UK listed companies.
These practices are consultation with the Chief Executive: characterised by high levels of variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that it is in the best approving all share and long term incentive schemes and their interests of the Company and shareholders to pay remuneration application: and in line with market practice in the sectors in which the Company operates.
reviewing and approving the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The Companys remuneration policies, which are set out below, are The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are designed to attract, motivate and retain staff with the necessary available on the Companys website www.
com or skills and experience to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the on request from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the Risk Remuneration Committee by invitation.
The Chairman and the The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the Executive Directors are not permitted to be in attendance when relationship between incentives and risk.
any matter relating to their own remuneration is being discussed.
Details of the Companys key risks and risk management are set The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends Annual out on pages 16 to 21 in the Business Review in this Annual Report.
General Meetings of the Company and is available to answer The majority of transactions are brokered on a Name Passing questions raised by shareholders.
basis where the business acts as agent in arranging the trade.
Commissions earned on these activities are received monthly in Professional advice cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does not During 2012 and subsequently the Remuneration Committee hold principal trading positions.
The business only holds financial received advice from PwC on regulatory developments affecting instruments for identified buyers and sellers in matching trades remuneration and aspects of the remuneration of the Executive which are generally settled within 1-3 days.
The business does not Directors.
PwC were appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
The business does not have valuation issues in measuring its profits.
During 2012 and subsequently  LLP have also provided outsourced internal audit services, tax advice, and The Remuneration Committee has concluded that the Companys other associated services.
remuneration policies reflect the low risk profile of the Company, are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk management, and do not encourage risk taking.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys remuneration policies are consistent with the measures set out in the businesss compliance manuals relating to conflicts of interest.
36 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Policy table The policies which have been applied in respect of Executive Director and Non-executive Director remuneration are summarised in the table below.
This is a high level summary which has been included for the convenience of the reader and should be read in conjunction with other parts of this Report on Directors Remuneration.
The policies set out in this table are those which are currently in practice.
As explained in the Chairmans overview above, the Remuneration Committee is undertaking a wholesale review of policies on Executive Director remuneration during the course of 2013.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Executive Directors Basic pay Provides a reasonable level Reviewed periodically to Market driven and not None of fixed remuneration ensure not significantly subject to amendment out of line with the market every year Benefits and To provide basic benefits but Medical cover and None.
Neither of the None pension otherwise to avoid provision membership of a defined Executive Directors is of benefits contribution pension currently a member of the scheme pension scheme Variable Linked to Group profitability, Allocation of pool takes The maximum aggregate Pool based on 4-4.5% of remuneration aligning Directors interests account of individual bonus is 4.5% of operating operating profit in excess of with shareholders contribution and relative profit over the minimum minimum threshold operating responsibilities threshold operating profit profit calculated using 11.5% weighted average cost of The deferred element Directors must hold 50% of capital on average capital encourages long-term variable remuneration in employed shareholding also aligning shares for two years Directors interests with shareholders LTIP Aligns Directors interests Relative and absolute total Annual grants equivalent to 50% of award based on TSR with shareholders by shareholder value targets 50% of the prior year variable relative to FTSE 250 th focusing on longer term underpinned by a minimum remuneration companies.
25% vests at 50 shareholder returns return on capital employed ranking percentile and 100% th hurdle over a 3 year at 25 ranking percentile performance period 50% of award based on absolute TSR.
25% vests at RPI 4.5% and 100% at RPI 9.5% In the last year of the performance period, ROCE must be at least 25% Chairman and Non-executive Directors Fees To attract high calibre, Benchmarked against other None None experienced Non-executives UK listed companies of comparable size and activities The implementation of the remuneration policies set out below is 2.
Variable remuneration subject to annual independent internal review as required by the A high proportion of total remuneration is variable and is dependent on performance.
The aim is to motivate and retain staff, Remuneration Code.
consistent with the risk appetite determined by the Board and thereby to achieve superior returns for shareholders.
Remuneration policies for Executive Directors and Senior Management Variable remuneration for an individual, and in aggregate for the 1.
Fixed remuneration Executive Directors and Senior Management, is determined taking Salaries are paid monthly and are set at a level to provide a into account the overall performance of the business and its reasonable level of fixed remuneration which would be appropriate regulatory capital requirements.
As the business does not take any in circumstances where variable remuneration is not paid owing trading risk and does not hold principal trading positions, does not to weak performance.
Salaries are reviewed periodically and are only increased if they are found to be significantly out of line with have valuation issues in measuring its profits, and does not retain the market.
any contingent risks, it is not necessary for an adjustment for risk to be considered in reviewing financial performance in the determination of variable remuneration.
37 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Report on Directors Remuneration continued While the decision to pay variable remuneration will reflect, 5.
Long term Incentive Plans to a degree, short term financial outcomes against budget, Long term equity-based incentive plans are used, where other factors are taken into account.
Consequently, it is possible appropriate, to motivate the Companys Executive Directors and that, in some market circumstances, individual superior Senior Management.
Recent awards, which have only been made performance may not be reflected in the achievement of budgets to Executive Directors, have been structured to reward growth in but may merit a significant payment.
This approach is balanced by relative and absolute shareholder value.
the Companys principle that the cost of staff should be sensitive to returns to shareholders, and the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of reviews the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior aligning the interests of Executive Directors with those of Management in the context of the operating profit for the year.
shareholders and equity incentive awards will continue to form It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee not to pay variable part of their remuneration packages.
remuneration to any Executive Director or Senior Management if it is not satisfied with personal performance.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that the provision of long term equity based incentives to Senior Management, except in Payment of variable remuneration is discretionary and not specific individual circumstances, is not consistent with market contractual, with the level determined on the basis of judgements practice in the Companys key competitor organisations and on performance relative to the trading conditions and other consequently no further awards will be made routinely to Senior circumstances, as well as the achievement of objectives.
Management under the Long Term Incentive Plan for the foreseeable future.
Variable remuneration is paid to the Executive Directors and Senior Management at least two months after the end of the financial 6.
The business realises its revenues in cash within a short time The Company provides defined contribution pension arrangements frame, and all of the reported revenues will have been realised in only and does not pay discretionary pension benefits.
cash before these payments are made.
Medical insurance and benefits in kind The Companys policy is to ensure that variable remuneration is not The Company makes available medical insurance to employees but paid through vehicles or methods that facilitate avoidance of the otherwise seeks to avoid the provision of benefits in kind.
Caps on remuneration The Companys remuneration policy for Brokers is based on the The variable remuneration for Executive Directors is effectively principle that remuneration is directly based on financial capped through the application of a formula that establishes the performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated in maximum amount of variable remuneration that will be paid.
accordance with formulae set out in contracts of employment.
These formulae take into account the fixed costs of the Brokers, The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the formal and variable remuneration payments are therefore based on the capping of variable remuneration for Senior Management and profits that the Brokers generate for the business.
Initial contract Brokers is consistent with the delivery of enhanced returns to payments are only paid upfront when a claw-back provision is shareholders.
In addition, it is not appropriate to apply percentages included in the contract of employment.
Typically, Brokers receive a or multiples of salary to the determination of variable fixed salary paid regularly throughout the year, with a significant remuneration given the policy of paying fixed remuneration of a proportion of variable remuneration dependent on revenue, which relatively low proportion of overall remuneration.
is paid after the revenue has been fully received in cash.
Once cash has been received, revenue is not subject to any residual risk.
Deferral and claw-backs Payments of variable remuneration to the Executive Directors are Remuneration policies for Control Functions subject to deferral through the requirement for an element of the The Companys remuneration policy for Control Functions is that payments to be invested in the Companys shares which are to be remuneration is adequate to attract qualified and experienced held for a minimum period before they can be sold.
staff, is in accordance with the achievement of objectives linked to their functions, and is independent of the performance of the Given the Companys low risk profile and the sector in which the business areas they support.
Employees in such functions report Company competes, it is not considered necessary for the variable through an organisation structure that is separate to and remuneration paid to Senior Management to be subject to deferral, independent from the business units.
The heads of such functions or to attach claw-back conditions to variable remuneration paid report to members of the Executive Committee and as Senior either to Executive Directors or to Senior Management.
Management, their remuneration is reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
38 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information DetAILS oF DIReCtoRS ReMuneRAtIon AuDIteD exCePt WheRe StAteD Total emoluments received by Directors during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows: Variable remuneration Subject to investment Salaries and fees Benefits Cash requirement Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Terry Smith 650 650 3 2 1,250 1,690 1,250 1,690 3,153 4,032 Paul Mainwaring 275 275 1 1 313 423 312 422 901 1,121 Non-executive Directors Keith Hamill 175 158 175 158 Angela Knight 58 19 58 19 David Clark 54 51 54 51 Michael Fallon 36 51 36 51 Roger Perkin 27 27 Stephen Pull 54 18 54 18 Rupert Robson 54 51 54 51 1,383 1,273 4 3 1,563 2,113 1,562 2,112 4,512 5,501 Appointed 1 September 2011 Resigned 4 September 2012 Appointed 1 July 2012 The single total remuneration figures for the Executive Directors, calculated in accordance with the UK Governments Department of Business Innovation and Skills proposed revised remuneration reporting regulations were as follows: Fixed and variable Pension LTIP Total 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Terry Smith 3,153 4,032 897 3,153 4,929 Paul Mainwaring 901 1,121 2 6 380 903 1,507 Taken from the total emoluments table above The Remuneration Committee took into account the pay and The value attributed to the LTIP is based on the awards which employment conditions of other employees in the Company in vested during the reporting period included as remuneration in determining Executive Directors remuneration.
the financial year in which the performance conditions were satisfied at the market value on the date the options first The total remuneration of the Executive Directors was as follows: became exercisable.
Fixed remuneration The single total remuneration figure for the Non-executive The fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is Directors is as set out in the total emoluments table above.
650,000 and has not been changed since 2005.
The fixed remuneration of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring, is 275,000 Application of remuneration policies to Executive Directors and has not changed since his appointment in 2006.
The balance of fixed and variable remuneration for the Executive Directors was carefully considered by the Remuneration 2.
Apart from fixed salaries and benefits-in-kind, all As in previous years, the Remuneration Committee establishes the other elements of remuneration relate to performance.
Including the value of the LTIP awards as at the date of grant in total total amount of variable remuneration to be paid to the Executive remuneration, the proportion of remuneration that is related Directors using the pre-agreed formula and then allocates it to performance for Terry Smith was 87% 2011: 89% and for between them taking into consideration their personal Paul Mainwaring was 79% 2011: 83%.
39 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Report on Directors Remuneration continued As set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration in last years Consistent with the approach taken in recent years, half of the Annual Report, in order to determine the total variable 2012 variable remuneration for each of the Executive Directors remuneration for the Executive Directors, the formula used to was awarded on condition that the net of tax amount would be calculate the variable remuneration continues to be 4.0% 4.5% of invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of the surplus of operating profit over the threshold operating profit two years.
which is calculated as the weighted average cost of capital WACC multiplied by the capital employed.
The determination of the total 2012 is the fifth successive year for which the Remuneration variable remuneration within the range takes account of additional Committee has determined that 50% of the variable remuneration factors, such as the achievement of the Companys and individuals awarded to each of the Executive Directors is on condition that it objectives and corporate performance relative to market is invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum circumstances.
As set out in the 2011 Report on Directors of two years.
The investments made in the Companys shares by Remuneration, in exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration the Executive Directors with 50% of the variable remuneration Committee may decrease or increase the amounts resulting from awarded for 2010 can now be divested, and the Remuneration the formula to take account of, for example, the impact of strategic Committee has determined that the investment condition for the investments that depress short term results, if it concludes that 50% of the variable remuneration awarded for 2012 will be met doing so would be in the interests of shareholders.
by the Executive Directors being required to hold the requisite number of shares purchased with the 2010 payment of variable For 2012 the Remuneration Committee determined that the remuneration for a further period of two years.
The interests of operating profit to be used in the formula should be before the the Directors in the Companys shares are set out in the Directors charge for restructuring costs, as was the case for 2011, and before Report on page 28. the charge for the impairment of goodwill.
The Remuneration Committee also concluded that it was appropriate to take account 3.
Awards under the Companys Long term Incentive Plan of certain costs of strategic technology investment in the year.
The outstanding share options awarded to each of the Executive The amount of variable remuneration available for 2012 for the Directors are set out in the table below: Executive Directors, using the formula above and a WACC of 11.5%, was determined to be 3.125m 2011: 4.225m.
The allocation of the total variable remuneration to each of the Executive Directors is shown in the table on page 39.
40 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Performance conditions The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR over the The vesting of all awards is subject to the achievement of three years to 31 December 2014, with minimum vesting of 25% performance conditions, based on relative and absolute total of the awards if the percentile ranking of the Companys TSR over shareholder return TSR, subject to the achievement of return on the respective period relative to the TSR of all other companies capital employed ROCE of not less than 25% in the final year of comprising, at the start of the relevant performance period, the each performance period the ROCE Hurdle.
The determination of FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is 50th and with maximum the extent of vesting with respect to TSR is made by PwC on behalf vesting of 100% if it is 25th or better.
of the Remuneration Committee and the determination of ROCE is The vesting of half of the awards is subject to absolute TSR over the made by the Board.
three years to 31 December 2014, with minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the Companys annualised TSR over that period is The Remuneration Committee considers that the use of relative and equal to RPI 4.5% and with maximum vesting of 100% if absolute TSR meets investors expectations of outperformance, annualised TSR is equal to RPI 9.5% or above.
and the ROCE measure provides an appropriate financial performance hurdle.
Share price during the year 2009 awards The lowest closing price of Tullett Prebon plc ordinary shares during the As reported last year, 45% of the awards made in 2009 vested and year to 31 December 2012 was 219p and the highest closing price was became exercisable from 22 June 2012.
At 31 December 2012 the closing share price was 252p.
2010 awards 4. benefits The vesting of two thirds of the awards was subject to relative No pension contributions were made in respect of Terry Smith during TSR performance over the three years to 31 December 2012, with 2012 2011: nil.
Paul Mainwaring received pension contributions minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the ranking percentile of during 2012 of 1,584 2011: 6,336.
These contributions were made the Companys TSR over that period relative to all other companies to the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Pension Plan.
comprising, at the start of the period, the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is 50th and with maximum vesting of 100% if it Terry Smith and Paul Mainwaring received private medical cover at is 25th or better.
The Companys actual TSR ranking percentile over a cost of 2,782 and 916 respectively during 2012 2011: 2,370 that period has been calculated by PwC as being the 83rd percentile and 878 respectively.
and accordingly, none of the shares subject to the relative TSR 5. outside directorships unaudited condition have vested.
Neither Terry Smith nor Paul Mainwaring has any outside directorships from which they received any remuneration.
The vesting of one third of the awards was subject to absolute TSR over the three years to 31 December 2012, with minimum vesting 6.
Service contracts unaudited of 25% of the awards if the Companys annualised TSR over that period was equal to RPI 4.5% and with maximum vesting of 100% The Executive Directors serve under contracts terminable on if annualised TSR was equal to RPI 9.5% or above.
The Companys 12 months notice with entitlement to salary and contractual annualised TSR over the period has been calculated by PwC as benefits subject to mitigation, and with restrictive covenants.
Accordingly, none of the shares subject to the The contracts do not provide for termination payments in absolute TSR RPI condition have vested.
excess of salary and contractual benefits.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy that termination payments will not exceed 100% of base salary plus annual variable remuneration.
2011 awards The contracts provide for retirement at the age of 65 in both cases.
The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR over the three years to 31 December 2013, with minimum vesting of 25% The Executive Directors service contracts were entered into on of the awards if the percentile ranking of the Companys TSR over the following dates: the respective period relative to the TSR of all other companies comprising, at the start of the relevant performance period, Director Date of contract the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is 50th and with Terry Smith 29 January 2007 maximum vesting of 100% if it is 25th or better.
Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 The vesting of half of the awards is subject to absolute TSR over the Chairman and Non-executive Directors three years to 31 December 2013, with minimum vesting of 25% of 1.
Fees the awards if the Companys annualised TSR over that period is The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the equal to RPI 4.5% and with maximum vesting of 100% if Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the annualised TSR is equal to RPI 9.5% or above.
These are benchmarked against published information on the fees paid to the non-executive 2012 awards directors of UK listed companies of comparable size and activities.
The value of the share options granted during 2012 to Terry Smith The fees for the Chairman are 175,000 per annum, 58,000 per was 1,690,000 and to Paul Mainwaring was 422,500.
These annum for the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and awards represented ratios to basic pay of 2.6x for Terry Smith and 54,000 per annum for all other Non-executive Directors.
None of 1.5x for Paul Mainwaring.
Total LTIP awards made to Executive the Non-executive Directors nor the Chairman are eligible to Directors in 2012 represented 0.3% of the issued share capital.
participate in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Company.
41 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Report on Directors Remuneration continued 2.
Appointment letters unaudited The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of appointment which are terminable on the earliest of the Director not being re-elected at an AGM, removed as a director or required to vacate office under the Articles of Association, on resignation or at the request of the Board or subject to 12 months notice.
The dates of the letters of appointment are set out below: Director Date of letter of appointment Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 David Clark 10 March 2003 Michael Fallon 28 September 2010 Angela Knight 1 September 2011 Roger Perkin 1 July 2012 Stephen Pull 1 September 2011 Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 Total shareholder returns A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services index in the five years to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 Tullett Prebon plc 20 FTSE250 FTSE350 General Financials 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: Datastream The Board believes that the above indices are most relevant as they comprise either businesses of similar size or engaged in the financial services industry.
On behalf of the Board Rupert Robson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 March 2013 42
