Summary directors remuneration report Annual bonus Overall group performance was assessed at just below target.
Annual bonus results were based on performance assessed against targets established at the start of the year and reflected the strategic priorities of safety and operational risk management, rebuilding trust and restoring value.
Safety and risk management results, accounting for 30% of bonus, were generally at or better than plan, with significant improvement and high standards in both loss of primary containment and process safety tier 1 incidents both key indicators of process safety.
Rebuilding trust accounted for 20% of bonus, and the company continued to make important gains as measured by independent surveys.
Restoring value metrics accounted for 50% of bonus with somewhat mixed results.
Upstream major project delivery was on target, and divestment targets were exceeded but operating cash flow, underlying replacement cost profit and total cash costs did not achieve plan targets.
The continuity of our pay structure provides a Performance shares relatively simple, performance-based system No shares vested in the 2010-2012 share element.
Performance measures for this plan related to total shareholder return, production, net tied directly to strategy.
income, and downstream profitability all relative to the other oil majors.
As the starting point for these metrics was prior to the Deepwater Horizon accident, performance failed to meet the level required for vesting.
Other elements Salaries were increased 3% mid-year for Bob Dudley, Iain Conn and Dear shareholder Dr Byron Grote.
The deferred bonus component was first introduced BP made many further positive steps in its recovery journey during 2012. following shareholder approval in 2010, and so no plan is yet eligible for The remuneration committee recognizes the patience of investors during vesting and will not be until early 2014.
Pension increases reflect the this period since the 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident.
Equally we application of relevant plan rules.
As Bob Dudleys defined benefit pension recognize the persistence of our executives in embedding safe and is based on three-year average remuneration, its increased value reflects a effective operations deeply into the fabric of the company while catching up with his promotion, first to the board in 2009 and secondly to systematically restoring value.
Progress is being made, reflecting a clear group chief executive in 2010.
Similarly, Dr Brian Gilvarys pension increase strategy and disciplined execution.
reflects his promotion to chief financial officer at the start of 2012.
Our remuneration system for executive directors is tied closely to this 2013 policy progress.
The companys strategy forms the basis for an annual plan and For 2013 our overall policy for executive directors will remain largely the measures and targets used for both annual and long-term variable pay.
unchanged, and is summarized on page 24.
The continuity of our pay Variable pay, based on performance, makes up the vast majority of total structure comprising salary, annual bonus, deferred bonus, performance potential remuneration for executive directors, and of that, most is shares, and pension, provides a relatively simple, performance-based long-term, reflecting the nature of BPs business and providing strong system tied directly to strategy.
Salaries will be reviewed mid-year taking alignment with shareholders.
into consideration both external and internal relativities.
Annual bonus will Our process for determining pay is both rigorous and independent.
I have operate in the same way as last year but the metrics have evolved slightly met with a number of our key shareholders again this year to understand to reflect annual plan priorities and with increased weight on restoring their perspectives.
We seek to reflect shareholders interests as well as value.
Performance shares follow the same format as last year with minor to fairly reward the achievements of our executives, recognizing the change in the metrics to align with strategy.
contentious nature of top executive pay while ensuring competitiveness Report format for our talented leadership.
We believe informed, balanced judgement, The UK government has issued draft regulations on revised reporting for and transparency of our decisions is vital.
These principles continue to directors remuneration which are expected to be finalized later this year.
guide the committees operation and have led to large variability in total We support many of the changes planned and have incorporated these remuneration for our executive directors over the past decade, reflecting into the current report to the extent we believe is appropriate while still the underlying performance of the company.
2012 outcomes We hope that you find this report both informative and reassuring.
Our The outcomes of the various plans that make up 2012 total remuneration commitment to both shareholder interests and executive engagement for executive directors are summarized in the table on page 23. continues, and we are confident that our approach to executive pay aligns well with the recovery of BPs business.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a Dr Brian Gilvary joined the board on 1 January 2012. b This reflects the amount of total overall bonus paid in cash with the deferred portion as set out in the conditional equity table below.
c Represents vesting of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan and includes re-invested dividends on the shares vested.
d There was no vesting under the 2010-2012 performance share element.
The shares that vested for Iain Conn pertained to a separate restricted award made in 2008 and those for Dr Brian Gilvary to an award granted prior to joining the board.
The market price of ordinary shares on respective vesting dates of 7 February 2013 and 15 January 2013 was 4.58. e Represents the increase in transfer value calculated for defined benefit plans.
Increases for Bob Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary reflect their promotions as per applicable rules.
f As for all employees affected by UK pension tax limits and who wished to remain within these limits, with effect from April 2011, Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary received a cash supplement of 35% of basic salary in lieu of future service pension accrual.
Both deferred and matched shares are subject to a safety and environmental hurdle over the three-year deferral period.
Non-executive directors in 2012 audited Historical TSR performance thousand FTSE 100 BP 2012 2011 Carl-Henric Svanberg 750 750 200 Paul Anderson 149 128 Admiral Frank Bowman 126 120 150 Antony Burgmans 120 100 Cynthia Carroll 98 85 100 a George David 135 128 Ian Davis 128 160 50 b c Professor Dame Ann Dowling 97 Brendan Nelson 119 103 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Phuthuma Nhleko 123 113 d Andrew Shilston 125 This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 Index Director leaving the board in 2012 e of which the company is a constituent.
The values of the hypothetical Sir William Castell 42 168 100 holdings at the end of the five-year period were 89.60 and a In addition, George David received 28,000 for chairing the BP technology advisory council.
b Appointed on 3 February 2012. c In addition, Professor Dowling received 4,166 for her membership of the BP technology advisory council.
d Appointed 1 January 2012 and became senior independent director in April 2012. e Retired from the board in April 2012.
BP Summary Review 2012 23 Value of hypothetical 100 holding 2013 remuneration policy Remuneration policy summary Component Policy and opportunity 2013 operation and performance metrics Salary Base salaries should be competitive relative to relevant Salaries as at 1 January 2013 are: Bob Dudley $1,751,000, market peer groups and are normally reviewed annually.
Annual bonus Annual bonus should be based on performance relative Bonus measures for 2013 are: to measures and targets reflecting the annual plan, which Safety and operational risk management 30%.
in turn reflects the strategic priorities of the company.
Achieving plan results should equate to on-target bonus.
On-target bonus is set at 150% of salary for executive directors with a maximum of 225% of salary.
Downstream net income per barrel.
No change from last year on safety and operational risk management.
Weight on value creation increased from 50% last year by eliminating rebuilding trust as a measure.
Deferred bonus A portion of annual bonus should be paid in shares and One-third of annual bonus is deferred on a mandatory basis deferred to add long-term sustainability and shareholder and a further one-third can be deferred on a voluntary basis.
alignment to short-term performance achievement.
All deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis.
All deferred and matched shares vest after three years contingent on an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
Performance shares A large portion of total remuneration for executive directors The 2013-2015 share element will vest based equally on the should be tied to the long-term performance of the company.
following three performance metrics: Shares to a value of 5.5 times salary for the group chief Total shareholder return versus oil majors.
executive and 4 times salary for the other executive directors Operating cash flow.
Vesting of the shares after three years is dependent on Reserves replacement versus oil majors.
performance relative to measures reflecting the strategic priorities of the company.
Those shares that vest are held for an additional three-year Major project delivery.
retention period, after payment of tax on vesting.
Executive directors are expected to develop a personal shareholding of five times salary before shares are released.
No change from last year with the exception of major project delivery replacing rebuilding trust as one of the strategic imperatives, to align with strategy.
Pension and other Executive directors should participate in the normal company Both UK and US executive directors remain on defined benefit pension and benefit schemes applying in their home pension plans.
UK directors, as for all UK employees who benefits countries.
exceed the annual allowance set by legislation, may receive a cash supplement in lieu of future service pension accrual.
See pages 20-21 for how our bonus measures for 2012 and 2013 are directly linked to business KPIs.
