Directors remuneration report Introduction by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, Proposed new Remuneration Policy for 2013 and Iam pleased to present Intus 2012 Directors remuneration Shareholder Consultation report to you, which has been prepared by the Remuneration As advised in last years Directors remuneration report, the Committee and approved by the Board.
Remuneration Committee undertook a root-and-branch review of remuneration during the year to ensure Intu executive Results and context of remuneration for 2012 remuneration appropriately: 2012 has been another year of significant progress and G aligns executive and shareholder interests strongperformance for the Group, with the quality of G supports the attraction, motivation and retention of Intusassets and teams demonstrated by the considerable highcalibre executives outperformance of national benchmarks against a G links executive reward to results challengingeconomic background.
G reects latest developments in best practice and is Summary of key features for the alsosimpleand effective.
2012 remuneration report A number of objectives were identied by the Committee at the The key areas of focus for the Remuneration Committee in 2012 outset of the review.
These were to: have been: G appropriately reinforce achievement of Intus strategic objectives G Proposed new remuneration policy to be introduced effective G respond to shareholder feedback from 1January 2013 subject to shareholder approval at the G rebalance the pay mix towards the long-term forthcoming AGM.
The proposed new policy has been the G reward a balance of absolute and relative measures of subject of a comprehensive consultation with shareholders long-term performance G The Executive Directors salaries will be increased by 4.9 per G ensure alignment of executives at and below the Board cent from 1 April 2013, broadly in line with increases across G ensure short-term performance measures provide strong the Group line-of-sight and appropriately recognise managements G The annual bonus awarded to the Executive Directors for contribution to value creation theyear ended 31 December 2012 was determined by the G ensure remuneration is sufficiently competitive to allow Intu to Remuneration Committee under the rules of the existing attract, motivate, and retain high calibre executives at all levels bonus scheme, which will cease to operate, subject to approval G align remuneration with best practice by shareholders of the new proposals at the forthcoming AGM.
G encourage greater levels of personal shareholding amongst If approved, the new arrangements will take effect from senior executives 1January 2013 The proposed new arrangements comprise: G Improved transparency through early adoption of the majority G A new short-term incentive, as described on page 82 of the Governments new recommendations for remuneration G A new long-term incentive, the Performance Share Plan, as report structure and content described on page 82.
The new plan will replace the existing share option scheme and accordingly no further option grants will be How to read this report made to the Executive Directors This report sets out the remuneration policy for theExecutive As a result of this review, the Committee has proposed changes and Non-Executive Directors of Intu, describes the individual to Intu executive remuneration which have been developed in remuneration of the Directorsfor the year ended 31 December conjunction with some of our major shareholders with whom 2012 and, in particular, how remuneration is linked to weconsulted on the proposals.
The feedback from most of the performance.
In response to feedback from shareholders, and shareholders was positive and supportive.
The proposals are theUK Governments Department of Business Innovation & described in further detail on page 82 of this report, and will be Skills BIS consultation and recommendations, we have made submitted for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
anumber ofenhancements to the contentand format of this report.
The Committee has decided to adopt the majority of Shareholder Annual General Meeting these changes earlier than required under the regulations and This remuneration report will be put to the shareholder vote at accordingly this report is divided into: our AGM in May 2013 and we look forward to receiving your 1.
A forward-looking Policy Section, for 2013 and beyond, which views and support.
details Intus remuneration policies and links to strategy: 2.
An Implementation Report, which focuses on the remuneration arrangements and outcomes for the year under review: and Neil Sachdev Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3.
A third section containing other information required this yearunder the existing regulations.
27 February 2013 74 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Policy section Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Policy section Remuneration Committee Compliance statement This report covers the reporting period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee and remuneration policy for Intu Properties plc the Company.
The structure of this report has been prepared by the Committee based on the proposed regulations put forward by BIS.
The Government intends the reforms to be enacted by October 2013, but the Remuneration Committee believes these proposals enhance disclosure and has therefore decided to adopt the majority of the draft regulations.
This is the Directors remuneration report of the Company which has been produced pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Listing Rules, section 420 of the Companies Act 2006 and Chairman: Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Neil Sachdev Independent Non-Executive Director Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Company has also followed the requirements of the UK Members: Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
This report Louise Patten Independent Non-Executive Director contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
Theinformation subject to audit is set out in the Directors Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director emoluments and Executive Directors share awards sections on Number of meetings in 2012: Seven pages 86 and 88 respectively.
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act, an advisory resolution to approve this Key responsibilities: report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to Company to be held in May 2013.
The detail in this report sets determine and agree with the Board the framework and out how the remuneration principles have been applied in 2012. policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Chairman of the Company and such Key principles of remuneration policy other members of the executive management as it is The Companys remuneration policy aims to attract, motivate and designated to consider.
retain high calibre executives by rewarding them appropriately with competitive compensation and benefit packages.
The policy aligns directly the interests of Executive Directors Index to sections contained in this report and senior staff with the performance of the Company and the Page interests of its shareholders.
In summary, the key objectives of 74 Introduction by Chairman of the the policy are as listed opposite on page 74.
Remuneration Committee As explained opposite, the Remuneration Committee has 75 Policy section carried out a major review of the remuneration policy in 75 Compliance statement consultation with large shareholders and the resultant 75 Key principles of the remuneration policy proposals will be put to shareholders for approval at the 78 Details of Directors service contracts forthcoming AGM.
79 Termination payments Our incentive arrangements, both existing and proposed, 79 Pay for performance: scenario analysis aredesigned to reward performance on our Key Performance 80 Distribution statement Indicators of: 80 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group G Total shareholder return 80 Consideration of shareholder views G Total financial return, i. e. growth in NAV per share plus dividends 81 Implementation Report G Income performance, i. e. growth in adjusted EPS 81 Remuneration Committee membership in 2012 G Prime property assets, i. e. total property return relative to the IPD 81 Advisers to the Committee 82 Changes made to remuneration arrangements for 2013 G Like-for-like growth in net rental income 83 Total remuneration in 2012 G Occupancy 83 Directors remuneration and incentives Our aim is to focus management on delivering sustainable 85 Exit payments made in year long-term performance and support the retention of critical talent.
85 Total shareholdings of Directors 86 Shareholder context 86 Additional information Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 75 Directors remuneration report continued This section of our report describes the key components of the remuneration arrangements for 2013 for Executive Directors, and at the bottom of the table the remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors.
Opportunity and Changes Purpose Operation performance metrics for 2013 Base salary 9 To provide an appropriately competitive Reviewed annually with effect from Base salary increases will be applied in level of base pay to attract and retain 1April.
line with the outcome of the annual talent.
Individual and Company Salary levels take account of: performance are considerations in setting base salary.
G Size and nature of the responsibilities of each role Base salary increases consistent with this policy will be effective from 1 April G Market pay levels for the role 2013 as set out in the Implementation G The executives experience report on page 83.
G Implications for total remuneration G Increases for the rest of the Group G Overall affordability Pension None To help provide for an appropriate The Company operates an approved The standard Company pension retirement benefit.
contribution is 24per cent of base salary.
The CEO receives an additional Individuals can elect to take some all as 6.0 per cent of salary in recognition a cash supplement.
ofthe additional value of the benefit foregone on the closure of the dened benefit scheme.
This amount was actuarially determined to be costneutral to the Company.
Other benets None To provide an appropriately The Company provides a car allowance David Fischel and Matthew Roberts competitive level of benets.
up to a maximum of 18,000 per receive the full car allowance of annum for Executive Directors and 18,000 per annum.
Both David Fischel and Matthew The Company offers BUPA private Roberts received a taxable benefit in medical insurance to all staff.
Premiums respect of private medical insurance.
are paid by the Company and staff are Premiums for the 2012 13 tax year subject to income tax on the value of were 1,476. the benefit.
Short-term incentive 9 To align annual reward with annual Intu operates a short-term incentive Maximum STI opportunity for Executive performance to support retention arrangement with a maximum Directors: 120per cent of salary andalignment with shareholders individual opportunity set by the 150per cent in2012.
interests through significant deferral Remuneration Committee each year Executives performance is measured ofbonus shares.
relative to challenging targets in key financial, operational and strategic measures.
The measures selected and their weightings vary each year according to the strategic priorities.
Measures and respective weightings used for the 2012 annual bonus are set out in the Implementation report on page 84, and those proposed for the 2013 annual bonus are set out in the changes made to remuneration arrangements for 2013 on page 82.
50 per cent of any earned bonus is deferred in Intu shares, half for two years and half for three years, vesting subject to continued employment.
76 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Opportunity and Changes Purpose Operation performance metrics for 2013 Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan PSP 9 To reward good long-term decisions Following the review of incentives, the Normal maximum opportunity: which help grow thevalue of Intu over a Committee has proposed to replace the 250 per cent of salary.
three to five-yearhorizon and support existing ESOS with a PSP.
Long-term incentive performance the retention of critical executives.
Executive Directors and senior conditions are reviewed on an annual executives participate in the PSP.
Grants basis, and are chosen to be aligned with are made annually to eligible employees the long-term strategy of the business.
at the discretion of the Committee.
Details of the performance conditions Awards can be made as performance for the 2012 awards are provided in the shares or nil-cost options over a specic Implementation report on page 84 and number of shares and vest one-third, those proposed for 2013 onwards are one-third, one-third after three, four and set out in the changes made to five years subject to performance and remuneration arrangements on continued employment.
The Committee has discretion to clawback awards in certain circumstances including if there is a material misstatement in the annual financial statements or a material failure of risk management by theCompany.
The proposed PSP will be submitted for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2013.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS None Following the incentive review, the Committee does not intend to make further awards under the ESOS to Executive Directors and senior executives.
Executive shareholding guidelines 9 To support shareholder alignment by Executive Directors and other senior Executive shareholding guidelines are encouraging executives to act like executives are expected to build up set out under Total shareholdings of shareholders.
over a period of three to five years Directors on page 85. abenecial shareholding based onseniority.
To be achieved by retaining at least 50per cent of vested share awards netof tax.
Fees None To remunerate Non-Executive The Chairman and Non-Executive Current Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Directors fees are determined by the Director fees are set out in the Board, taking into account the time footnotes to the Emoluments table on commitment, responsibilities, and the page 86. skills and experience required.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 77 Directors remuneration report continued Details of Directors service contracts Chairman The terms of the Chairmans appointment broadly reect the terms of the three-year appointments of the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have been appointed on xed terms of two or three years, subject to renewal thereafter.
Mr R. M. Gordon has served for more than nine years and is now subject to a one-year term.
All are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
TheNon-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which include provisions for early termination in specified circumstances.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were entitled to receive an additional payment equivalent to one-years fee in the eventof a change of control of the Company.
However, following shareholder feedback at the 2012 AGM, this entitlement is to be replaced in the first half of 2013 by an agreement to recompense the Directors for any additional time commitment in certain limited circumstances, to be calculated on a per diem basis.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benets from their office other than fees.
They are not eligible to participate in Group pensionarrangements.
The following table sets out the dates of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors: Date of appointment Current term expires A. Anderson 22 February 2013 2016 AGM J. G. Abel 2 June 2010 2013 AGM R. M. Gordon 7 May 2010 2013 AGM A. J. M. Huntley 8 July 2009 2014 AGM Lady Patten 22 September 2011 2014 AGM R. O. Rowley 17 May 2004 2013 AGM N. Sachdev 1 November 2006 2013 AGM A. D. Strang 8 July 2009 2015 AGM J. Whittaker 28 January 2011 2014 AGM Mr Whittaker did not receive any fees in respect of his position as Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Director of the Company during 2012 Executive Directors Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which are terminable on 12-months notice on either side.
None of the existing service contracts for Executive Directors makes any provision for termination payments, other than for payment of salary and benets in lieu of notice.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, salary continuance in the event of extended absence due to illness, holiday and sick pay, life insurance, personal accident, medical insurance, dependants pensions, and the reimbursement of reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Directors while on Company business.
The following service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and therefore have no end date: Date of commencement of contract Notice period D. A. Fischel 24 June 1999 12 months E. M. G. Roberts 17 May 2010 12 months 78 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Termination payments The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
However, in the event of the Company terminating an Executive Directors contract, the level of compensation would be subject to mitigation if considered appropriate.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Under normal circumstances, good leavers are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and benets only.
The notice period for both Executive Directors is one year.
Note, on a change-of-control the Remuneration Committee has discretion to permit early vesting of PSP awards subject to pro-rating for time and performance, unless the Committee in its discretion determines otherwise.
In the event an executive is a good leaver, e. g. for reasons of injury, disability etc.
or for any other reason, any outstanding PSP awards will be pro-rated for time and based on performance to the end of the performance period.
In the event of death, early vesting is permitted, based on the Committees assessment of performance against the performance condition.
For all other leavers, outstanding awards lapse.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions as permitted by therelevant Plan Rules on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances to ensure fairness for both shareholders andparticipants.
Pay for performance: scenario analysis In determining Executive Director pay, the Remuneration Committee the Committee reviews remuneration received and the Companys performance relative to the other FTSE 200 property REITs.
In addition, the Committee reviews potential remuneration for performance.
The following chart shows the potential split between the different elements of the Executive Directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Stretch.
Scenario analysis chart CEO FD Stretch Stretch Target Target Below Below threshold threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 000s 000s Salary Pension Benets Cash STI Deferred STI PSP Component Below threshold Target Stretch Base salary Annual base salary Pension 30 per cent of salary for CEO: 24 per cent of salary for FD Benets Taxable value of annual benets provided Annual bonus 0 per cent of salary 60 per cent of salary 120 per cent of salary cash and deferred shares target opportunity maximum opportunity Performance Share Plan 0 per cent vesting 25 per cent vesting 100 per cent vesting Excludes share price growth Based on initial 2013 award, i. e. normal award enhanced by 50 per cent: excludes share price growth A description of the annual bonus and Performance Share Plan award for 2013 is set out on page 82.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 79 Directors remuneration report continued Distribution statement The table below shows the percentage change in profit after tax, dividends, and total employee compensation spend from the financial year ended 31 December 2011 to the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
Total employee Underlying earnings Dividend pay expenditure 139m 138m 150 0.6% 150 60 128m 128m 0% 125 125 50 100 100 40 30.5m 29.0m 5% 75 75 30 50 50 20 25 25 10 m 2011 2012 m 2011 2012 m 2011 2012 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Priorto the annual pay review, the Committee receives a report from the HR Director setting out changes to broader employee pay.
This forms part of the basis for determining Executive Director remuneration.
The Company consulted with employees in 2012, aspart of an employee survey, over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration policy.
The increase made to the Executive Directors base salary for 2013 was 4.9 per cent for both the Chief Executive and the FinanceDirector.
In addition to salary, all Group employees are entitled to participate in the Share Incentive Plan, and may be granted an annual bonus on a discretionary basis dependent on the satisfaction of corporate and personal objectives.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, certain employees may also be awarded long-term incentives in the form of options granted under theCompanys share option schemes.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
Aspart of the remuneration review undertaken during the year, the Committee has moved to address the concerns voiced by shareholders at last years AGM.
In response to shareholder feedback, the Remuneration Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration policy during the year as described on page 82.
The Committee consulted with the Groups largest shareholders on the new proposals anda number of amendments were made to take shareholder comments into account.
80 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Implementation report Remuneration Committee membership in 2012 The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which take full account of the recommendations contained within the Code, include: G Determining the remuneration policy for the Companys Executive Directors and senior executives G Determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives G Setting appropriately stretching and achievable targets for the Companys incentive schemes in order to motivate executives to deliver high levels of performance in the interests of our shareholders, customers and employees G Overseeing any significant changes to remuneration policy for the wider employee population The full duties and responsibilities are set out in the terms of reference of the Committee which are available on the Companyswebsite.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the year the Committee consisted of Rob Rowley and Louise Patten, under the Chairmanship of Neil Sachdev.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, and Company Secretary are invited to attend Committee meetings to contribute to the Committee in its deliberations.
However, no individual is present when his or her remuneration is being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee met a total of seven times in 2012, including three scheduled meetings and four additional meetings which focused on the root-and-branch review of remuneration policy.
Matters covered at the scheduled meetings included: G Executive Director salaries G Performance outcomes for the annual bonus G Option grants to senior executives G The Chairmans terms of appointment G The Directors remuneration report G Preparation for the AGM G Root-and-branch review of remuneration policy and structure for 2013 Advisers to the Committee The Committee has appointed and received advice from Kepler Associates, a rm of independent remuneration consultants.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice on market trends, incentive design, and other remuneration matters.
Kepler Associates is independent and does not provide any other services to the Company.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work carried out in 2012 totalled 173,385.
Kepler Associates is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
The Committee has also appointed and been advised by Norton Rose LLP during the year on various remuneration matters.
Norton Rose does not advise the Company on any other matters.
Some work was carried out by Norton Rose in 2012 but this is expected to be billed in 2013.
The Committee also makes use of various published surveys to help determine appropriate remuneration levels.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 81 Directors remuneration report continued Changes made to remuneration arrangements for 2013 As a result of the remuneration review carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, and following feedback from our major shareholders, the proposed Executive Director remuneration arrangements include: G Rebalancing incentives to long-term performance by reducing the maximum annual bonus opportunity from 150 per cent ofsalary to 120 per cent, and replacing the long-term incentive award of up to 200 per cent of salary in options with up to 250percent inperformance shares G Reviewing executive salaries in 2013 to ensure appropriately positioned vs. market, taking into account implications on the totalpackage, and move to annual reviews of salary taking into account increases for the rest of the Group, affordability, ensureappropriate competitiveness, and recognise experience, tenure and contribution of each executive G Rebalancing annual bonus measures to recognise that NAV is more appropriate in the long-term incentive, reward steady growth in earnings and prudent cost management, and recognise individual contribution: G one-third on adjusted EPS performance vs. budget G one-third on adjusted EPS performance vs. prior year G one-third on performance against a scorecard of up to five personal objectives.
Note, while 33 per cent of the annual bonus is based on personal objectives, this includes quantitatively assessed financial and operational measures specic to each role.
G Deferring 50 per cent of any earned bonus, and increase the deferral period from two years to half for two years and half for threeyears G Replacing EPS options with a new Performance Share Plan which rewards TSR and NAV performance.
This will improve shareholder alignment, and help ensure payouts are less all or nothing.
Performance will be measured one-third over three years, one-third over four years and one-third over five years, instead of 100 per cent over three years to provide balance between the typical executive time horizon and the longer time horizon of shopping centre investments.
Initial awards will be enhanced by 50per cent to ensure participants are not unduly disadvantaged by extending the performance period.
Half of awards vest by reference to Absolute Total Return 25 per cent minimum vesting for 6 per cent per annum: full vesting for 10 per cent per annum: straight-line vesting in between.
1 Half of awards vest by reference to TSR relative to the top 5 UK-listed REITS 25 per cent minimum vesting for TSR in line with thethird ranked company: full vesting for TSR in line with the top ranked company: straight-line vesting in between, subject to a Committee-operated discretionary assessment of underlying financial performance.
Entry vesting will be reduced from 33 per cent to 25 per cent to reect institutional shareholder preference.
Absolute Total Return i. e. NAV growth plus dividends is considered by the Company to be the best internal proxy for TSR and the best internal indicator of value creation.
Total Shareholder Return is the key objective of most of our shareholders.
For incentive purposes it is measured over three to five years relative to peers in order to isolate the impact of Intus managements contribution from external factors that affect all companies in the peer group.
G Increasing executive share ownership requirements from 100 per cent of salary to 200 per cent for the Chief Executive and to 150per cent for the Finance Director, and introducing a guideline for other executives to be achieved by retaining a proportion of vested share awards net of tax G Allowing the accrual of dividends on performance shares to improve shareholder alignment with respect to dividends G Aligning leaver and change-of-control provisions with best practice G Introducing clawback on unvested deferred bonus and LTIP awards.
1 British Land, Derwent, Hammerson, Land Securities, and SEGRO.
82 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Total remuneration in 2012 Building on disclosures provided last year, and to aid transparency to our shareholders, the table below sets out the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year to 31 December 2012 together with two ESOS awards which are subject to performance to 31 December 2012 but expected to vest in 2013.
ESOS: 2009 award 411,859 0 0 0 2010 award 126,863 0 94,156 0 The gures have been calculated as follows: 1 Base salary: amount earned for the year 2 Benets: the taxable value of annual benets received in the year 3 Pension: the value of the Companys contribution during the year 30 per cent salary supplement in lieu of contributions for the CEO, 24 per cent SIPP contribution, party taken as a salary supplement, for the FD.
4 Annual bonus: cash and deferred: the value at grant of the annual incentive payable for performance over 2012 5 ESOS: awards made in 2009 and 2010, subject to a 3- and 4-year vesting period respectively, vest subject to EPS performance to 31 December 2012.
Theseawards are expected to vest in full on 28 February 2013 and 26 May 2013, respectively.
Awards have been valued based on embedded gain and the3-month average share price to 31 December 2013 Directors remuneration and incentives Base salary Salaries of Executive Directors and other staff are reviewed annually in the light of competitive market practice, including reference to comparable data of other companies of a similar size and companies in the Real Estate sector.
When determining executive remuneration, the Committee takes careful account of pay and employment conditions in the Company as a whole.
The current salaries for Executive Directors are set out below and will be increased with effect from 1 April 2013 by 4.9 per cent toreect the policy of moving salary to median over time, supporting retention of critical talent, and recognising progression in therole: Executive Director 2012 salary 2013 salary % increase David Fischel 520,000 545,480 4.9% Matthew Roberts 400,000 419,600 4.9% Pensions The main benets are pension contributions, private healthcare and the provision of a company car or cash alternative.
Standard company contribution is 24 per cent of base salary.
The CEO receives an additional 6 per cent of salary in recognition of the additional value of the benefit foregone on the closure of the dened benefit scheme.
This amount was actuarially determined to becost-neutral to the Company.
Annual bonus The maximum award for both the CEO and FD in 2012 was 150 per cent of salary.
In 2012, the performance measures for the short-term incentive were weighted as illustrated by the following diagram: Performance metrics for 2012 short-term Incentive Growth in adjusted EPS 22% Relative Property Capital Return vs IPD Retail Index 22% Growth in NAV per share plus dividends 22% Strategic and Operational Objectives 34% Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 83 Directors remuneration report continued Performance against each of the measures for the 2012 short-term incentive arrangements is summarisedbelow: Remuneration Committee Performance element Weighting Target 2012 performance assessment Growth in NAV per share dividends reinvested 22% 5% 4.1% Below target Relative Property Capital Return 22% in line with IPD 6.4% Above target Growth in EPS adjusted for capital transactions 22% 2.4% Above target Assessed by Remuneration Committee against a scorecard for Strategic and Operational Objectives 34% each Executive Director Above target Not disclosed due to commercial sensitivity With regard to performance during the year against Strategic and Operational Objectives, the Committee noted the following achievements in particular: G High occupancy at 96 per cent: successful relettings offsetting impact of tenant failures representing 6 per cent of rent roll G Signed 169 long-term leases for 44 million: new annual rent at average of 7 per cent above previous passing rent G Active management and major extension projects pipeline now amounts to 1 billion programme over 10 years.
Individual short-term incentive outcomes A participants bonus is also based on the Remuneration Committees assessment of their individual contribution to the Groups performance during the year and the achievement of specic individual objectives, which are determined and communicated at the start of each year, and include key strategic, financial and operational goals.
For 2012, David Fischel and Matthew Roberts each received a total short-term incentive award of 105 per cent of salary 70percent of maximum opportunity, respectively.
Deferral into shares 76 per cent of the 2012 short-term incentive for both David Fischel and Matthew Roberts was deferred into Intu shares.
Employees must remain in employment with the Company for a period of two years three years for shares awarded under the SIP after the date of award before such shares arereleased.
The approximate deferred share awards to the Executive Directors, based on a share price of 3.55 per share, are as follows: SIP Deferred shares Name three year deferral two year deferral D. A. Fischel 845 116,338 E. M. G. Roberts 845 89,296 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Awards made during the year In March 2012, in line with the 2012 remuneration policy and as disclosed in the 2011 Directors remuneration report, David Fischel and Matthew Roberts received market value share option grants with a face value of 200 per cent ofsalary.
Vesting is based on three-year EPS growth ranging from 4 per cent p. a. to 6 per cent p. a.
100 per cent vests for growth of6per cent p. a. or higher: 33 per cent vests for growth of 4 per cent p. a. : awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between these levels.
Awards will lapse for growth of less than 4 per cent p. a.
As permitted under the rules of the Executive Share Option Scheme, both David Fischel and Matthew Roberts elected to receive their awards through a Joint Ownership Structure which required them to make an upfront contribution to acquire an interest in Intu shares.
Full details of historical ESOS grants are provided in the table on page 88.
Note, on a change-of-control or in the case of a good leaver, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to permit early vesting of ESOS awards and pro-rate for time and performance, as appropriate.
84 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Awards vesting during the year The standard performance condition for options granted between 2004 and 2011 is as follows: The Companys smoothed earnings are to grow over a three-year period at a rate in excess of 5 per cent per annum compound.
Smoothed earnings means the percentage increase in underlying earnings per share, adjusted by a excluding exceptional and valuation items and b limiting trading or non-recurring items to 10 per cent of profit before tax.
The base gure for comparison purposes in respect of both the 2009 and 2010 option grants is the smoothed earnings achieved, after adjustment for the demerger, as at 31 December 2009.
The smoothed EPS base gure was 13.9 pence.
Based on EPS performance to 31 December 2012 16.1 pence, the 2009 and 2010 ESOS awards are due to vest in full in February and May2013, respectively.
No 2011 ESOS awards are due to vest until 2014 subject to performance.
As noted above, the performance condition for grants of options in 2012 are based on a sliding scale of EPS performance.
Other share schemes The Company operates an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP which has in the past used funds provided to purchase shares required under the annual bonus scheme.
The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP for all eligible employees, including Executive Directors, who may receive up to 3,000 worth of shares as part of their annual bonus arrangements.
The SIP arrangements offer worthwhile tax advantages to employees and to the Company.
Also, as part of the SIP arrangements, the Company offers eligible employees the opportunity to participate in a Partnership share scheme, the terms of which are governed by HM Revenue & Customs regulations.
Exit payments made in year No payments for loss of office were paid to former Directors of the Company during 2012.
Total shareholdings of Directors In 2009 the Committee introduced a requirement for Executive Directors to build up, over a three to five-year period, and maintain ashareholding in the Company with a value equivalent to at least one years annual salary.
The chart below illustrates the value of Executive Directors shareholdings against the guideline of 100 per cent of salary.
The Committee reviewed this requirement as partof the root-and-branch review of policy carried out in 2012 and, as a result, the new requirement effective from 1 January 2013 is for the Executive Directors to build up, over a period of three to five years, a holding with a value equivalent to 200 per cent of salary David Fischel and 150 per cent of salary Matthew Roberts.
Shareholdings at 31 December 2012 against guidelines: Shareholdings at 31 December 2012 % of salary Actual holding as a percentage of base salary 2,000 Shares subject to deferral as a percentage of base salary Shares subject to performance conditions as a percentage of base salary 1,500 Individual shareholding guideline was increased for 2013 from 100 per cent of salary to 200 per cent for the Chief Executive and 150 per cent for the Finance Director.
Includes shares which have been held in the SIP trust for more than five years and are transferrable to Mr Fischel at any time free of tax and NI.
Includes shares held in the SIP trust for less than five years.
1,000 Shareholding Shareholding guideline 500 guideline 200% salary 150% salary % D. A. Fischel E. M. G. Roberts Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 85 Directors remuneration report continued Shareholder context The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2011 Directors remuneration report at the April 2012 AGM.
It is the Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes.
For Against Abstentions Votes 71.13% 28.67% 0.19% The main areas of shareholder concern were the continued use of a single-performance criteria and cliff-vesting for awards of options, and the Remuneration Committees discretion to accelerate the vesting of options on a change of control.
As noted in the 2011 Directors remuneration report, the Committee sought to address the issue of cliff-vesting by introducing a sliding scale performance condition for options awarded to the Executive Directors and senior executives in March 2012.
Long-term incentive awards for Executive Directors and senior executives made from 2013 onwards will be made under the new Performance Share Plan which provides for sliding scale vesting on two separate performance criteria measured over three, four and five-year periods.
The rules of the new Performance Share Plan provide that, on a change of control, awards of Performance Shares under the plan will vest to the extent that the Committee determines that any applicable performance conditions have been or would likely have been satisfied.
The number of shares to vest in such circumstances will also generally be reduced to reect a reduced service period.
The benets provided for the Chairman comprise medicalinsurance.
Aggregate emoluments exclude deferred share bonuses and pension contributions which are detailed below.
Deferred bonus is not included in this table.
In the case of Mr Fischel, the amount of deferred bonus for 2012 is 103,750 lower than for 2011, and for MrRoberts it is 63,250 lower.
1 Mr Fischel received a payment of 154,125 in lieu of accruing further benets under the Companys pension arrangements included in other.
2 In addition to the emoluments shown in the table above, Mr Roberts received contributions from the Company to his Self Invested Pension Plan of 93,900 having opted out from membership of the Groups dened contribution pensionplan.
3 In addition to his role as a Non-Executive Director, Mr Abel also provides consultancy services to the Group in respect of its investments in India.
Mr Abel receives consultancy fees at a rate of 1,000 per day, and received total fees of 11,000 shown in other during 2012 under the consultancy arrangements.
4 Mr Whittaker did not receive any remuneration in 2012 in connection with his position as Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
5 Mr Henderson stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 25 April 2012.
Mr Henderson was appointed as a member of the Capital Projects Committee with effect from 2 May 2012 and received fees of 7,500 in respect of this appointment in 2012 included in other.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The Chairman receives a fee of 400,000 per annum.
The current base fee for Non-Executive Directors is 55,000 per annum, increased from 52,500 p. a. on 1 April 2012.
TheSenior Independent Director receives an additional fee of 10,000 per annum.
Committee chairmen receive 15,000 per annum, increased from 10,000 on 1 April 2012, and Committee members receive 5,000 per annum.
86 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Five-year TSR chart The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Intu Properties plc over the five-year period ended 31December 2012, compared with our closest comparator group for this purpose, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
TSR is dened as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Five-year Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 150 100 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Intu FTSE 350 Real Estate FTSE 100 Other directorships Executive Directors are not generally encouraged to hold external directorships unless the Chairman determines that such appointment is in the Groups interest and does not cause any conict of interest.
Where such appointments are approved and held, it is a matter for the Director in question and the Chairman to agree whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
David Fischel currently holds three external directorships.
In two cases he receives and retains the fees.
His principal external appointment is as a non-executive director of US company Equity One, Inc, in which Intu retains an investment through a joint venture company EQY-CSC LLC.
Mr Fischel also holds another external appointment as a non-executive director of Marlowe Investments Kent Limited, a UK private company which relates to Mr Fischels family affairs and does not require any signicanttime commitment and does not conict in any way with Mr Fischels role as Chief Executive of Intu.
Mr Fischel is also aNon-Executive Director of Prozone Capital Shopping Centres Limited, an Indian shopping centre owner and developer in which Intu has a 33 per cent interest.
Mr Fischel does not receive a fee in respect of this appointment.
During 2012, Mr Fischel received a fee of $50,500 in respect of his directorship of Equity One, Inc. Mr Fischel retained the fees paidin respect of his appointment.
In addition to his fee, restricted stock in Equity One, Inc. awarded to Mr Fischel vested during theyear with a value on vesting of $69,217.50.
Mr Fischel also received and retained a fee of 5,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Marlowe Investments Kent Limited.
Quasi-loan to Director All employees of the Group are entitled to an interest-free travel season ticket loan which is repaid over the year via deductions from salary.
Neither Mr Fischel nor Mr Roberts received a season ticket or other loan from the Group during 2012.
Payments to former Directors A Life Presidency fee of 150,000 2011 150,000 was paid to Sir Donald Gordon, the Groups Life President and former Chairman who founded the Company in 1980.
The Life Presidency fee was agreed by the Board at the time of his retirement in July 2005 in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the Group.
The payment is guaranteed under a legally binding Deed, and is payable annually for the remainder of Sir Donalds life, Sir Donald Gordon is 82 and remains a major shareholder.
In addition, the Company entered into a consultancy agreement with Sir Donald following his retirement.
The consultancy arrangements ceased on 30 June 2011 and no further payments have been made.
Mrs Kay Chaldecott resigned from the Board on 30 September 2011 but continues to provide consultancy services to the Group, relating to new business opportunities, development projects and senior retailer relations.
These consultancy services are provided under the terms of a two-year Consultancy Agreement which will terminate in October 2013.
During 2012, MrsChaldecott received a total of 80,000 in respect of such consultancy arrangements.
Further payments of a total of 66,666 are anticipated to be made to Mrs Chaldecott in 2013 in respect of the remaining term of the Consultancy Agreement.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 87 Directors remuneration report continued Mr Ian Henderson stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 25 April 2012.
Mr Henderson was appointed as a member oftheCapital Projects Committee on 2 May 2012 and receives an annual fee of 3,000 plus 1,500 per meeting attended.
MrHendersons Capital Projects Committee fees for 2012 are shown in the Emoluments table on page 86.
Alternate Directors Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine serve as alternate Directors to John Whittaker and Richard Gordon respectively.
Neither MrUnderwood nor Mr Fine received any fees in 2012 in respect of their appointment as alternate Directors.
Mr Fine received a fee of 156,875 in respect of consultancy services provided to the Company in connection with South African tax and shareholder issues particularly in respect of South African dividends tax, liaison with the Gordon Family and other related matters.
Summary of share awards tables Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys Approved and Unapproved share option schemes and the proposed new Performance Share Plan PSP.
No awards have yet been made under the PSP which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Pre-adjustment exercise price was 359 pence.
The market price of Intu Properties plc ordinary shares as at 31 December 2012 was 350.2 pence and during the year the price varied between 300.9 pence and 365.6 pence.
The interests of Directors in conditional awards of ordinary shares under the annual bonus scheme are detailed in note 52 on pages137 and 138.
On behalf of the Board Neil Sachdev Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2013 88 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Group and Company for the year ended31December 2012.
Principal activities Under a 375 million Revolving Facility agreement dated During the period the principal activity of Intu Properties plc 25February 2009 as amended by amendment agreements Intu was that of an investment holding company incorporated dated 2 October 2009 and 19 February 2010, and further in the United Kingdom whose business is the management of a amended and restated on 18 November 2011 between, portfolio of investments in the property sector predominantly, amongst others, the Company and HSBC Bank PLC as Agent, but not exclusively, in the United Kingdom.
Intu has been a Real on a change of control, if directed by a lender, the Agent may by Estate Investment Trust REIT since 1 January 2007. notice to the Company cancel the commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender in all outstanding Intu is a specialist developer, owner and manager of pre-eminent loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts UK regional shopping centres.
accrued and owing to that lender under the finance documents, immediately due and payable.
Business review Under the terms and conditions of the 300 million 2.5 per cent The Chairmans statement on pages 10 to 12, the Business Guaranteed Convertible Bonds issued on 4 October 2012 by review on pages 31 to 41, the Financial review on pages 44 to 49, Intu Jersey Limited formerly Capital Shopping Centres the Key performance indicators on pages 20 and 21, and Key Jersey Limited the Issuer and guaranteed by the Company, risks and uncertainties on pages 26 and 27 provide detailed on a change of control of the Company bondholders would have information relating to the Group, the operation, development a right for a limited period of 60 days to exercise their exchange and future prospects of the business, the results and financial rights at an enhanced exchange price i. e. lower than the position for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the principal prevailing exchange price.
In addition, bondholders would risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Corporate become entitled for a limited period of 60 days to require the responsibility review on pages 51 to 57 contains information Issuer to redeem their bonds at their principal amount, together about environmental matters, the Groups employees and social with accrued and unpaid interest.
The Financial review, accounting policies on pages 102 to 105 and note 35 on pages 122 to 126 The Company is not party to any other significant agreements contain information on the use of financial instruments.
that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
Dividends The Company does not have any agreements with any Executive The Directors declared an interim ordinary dividend of 5.0 pence Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss 2011 5.0 pence per share on 26 July 2012, which was paid on of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that 20 November 2012, and have recommended a final ordinary provisions of the Company share schemes may cause options dividend of 10.0 pence per share 2011 10.0 pence.
and awards outstanding under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Share capital and control of the Company Directors currently provide for a payment equal to their basic Details of the Companys share capital including changes during annual fee in the event of change of control in recognition of the year in the issued share capital and details of the rights theadditional work involved in such an event, however this attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in note 38 entitlement is to be replaced in the first half of 2013 by an on page 127.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special agreement to recompense the Directors for any additional time rights with regards to control of the Company.
Shares held by commitment in certain limited circumstances, to be calculated the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan rank pari passu on a per diem basis.
with the shares in issue and have no special rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the Going concern shares rest with the Plans Trustee and are not exercisable by After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable the employees.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements resources to continue in operational existence for the by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights are foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the held by a person other than the shareholder, or any agreements going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
between shareholders known to the Company which may result Shareholders attention is drawn to the going concern disclosure in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
contained in the Notes to the accounts on page 102.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 89 Directors report continued Internal control Articles of Association The statement on corporate governance on pages 63 to 73 The rules governing the appointment and replacement includes the Boards assessment following a review of internal ofDirectors are contained in the Companys Articles controls and consideration of the 2005 Financial Reporting ofAssociation.
Councils internal control guidance for Directors.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from Directors time to time.
The Directors of Intu who held office during the year were asfollows: Substantial shareholdings Chairman: As at 22 February 2013 Intu had been notied of the following D. P. H. Burgess substantial holdings of voting rights over ordinary shares ofIntu: Deputy Chairman: G The Peel Group 173,566,817 19.99 per cent 1 J. Whittaker G Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 126,312,499 Executive: 14.54 per cent D. A. Fischel G The family interests of Sir Donald Gordon 92,143,203 E. M. G. Roberts 10.61per cent Non-Executive: G Public Investment Corporation 36,870,928 4.25 per cent J. G. Abel 1 G BlackRock, Inc. 34,952,303 4.03 per cent R. M. Gordon A. J. M. Huntley Employees Lady Patten Intu actively encourages employee involvement and R. O. Rowley consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees N. Sachdev informed of the Companys activities and financial performance A. D. Strang by such means as employee briengs and publication to all staff Retired during the year: of relevant information and corporate announcements.
In 2012, I. J. Henderson stepped down 25 April 2012 Intu conducted an all employee survey covering a range of 1 Mr Whittaker and Mr Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and topics to which 88 per cent of staff responded.
Raymond Fine respectively as their alternates under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association.
The annual bonus arrangements help develop employees Adle Anderson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on interest in the Companys performance: full details of these 22 February 2013. arrangements are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 88.
Note 52 on pages 137 to 138 contains details In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate of conditional awards of shares under the annual bonus scheme Governance Code, all Directors are subject to re-election at the and bonus shares currently outstanding, as well as outstanding forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Intu operates a non-discriminatory employment policy and full Company has indemnified the Directors to the full extent and fair consideration is given to applications for employment allowed by law.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers from people with disabilities or other protected characteristics insurance which is reviewed annually.
under the Equality Act where they have the appropriate skills Additional information relating to the Directors can be found in and abilities and to the continued employment of staff who note 52 on pages 137 and 138 on Directors interests, in the become disabled.
Corporate governance report on pages 64 to 73, and in the Intu encourages the continuous development and training of Directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 88. itsemployees and the provision of equal opportunities for the The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation training and career development of disabled employees and and the Articles of Association of the Company, together with those with protected characteristics.
any specic authorities that may be given to the Directors by Further information relating to employees is given on shareholders from time to time, such as the power to allot pages22to25 and in note 10 on page 107.
The Group shares and the power to make market purchases of the providesretirement benets for the majority of its employees.
Companys shares which are described in note 38 on page 127.
Details of the Group pension arrangements are set out in note50 on page 136.
90 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility The environment Directors disclosure of information to the auditors We have developed a Corporate Responsibility CR strategy So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit and details of our policies and the Groups aims alongside the information of which the auditors are unaware and each latest full version of our annual CR report are to be found on the Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or Companys website.
An overview of the Groups CR activity is herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish printed on pages 51 to 57, and a summary booklet is also that the auditors are aware of that information.
available for download from the website or on request from the Company Secretarys office.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their The Company recognises the importance of minimising the willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking to adverse impact on the environment of its operations and the reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual obligation to carefully manage energy and water consumption General Meeting.
The Company strives continuously to improve its environmental Annual General Meeting performance.
The Environmental Management System and The notice convening the 2013 Annual General Meeting of the associated Environmental Policy and Guide are regularly Company will be published separately and will be available on reviewed to ensure that the Company maintains its the Companys website and distributed to those shareholders commitment to environmental matters.
who have elected to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
Charitable donations By order of the Board During the year, the Group made charitable donations amounting to 335,000 2011 332,000.
In addition, the directly managed shopping centres provided the equivalent of1,114,000 2011 1,394,000 in support, including Susan Marsden stafftime working in the community and the provision of free Secretary mall space and services.
They facilitated a further 468,000 2011 406,000 through collections by charities on the malls.
27 February 2013 Thetotal cash equivalent community support for the year was 1,917,000 2011 2,132,000.
No political donations were made in the year.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company does not ordinarily pay its creditors directly as this is carried out by other companies in the Group.
As a result, the Company has a nil trade creditor balance and it is not practical to calculate creditor days for the Company as at 31December 2012 2011 nil trade creditor balance.
Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 91
