Directors remuneration report Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear Shareholder, This has been a busy year for the Remuneration Committee.
The year started well for your Company.
Our 2010 11 results were well received.
confidence in the economic recovery was returning, which was reected both in terms of property values and lettings.
The performance targets set by the Committee for bonus payments reected that confidence.
We set ambitious targets for development lettings in both the London and Retail portfolios.
We set a target for a small net investment during the year.
In addition, we set targets for outperformance of IPD and revenue profit.
The targets reected our significant development programme and our desire to maintain income.
The eurozone crisis brought more caution into the economy and into the property markets in which we operate.
It became clear that the targets we set at the beginning of the year would become much harder to achieve.
The caution meant tenants were more reluctant to take space and we became a less willing investor.
Hence, the net investment target became more difficult to attain as value, from our perspective, became more difficult to nd.
IPD benchmark outperformance also became harder to achieve, with the Groups focus turning to asset management and achieving higher sales prices in order to drive outperformance and improve balance sheet exibility for the future.
Despite the change in outlook, the targets set at the beginning of the year were not adjusted and our people have had to work much harder to achieve them.
Despite the tremendous efforts of our employees in this difficult environment our business outturn has not been as good as we had hoped or had achieved in the previous year.
The Group bonus pool is down as a result.
The appointment of Robert Noel as the Groups Chief Executive has led to a reduction of Executive Directors from four to three.
The corresponding changes to management responsibilities meant that changes to the incentive structure for Executive Directors were necessary.
Rather than make gradual changes over the course of a number of years, the Committee commissioned a wholesale review.
This gave us the opportunity to address elements of our incentive package, such as the Additional Bonus and Discretionary Bonuses, which some shareholders disliked.
It has also enabled us to propose the introduction of a clawback mechanism into our incentive schemes.
The outcome of the review is a proposed shift in the balance of the incentive structure away from discretionary payments and outperformance of our IPD weighted benchmarks, towards relative shareholder return and a package that is longer term in nature.
We believe our proposals will improve the alignment of executives with the interests of long term shareholders and are seeking shareholder approval for them at this years AGM.
We have been particularly conscious of the current environment for pay in listed companies, closely monitoring the Government consultations on executive pay and governance policy statements from our shareholders.
Before settling on these proposals, we entered into extensive engagement with our top 20 shareholders, who together hold nearly 50% of our shares.
We are very grateful for their time and their input, which has informed our thinking and led to a number of changes.
Full details of the review appear in Section 6 of this report.
82 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report In their feedback, investors also asked for more information.
This included a comparison between the salary of our Chief Executive and the average for our employees, more detail on the calculation of performance conditions for incentives and details of our on target and maximum pay.
We have included all of this, and more, within our report and hope you nd it helpful.
The Committee also considered the remuneration of our outgoing Chief Executive, Francis Salway at two specially convened meetings.
The Committee allowed one tranche of Long Term Incentives to vest on his leaving the Group on 31 March 2012.
These would ordinarily have vested in June and July 2012.
Francis remained our Chief Executive for the whole of the year under review and was awarded a bonus, in line with our policy.
The Committee allowed the early vesting of two tranches of deferred bonus shares which had been purchased using cash withheld from bonuses in previous years.
No other payments were made to him upon departure.
More details of these appear in the At A Glance Section and in Section 3, where we explain the rationale for the payments and the calculation of the performance conditions.
More details of the work of the Committee follows and we hope you nd it helpful in understanding our remuneration policy and practice.
David Rough Chairman, Remuneration Committee Land Securities Annual Report 2012 83 Directors remuneration report At a glance Salary Paid and Bonus Payments for Directors New Proposals to Alter the Structure of Executive Remuneration and Introduce a Clawback Mechanism EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SALARY AND There have not been any changes to the Committees remuneration policy for the ANNUAL BONUSES FOR THE YEAR TABLE 58 2011 12 year under review.
Annual bonus, Section 6 of this report contains the Committees proposals to alter the including any discretionary Annual bonus structure of Executive Director remuneration with effect from the financial year Annual bonus, paid deferred into 000 salary in cash shares 2012 13.
The section includes the Committees rationale for the changes and the F W Salway 665 481 steps it has taken to ensure that the proposals are appropriate, that the R J Akers 400 405 249 performance conditions are stretching and that the outcomes are aligned to the interests of investors.
In summary: M F Greenslade 435 331 77 The proposals simplify the existing remuneration structure and better align R M Noel 425 308 81 the pay of Executive Directors to the performance of the Group as a whole 1.
Annual bonuses comprise both a cash element and an element which will be deferred into the Companys shares.
The annual cash and deferred bonus columns, for R J Akers, each include 171,000 that relates to the out There is a reduction in the overall maximum value of annual and long term performance of the Retail Portfolio against its IPD benchmark for the financial year 2010 11, but paid in 2011 12. incentives from 500% to 450% of basic salary 3.
R J Akers is potentially entitled to an additional bonus of 50% of salary for the 2011 12 financial year as the performance of the Retail Portfolio exceeded the relevant IPD benchmark in absolute terms by 2.5%.
If the Discretionary bonuses, of up to 50% of basic salary, are removed performance criteria for the financial year 2012 13 is also met, half of the payment would become due in cash in June 2013 and half deferred into the Companys shares for a period of two years.
Additional Bonuses of up to 200% of basic salary are also removed Annual bonuses, currently up to 100% of basic salary, are increased to 150% with amounts above 50% and 100% automatically deferred into shares for one In Section 3, we provide a detailed explanation as to how each bonus was earned, and two years, respectively together with additional information showing how pay during the year compared Long Term Incentive Plan Awards and Matching Performance Share Awards are with on target and maximum amounts.
increased from 100% of salary, for each, to 150% of salary for each For the coming year, only two Executive Directors, Martin Greenslade and The balance of the incentive structure shifts away from discretionary payments Richard Akers, will receive annual salary increases.
Francis Salway retired on 31 and outperformance of our IPD weighted benchmarks towards relative total March 2012, with his successor, Robert Noel, not being eligible for a salary increase shareholder return, which will improve executive alignment with shareholders until 1 July 2013.
The shift in emphasis from annual bonuses to awards under the Long Term The average increase awarded to those two directors was 4.15% as against an Incentive Schemes and the increase in bonus deferral means that the incentive average of 3.77% for the rest of the Group.
The average increase over 5 years including package becomes more long term these increases, has been 2.7% for Mr Greenslade and 2.4% for Mr Akers.
An Clawback provisions are to be introduced, which give the Committee authority explanation of the rationale for these pay increases appears in Section 3 of this report.
to clawback, from future awards, overpayments of bonus or an excess vesting Salary increases take effect from 1 July 2012. of a share award caused by a misstatement of the Companys results or a Section 3 also contains detail on the process undertaken by the Committee in performance condition setting the salary for our new Chief Executive.
Implementation of these proposals is subject to shareholders approving certain No increases were awarded to our Non-executive Directors, whose fees have changes to the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan proposed at the Companys not increased since October 2009.
Our Chairman has not received an increase since forthcoming AGM.
Pay Around the Group EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SALARIES TABLE 59 The average pay increase for employees other than Directors was 3.77%, as against Average % 4.15% for the two Executive Directors who received annual increases.
The ratio of increase over 5 years the salary of our Chief Executive to the average salary across the Group excluding including From 1 July 2011 12 Directors is 12:1.
000 Current 2012 % increase 2012 13 More details of pay and benets around the Group are set out in Section 5.
F W Salway 665 R M Noel 680 680 n a Payments to our Outgoing Chief Executive M F Greenslade 435 460 5.8% 2.7% Following Francis Salways decision to resign his position as Chief Executive, the R J Akers 400 410 2.5% 2.4% Committee agreed to allow his Long Term Incentive Plan awards that had been due F W Salway retired as Chief Executive on 31 March 2012.
R M Noel was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2012 and his salary will next be reviewed in 2013. to vest in June and July 2012 to vest on 31 March 2012, which was his leaving date.
In line with the Companys policy that applies to all employees, since Mr Salway had worked for the whole of the 2011 12 financial year, the Committee exercised its discretion to award him a bonus for the 2011 12 financial year.
The Committee also allowed the vesting of Deferred Bonus Shares awarded in 2010 and 2011, which had been purchased using part of his bonus award that was deferred in those years.
All other share and incentive awards lapsed and he did not receive any pay in lieu of notice or other payment.
Full details of the payments and the Committees rationale for these payments are set out in Section 3.
84 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report The Chief Executive and Human Resources Director were invited to attend 1.
The Remuneration Committee, meetings of the Committee.
No Director was involved in any decision relating to his its Role and Governance or her own remuneration.
As set out in the Corporate Governance Section of this report, a review of the Committees performance was undertaken by the Chairman Compliance of the Board, with the assistance of the Group General Counsel and Company This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee Secretary.
The Committees performance had been reviewed externally by in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules of the Financial Independent Audit Limited in 2010, who followed this up in 2011 with a review of Services Authority and The Large and Medium Companies and Groups Accounts matters raised during their initial evaluation.
The Committees performance will be and Reports Regulations 2008.
In accordance with those Regulations, this report reviewed externally again during the coming year.
has been approved by the Board and will be submitted to shareholders for consideration at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 19 July 2012.
Activities and Highlights The Committee complies with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate During the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee considered a number Governance Code.
of matters, including:  LLP has audited Tables 7276 and associated A complete review of every aspect of remuneration for Executive Directors footnotes.
and senior managers, resulting in the proposals summarised in section 6.
The implementation of clawback arrangements Responsibilities and Terms of Reference The proportion of remuneration generated from the Groups performance The Committee is responsible for: against IPD as opposed to other measures Determining the overall strategy for the remuneration of Executive Directors Research compiled by the Committees independent consultants benchmarking and Senior Managers and for ensuring that this is aligned with the Companys Executive Director and Senior Manager salaries strategy and the wider business environment so that the outturn of Salary increases for Executive Directors and Senior Managers, together with performance conditions reects the performance of the business overall levels of salary increases across the Group Designing a policy to execute its strategy Achievement against business unit and personal targets under the annual bonus Determining the individual remuneration packages for executive directors and scheme for Executive Directors and Senior Managers senior managers Achievement against the performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Overseeing any significant changes to employee benets across the Group, and Matching Performance Share Plans including pensions The determination of certain share awards to Francis Salway under the good Approving the design of and targets for performance-related incentive schemes leaver provisions in the scheme rules reviewing his performance against targets Overseeing the operation of all incentive schemes and awards and determining and the calculation of payments made to him whether performance criteria have been met Proposed share incentive awards to Executive Directors and senior managers The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
Directors compliance with the Companys Share Ownership Guidelines.
Remuneration Policy and Both the Group Human Resources Director and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary provided information and advice to the Committee Components throughout the year.
The Committee has appointed and received advice, on In this Section, we outline our strategy and policy and then examine the remuneration and ancillary legal matters, from New Bridge Street NBS, an components of our remuneration package, explaining why each of them has been AON Hewitt company, and also made use of various published surveys to help chosen and why we believe our performance conditions are stretching and aligned determine appropriate remuneration levels.
NBS has voluntarily signed up to the with the interests of shareholders.
Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and has no other connection with There have not been any changes in remuneration policy or awards made the Land Securities Group.
during the course of the year under review, although changes are proposed for the The Committee intends to conduct a benchmarking review of its following year.
These are set out in section 6. remuneration and benefit consultants work during the course of the coming year.
Remuneration Strategy Membership and Meetings Land Securities primary aim is to produce returns for our shareholders that are The Committee is chaired by David Rough.
superior to those of our competitors, both in the short and long term.
That is why The other members of the Committee during the year were Sir Stuart Rose, a significant proportion of our incentives only pay out if we outperform our Alison Carnwath, Simon Palley, who joined the Committee on 10 May 2011 and competitors.
In order to do this, we need to do a number of things well.
We need to Bo Lerenius, who stepped down from the Board and the Committee on 21 July 2011. buy well, sell well, develop well, manage our assets through the property cycle well, Alison Carnwath is not classied as an independent Non-executive Director for the and ensure we have the right financial exibility and appropriate gearing.
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, solely by virtue of her being the Our people are key to achieving this.
We need to ensure that we attract and retain Chairman of the Board, however she was an independent Non-executive Director the best people throughout the organisation and the remuneration package we at the time of her appointment as Chairman.
All of the other members were and offer is one of the ways in which we do that.
Our package is designed to: remain independent Non-executive Directors.
Attract, retain and motivate high quality management, recognising that the The Committee met four times during the course of the year.
All of the members Group operates in a competitive market for talent attended all of the meetings.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 85 Directors remuneration report Align the interests of Executive Directors and Senior Managers with those Long Term Incentive Plan rewards for Executive Directors are aligned with our of shareholders long term business objectives and value created for shareholders in excess of Be fair, transparent and easily understood by the Companys stakeholders, that created by general increases in the value of property or shares which include its Directors, employees and investors alike 25% of any annual bonus will be deferred into the Companys shares for three Be in a form that can be applied consistently across the Group to support a high years.
50% of any award made in relation to exceptional outperformance performance culture aligned to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
against property industry benchmarks is deferred into the Companys shares for two years.
Deferral operates as a strong retention tool Within five years of joining the Board, all Executive Directors must own shares Remuneration Policy with a value of at least one and a half times their basic salary and, in the case of In order to achieve its strategy, the Committees policy is to: the Chief Executive, twice his basic salary.
In practical terms, at current tax rates, Set base salary at around median of the relevant market competitive level our Chief Executive is required to hold shares with a value in excess of four times Ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance.
his net annual basic salary.
Accordingly, a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration is delivered through performance related pay, with incentives to outperform Fixed and Variable Pay industry performance benchmarks and the total shareholder return of our peers Agree and set challenging business targets for the Executive Directors and their In the year under review, each of the Executive Directors remuneration comprised direct reports, both on an annual and longer term basis the following elements of xed and variable pay, shown as a proportion of basic pay: Ensure an appropriate balance between short and long term and xed and variable rewards FIXED AND VARIABLE PAY CHART 60 Ensure further alignment with longer term investor goals by ensuring deferral 700 of part of the annual bonus and requiring Executive Directors to make and Basic Salary maintain significant investments in the Companys shares in order to maximise 600 Annual Bonus their Matching Performance Share Awards Discretionary Bonus 500 Engage with investors and ensure their views and those of other stakeholders Long Term Incentive Plan 400 are reected in the remuneration package offered.
and Matching Award 300 Additional Bonus 200 Benchmarking Variable 100 Remuneration packages for Executive Directors are benchmarked by the Committee Fixed 0 using research prepared by NBS.
The research is carried out by creating two On Target Maximum comparator groups.
The first is a group of listed Real Estate and Utilities companies which have a high xed asset value relative to their market capitalisation and are considered good comparators for the Company and the second group consists of Components of Variable Remuneration and Performance companies with a similar market capitalisation to the Company.
Criteria in 2011 2012 The benchmarking shows that the current Executive Directors salary levels Executive Director remuneration comprises xed pay, which includes basic salary, are below the median benchmarks for first group of comparator companies and pension allowance and benets in kind and variable pay comprising bonus and well below those of companies within the second group.
participation in the Companys Long Term Incentive Plans.
The Committee also has responsibility for pay awards and policy across the Group, with particular focus on the remuneration of senior managers, whose pay i Bonus Arrangements is also the subject of benchmarking research prepared by NBS.
The Committee The bonus arrangements for Executive Directors comprise three elements.
ensures, where appropriate, that the types of incentives offered to senior managers The first is the Annual Bonus and is based on the achievement of business are similar to those offered to Executive Directors, with similar performance and targets that vary between Executive Directors, with a maximum award of 100% of vesting criteria.
The second is a Discretionary Bonus paying up to 50% of basic salary and designed to reward an exceptional achievement or the establishment or Alignment with Shareholders successful execution of a key initiative neither of which would be fully reected by The Remuneration Committees objective is to align individual reward with the the Annual Bonus mechanism.
The third element rewards an outstanding total Groups performance both in the short and long term.
The remuneration package return performance relative to key IPD benchmarks with the award of up to 200% we offer our Executive Directors seeks to do this in the following way: of basic salary.
Basic salaries are set to reect an individuals ongoing performance and The first two elements are subject to an overall aggregate cap of 130% of basic contribution to the business salary, with the overall amount capped at 300% of basic salary.
Annual bonuses tailored to reward high performance against key short and long term objectives and superior relative performance of the Group compared with property industry benchmarks 86 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report Annual Bonus The purpose of the additional bonus is to encourage Executive Directors to strive Executive Directors may receive a bonus of up to 100% of salary, with 80% of that for material outperformance every year.
The Committee designed the bonus based on the performance against key targets for the areas of the business for which targets that applied to this element of the Executive Directors bonus opportunity they are responsible.
The Committee calibrates the targets for each Executive so that the performance targets are signicantly above that required for other Director so that the achievement of a maximum payout under this part of the bonus bonus opportunities, with outperformance of the IPD benchmark by more than 2% arrangements would represent performance in excess of the Group budget and being required before any payout is made, with the maximum payout requiring individual targets.
These targets are considered at and approved by the full Board.
Any payout is conditional upon the relative performance in The remaining 20% is based upon the achievement of objectively measurable, the following year exceeding the IPD benchmark or delivering outperformance over personal key performance targets, in common with every employee within the two years of at least 1% per annum.
Accordingly, the Committees assessment for any award under this category includes a forward looking measure so that the Group.
no bonus payments will be made until the subsequent years outturn for TPR All targets are set at the beginning of the year.
At present, 25% of any bonus awarded under this heading is automatically deferred into the Companys shares performance becomes available.
and receives a Matching Performance Share Award under the terms of the For the year under review, the relevant benchmark for Richard Akers is the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Retail business total property return and for Robert Noel, the relevant London The bonus criteria for the year under review is set out in section 3, together business total property return.
The relevant benchmark for Francis Salway and with individual Directors performance against those targets.
For the coming year, Martin Greenslade is the aggregate of the London and Retail business.
the criteria for annual bonuses for all Executive Directors are based on the 50% of any award will be deferred into the Companys shares for two years, Companys relative performance against IPD, its performance against targets which means that vesting takes place three years from the year to which the for revenue profit and on the achievement of key business targets.
In addition, each Executive Director has a number of objectively measureable personal targets.
ii Long Term Incentive Share Plans Long Term Incentive Plan Awards Discretionary Bonus for Exceptional Performance In the year under review, each Executive Director received a conditional award If shareholders approve the changes to remuneration set out in the circular of shares of 100% of salary, which was in line with the Committees current attached to this annual report, the Discretionary Bonus will be withdrawn for grant policy.
Executive Directors with effect from the beginning of the 2012 13 financial year.
Matching Performance Share Plan Awards Executive Directors have also been eligible to participate in a discretionary In addition, Matching Performance Share Awards are available to Executive bonus pool available for all employees.
If they are selected to participate by the Committee, the award will usually be in the range of 5-30% of salary, though Directors on the basis of their investment in the Companys shares.
These awards in exceptional circumstances can be up to 50% of basic salary.
are subject to the same performance criteria as for LTIP awards.
Following feedback from shareholders, the Committee set criteria for the 25% of any cash bonus awarded to an Executive Director in relation to his award of discretionary bonuses, which will only be awarded by the Committee performance against business unit and personal targets is automatically deferred where there has been exceptional achievement in a specic area or the into the Companys shares on a pre-tax basis and attracts a Matching establishment or successful execution of a strategic initiative.
The maximum Performance Share Award.
This consists of an award of two shares for every one award from this element of the bonus pool is 500,000, in aggregate, for all share committed in this way.
Executive Directors may increase the number of shares committed to a The Company operates a separate discretionary bonus pool open to all maximum of 50% of their salary calculated on a pre-tax basis by purchasing employees other than Executive Directors, details of which are set out in section 5. shares in the market out of taxed income or using existing unpledged shares.
The aggregate amount of the pool is 1m, with awards normally made to no more Any pledged shares will attract a Matching Performance Share Award on a two for than 10% of the Groups employees.
The awards are not capped, but are usually one basis so that the maximum Matching Performance Share Award is equivalent not more than 30% of basic salary and are made on the basis of an exceptional to 100% of salary.
The calculation of Matching Performance Share Awards is made single achievement or outstanding all round performance.
on a pre-tax basis so, assuming a personal tax rate of 50%, a purchase of 25 shares out of net income will be grossed up to 50 shares and attract a Matching Performance Share Award of 100 shares, subject to the achievement of the relevant Additional Bonus Opportunity If shareholders approve the changes to remuneration set out in the circular vesting conditions.
attached to this Annual Report, the Additional Bonus Opportunity will be withdrawn with effect from the beginning of the 2012 13 financial year.
Performance Criteria for Long Term Incentive Plan and Matching Performance This part of Executive Directors annual bonus opportunity is intended to Share Awards reward exceptional outperformance and creation of value for shareholders.
Awards of LTIP Performance Shares and Matching Performance Shares are subject Any award will be made as a result of material outperformance of the industry to the same performance conditions, for all recipients, and are measured over performance benchmark, not as a result of a general increase in the value of 3 years by the Committee and are designed to reward outperformance.
There is no property assets.
re-testing of these awards, so that if the targets are not met on first testing, the Total Property Return TPR was chosen as a key performance measure for the awards lapse.
investment portfolio element of the business because it is used both internally and externally within the property sector as a measurement of relative performance.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 87 Directors remuneration report Relative Ungeared Total Property Return TPR Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR Half of any award will vest based on the Groups Ungeared TPR equalling or The remaining 50% of the vesting criteria is based on Land Securities three year exceeding the IPD weighted indices that reect the sector mix of Land Securities TSR performance share price increase plus reinvested dividends compared against investment portfolio.
an index formed by weighting the TSR performance of the property companies The target range for this measure is: within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index by their market capitalisations at the Performance equal to the sector weighted IPD index 12.5% of the award vests beginning of the performance period excluding Land Securities.
Performance equal to the sector weighted IPD index 1% per annum 50% of The TSR measure has been adopted by the Committee as it aligns the interests the initial award vests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders by targeting outperformance of Straight line vesting occurs between these points the Companys comparator group of listed property companies.
Performance below the sector weighted IPD index the 50% proportion of the The target range for this measure is: LTIP grant will lapse in full.
Performance equal to the comparator group 15% of the award vests Performance equal to the comparator group 4% per annum 50% of the Ungeared TPR was chosen as a key performance measure for the investment initial award vests portfolio element of the business because it is used both internally and externally Straight line vesting occurs between these points within the property sector as a measurement of relative performance.
The measure Performance below the comparator group the 50% proportion of the LTIP does not reward general movements in the value of commercial property, only grant will lapse in full.
Outperformance of this measure can create considerable value for Shareholders.
On the basis of a portfolio valued at Based on a market capitalisation of 5.5 billion, an average 4% relative 10.5 billion, an average 1% pa relative outperformance across the portfolio over outperformance of TSR over three years would generate approximately 700 three years would generate approximately 315 million of value beyond that million of value for Shareholders beyond that achieved by our comparator group.
created by the equivalent value of property in the sector weighted index.
UNGEARED TPR PERFORMANCE CONDITION TSR VESTING CURVE % OF OVERALL LTIP GRANT VESTING UNAUDITED TABLE 61 % OF OVERALL GRANT VESTING UNAUDITED TABLE 62 50% 50% 15% 12.5% 0% 1% 0% 4% % p. a. above weighted index of comparator companies % p. a. above weighted index of comparator companies 88 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report The Groups comparator groups for the beginning of each 3 year period from 1 April The following tables illustrate the performance of awards made under the Groups 2009 are set out below.
long term incentive plans over the last five years.
The first shows the actual performance of awards vesting between June 2008 and March 2012.
The vesting COMPARATOR GROUPS UNAUDITED TABLE 63 criteria for these awards was based equally on the Groups performance against Comparator Groups 1 April 2009 1 April 2010 1 April 2011 1 April 2012 Ungeared TPR and Normalised Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, an adjusted The British Land earnings per share measure which was replaced by the TSR measure following the Company PLC 9 9 9 9 disposal of our Trillium business.
Big Yellow Group PLC 9 9 9 9 For awards made in 2009 and vesting after April 2012, the Group adopted Capital and Counties a new performance measure, based on the Groups performance against TPR Properties PLC 9 9 9 and TSR.
Capital Shopping Centres Table 65 shows the approximate performance of LTIP and Matching Group PLC 9 9 9 Performance Share Awards that would have vested between the years 2008 and Daejan Holdings PLC 9 9 9 9 2011 had the current TPR and TSR performance conditions been in place for that Derwent London PLC 9 9 9 9 period.
The gures are for illustrative purposes only and assume that the F&C Commercial comparator group for 2011 12 is the same for the whole of that period.
Spot prices Property Trust Limited 9 9 9 9 at the beginning and end of each period are used for these purposes, as opposed Grainger PLC 9 9 9 to the 30 day averages used to calculate the performance of actual awards.
Great Portland Estates For awards granted in June and July 2009, the Group outperformed its sector PLC 9 9 9 9 weighted IPD index by an average of 0.62% per annum, causing 35.9% of Hammerson PLC 9 9 9 9 the award to vest.
Based on a portfolio value of 9,406 million on 1 April 2009, Hansteen Holdings PLC 9 9 9 the value of this outperformance equates to approximately 180 million of value created for shareholders in excess of our IPD sector benchmarks over the period.
Helical Bar PLC 9 9 9 For the same period, the Groups TSR was 98.81%, outperforming its Liberty International PLC 9 comparator group in terms of TSR by 4.22% and causing the maximum, 50%, of London and Stamford the award to vest.
Based on our market capitalisation of 3.2 billion on 1 April Group PLC 9 9 9 9 2009, the outperformance created approximately 422 million of value over and Segro PLC 9 9 9 9 above that of our comparator group over the period.
The TSR calculation is carried Shaftesbury PLC 9 9 9 9 out by the Committees independent benets adviser, New Bridge Street.
St Modwen Properties In total, 85.9% of the award will vest in June LTIP and July LTIP Matching PLC 9 9 9 Performance Shares 2012.
UK Commercial Property For awards granted in 2010, the Groups performance over the two years to Trust Limited 9 9 9 31 March 2012 would, if sustained over the three year period, result in 74.2% of the UNITE Group PLC 9 9 share awards vesting.
For awards granted in 2011, performance over the one year period to 31 March 2012 would, if sustained over the second and third years of the period, result in 50% of share awards vesting.
PERCENTAGE OF LTIP AND MATCHING PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS ACTUALLY VESTING DURING THE LAST 5 YEARS UNAUDITED TABLE 64 Vesting of LTIP awards Percentage of award vesting Year of grant Performance Period TPR NADEPS TSR Total 2005 April 2005 to March 2008 50% 50% 100.0% 2006 April 2006 to March 2009 42.50% 50% 92.5% 2007 April 2007 to March 2010 50% 0% 50.0% 2008 April 2008 to March 2011 27.50% 0% 27.5% 2009 April 2009 to March 2012 35.90% 50% 85.9% ILLUSTRATIVE PERCENTAGE OF LTIP AND MATCHING PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS VESTING BETWEEN 2008 AND 2011 ASSUMING THE CURRENT TPR TSR PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS HAD BEEN IN PLACE UNAUDITED TABLE 65 Vesting of LTIP awards Percentage of award vesting Year of grant Performance Period TPR TSR Total 2005 April 2005 to March 2008 50% 0% 50.0% 2006 April 2006 to March 2009 42.50% 23% 65.5% 2007 April 2007 to March 2010 50% 0% 50.0% 2008 April 2008 to March 2011 27.50% 0% 27.5% Land Securities Annual Report 2012 89 Directors remuneration report The maximum number of shares which could potentially vest as a result of historic to accrue benets on a 1 60th basis with employee contributions of 5% of basic long-term incentive awards and the number of shares which vest in the financial salary.
Where the amount of the Groups deemed contribution is less than year are shown in Table 72.
25% of Mr Akers base salary, the balance is paid to him in the form of a pension The vesting criteria for LTIP and Matching Share awards to senior managers allowance or in cash.
Table 75 illustrates the accrued value of Mr Akers dened are the same as set out above.
He will cease to be an active member of this scheme in 2012 13 and will receive a pension allowance instead of contributions to the scheme.
iii Deferred Bonus Share Plan Where part of a bonus is deferred into the Companys shares, those shares are held vi Share Options within the Companys employee benefit trust and are automatically transferred to The Company had historically operated share option arrangements for Executive Executive Directors on the second or third anniversary of the grant date, depending Directors, with vesting subject to performance testing.
New awards ceased to be made to Executive Directors following the adoption of the LTIP in 2005. on the nature of the award, provided that they remain employed by the Company on that date, or otherwise meet other criteria set out in the rules of scheme.
The Committee determined that the performance criteria had been met for The proceeds of any dividends accruing on the deferred shares are used to grants made over the period 2002 to 2004 and as a result the executive share purchase shares, with those additional shares transferred to the Executive Director options granted during that period have not lapsed and are exercisable in full for on vesting.
10 years from the grant date.
Directors options over ordinary shares are shown in Table 76. iv Clawback Arrangements Subject to the approval of Shareholders and with effect from the 2012 13 year, vii Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Remuneration Committee will have discretion to recover the value of any All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to participate in the overpaid awards of Annual Bonus and or LTIP Matching Performance Share Awards Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The scheme is designed to where the overpayment was made as a result of the misstatement of the align the interests of employees with the longer term interests of shareholders and Companys results or a performance condition which caused the overpayment.
provide certain tax benets for our employees.
On joining, participants make an The recovery will be made against future bonuses and unvested share awards and, election for the scheme to mature on either the 3rd, 5th or 7th anniversary of them to the extent permitted, from Deferred Bonus Shares.
This clawback will apply joining and may contribute up to 250 per month.
On maturity, participants are to awards made to Executive Directors and to Senior Managers.
eligible to purchase newly allotted shares from the Company at a discount of approximately 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of v Pension Arrangements the participant joining the scheme or receive the cash with any accrued interest.
Shareholders will be asked to renew authority for this scheme at the The Group operates a money purchase pension scheme which was introduced for all staff joining the Group from 1 January 1999.
Prior to the introduction of the coming AGM.
money purchase arrangement, the Group provided pension benets on a dened benefit basis.
Shareholding Guidelines for Directors Following a review of pension provision in light of a series of legislative The Committee believes that it is important for a significant investment to be changes, it was decided that Executive Directors would continue to be entitled made by each Executive Director in the Groups shares so that each Executive to receive a pension allowance, or cash, equivalent to 25% of their base salary.
Directors interest in the growth and performance of the Group is closely aligned Richard Akers participates in the Groups dened benefit pension scheme with the interests of our shareholders.
The Committee has, therefore, established which was open to property management and administration staff until share ownership guidelines for the Groups Executive and Non-executive Directors.
This scheme was designed to provide a pension of 1 60th of These guidelines require the Chief Executive to own shares with a value equal Pensionable Salary for each year of pensionable service at normal retirement age.
to twice his base salary and for other Executive Directors to own shares with a value The benets provided to Mr Akers are based on a Pensionable Salary which is equal to one and a half times their base salary.
An Executive Director must normally subject to a cap, based on the former statutory earnings cap.
With effect from satisfy the guidelines within five years of his date of appointment in order to qualify 1 April 2006, the dened benefit pension scheme has moved to future accrual on for future awards of long-term incentives.
In determining their compliance with a CARE Career Average Revalued Earnings basis, on either a 1 80th accrual or a these requirements, Executive Directors are entitled to include unvested share 1 60th accrual subject to employee contributions.
To date, Mr Akers has elected awards made to them without performance conditions.
90 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report In May 2007, the Committee determined that Francis Salway had met the revised Francis Salway, Chief Executive share ownership guidelines and in May 2010 the Committee agreed that Martin During the year, Francis Salway retired from his position as Chief Executive and left Greenslade and Richard Akers had met the revised guidelines.
In May 2011 the the Group on 31 March 2012.
In January, the Committee met to discuss whether it Committee agreed that Robert Noel had also met the guidelines.
Following his would treat Mr Salway as a good leaver in accordance with the Companys share appointment as the Groups Chief Executive on 1 April 2012, Mr Noel will have scheme rules thereby allowing some or all of his outstanding share awards to vest five years to meet the ownership guidelines for his new position.
early, but still subject to performance conditions.
In addition, Non-executive Directors are required to own shares with a value In recognition of his achievements during nearly eight years as Chief Executive equal to their annual fees within three years of the date of their appointment.
In and eleven years with the Group and his assistance during the process to appoint May 2012, the Committee determined that all Non-executive Directors in place at and hand over to his successor, the Committee considered Mr Salway a good leaver the time had complied with this requirement, with the exception of Stacey Rauch in every sense.
who has until 1 January 2015 to comply.
The Committee permitted the early vesting of LTIP and Matching Performance The Committee monitors the Directors progress against the guidelines as Share Awards granted to Mr Salway in 2009, which would ordinarily have vested at 31 March of every year, using the share price at the close of business that day.
shortly after his leaving, in June and July 2012, had he remained employed by the Group.
Vesting remained subject to performance testing.
The Committee also Dilution effect of the Groups share incentive schemes approved the early vesting of Mr Salways 2010 and 2011 Deferred Bonus Shares, which were purchased using cash from bonuses previously awarded to him for past Awards granted under the 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan, which covers LTIP and performance and did not have any performance conditions attaching to them.
Matching Performance Share awards and Deferred Bonus Share awards and the Mr Salways 2010 and 2011 LTIP and Matching Performance Share Awards and 2005 Executive Share Option Plan, which covers employees below Board and all outstanding Share Option awards have now lapsed.
senior management level, are met through the funding of an Employee benefit The TPR proportion of the vesting criteria was calculated as at 30 September Trust administered by an external trustee which acquires shares in the market.
2011, on the basis of a valuation prepared by our valuers, Knight Frank, the outcome The Employee benefit Trust held 2,355,235 shares at 31 March 2012. of which was published by the Group in its interim results.
That date was chosen The exercise of share options under the Groups Savings-Related Share as it was the most recent date upon which the Groups portfolio had been Option Scheme, which is open to all employees who have completed six months independently valued.
service with the Group, is satisfied by the allotment of newly issued shares.
At The TSR element of the award was calculated as at 29 February, being the 31 March 2012, the total number of shares which could be allotted under this latest practicable date for calculation, by the Committees independent advisers, scheme was 619,309 shares, which represented less than 1% of the issued share New Bridge Street.
The outcome of the performance testing resulted in 194,952 capital of the Company.
LTIP and Matching Performance Shares and 42,554 Deferred Bonus Shares to vest, with values of 1.42m and 310,000 respectively.
Payments to Executive Directors, their In line with the policy of the Group applicable to all employees, the Committee agreed to allow Mr Salway to be considered for an annual bonus as he Service Contracts and Shareholdings had been employed by the Group for the whole of the financial year.
Mr Salways Directors Emoluments for the year ended 31 March 2012 annual bonus was calculated against a number of Group and personal targets.
A maximum bonus of 80% of salary was dependent on the Groups performance Table 72 sets out Directors emoluments for the financial year ended 31 March against revenue profit, total property return, development lettings and planning 2012.
The basis of disclosure is on an accruals basis, that is, the annual bonus and application targets.
The Committee scored his achievement at 55.2% against the Deferred Bonus Shares columns include the amount that will be paid and awarded maximum 80% of salary.
respectively for performance achieved in the financial year under review.
The remaining 20% was calculated on the basis of a number of specic and There follows a detailed breakdown of the individual payments accruing measurable personal targets which included the development of his direct reports, to Directors during the year under review.
with Mr Salway awarded a score of 18.2% of a maximum 20% of salary.
The overall outcome was a bonus of 73.4% of salary, which led to a cash bonus of 481,000 2011: 757,000.
He was not awarded a Discretionary or Additional Bonus.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 91 Directors remuneration report The gures were agreed by a specially convened meeting of the Committee held in Mr Noels annual bonus was calculated on the basis of achievement against targets March 2012 and required some estimation of the likely position at year end.
Had set for the performance of the London Portfolio and a number of personal targets.
the performance conditions been calculated once the final information had A maximum bonus of 80% of salary was dependent on the London Portfolios become available, the overall payments to Mr Salway would have been higher.
performance targets for total property return, revenue profit, progress with the Mr Salway did not receive any pay in lieu of notice or any other payment London Portfolios extensive development programme, development lettings, beyond those set out above.
planning applications and stakeholder measures.
Mr Noel scored 57.8% out of a In addition, Mr Salway received 22,645 shares in respect of LTIP and Matching maximum of 80%.
Performance Share Awards which vested in the usual way during 2011 12, with a Mr Noels personal targets included the development of direct reports, value of 161,000 and 52,005 Deferred Bonus Shares with a value of 337,000. key operational targets including specic milestones within the development Mr Salway was a Non-executive Director of Next PLC for the whole of the year programme and community initiatives, and were scored at 18.5% out of a maximum of 20%.
under review, for which he received fees of 50,000.
The Nominations Committee permitted him to retain these fees.
His role at Next PLC is considered in the In accordance with the terms of the discretionary bonus arrangement, the Corporate Governance Report.
Committee awarded Mr Noel a discretionary bonus of 65,000, equating to 15.3% of salary.
This reected his exceptional performance in achieving a number of milestones within the London Portfolio.
These included the successful creation of Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer the Victoria Circle joint venture and the disposals of Arundel Great Court and Eland The Committee awarded Martin Greenslade a salary increase of 5.75% to House which have reduced risk in the London Portfolio leaving it well placed for 460,000, which will become effective on 1 July 2012.
The rise reects both his success in the coming years.
This achievement was not fully reected in the Annual performance in his role and the increased responsibility brought about by Francis Bonus plan.
Salway leaving the Group and a restructuring within the Groups finance function Mr Noels overall bonus was 91.6% of salary, which equates to 389,000 that will bring about organisational changes.
Over the last 5 years, the average 2011: 427,000.
Of this 308,000 will be paid in cash and the balance, 81,000, annual increase awarded to Mr Greenslade was 2.7% including this increase.
will be deferred into shares for three years.
His salary had fallen behind the median for the comparator group of property and As part of the package to recruit Mr Noel to the Board as Managing Director of utility companies and some way below the median for companies with a similar the London Portfolio from 1 January 2010, Mr Noel was granted an award of shares market capitalisation.
which broadly matched the long-term incentive awards he left behind at his Mr Greenslades annual bonus was calculated on the basis of achievement previous employer.
This award was described in the last years report and was against a number of Group and personal targets.
The targets relating to the Group structured to reect the timing and likelihood of vesting of those share awards.
performance were the same as those set for Francis Salway and the outcome, In relation to quantum it was agreed that these awards would not be subject to 55.2% of salary as against a maximum 80%, was also the same.
performance conditions but the value would be scaled back to reect assumptions Mr Greenslades personal targets included overseeing new funding in relation to the likelihood of vesting.
arrangements for the Group and joint ventures, restructuring the finance and 34,000 shares of Mr Noels award vested in 2010, with a further award company secretarial departments, ensuring a new forecasting system was of 46,000 shares vesting during the year under review at a value of 387,000. implemented across the business and helping deliver a best in class investor The final award of 80,000 shares is due to vest in June 2012.
Had Mr Noel left the relations programme.
He was scored at 15.7% out of a maximum of 20%.
employment of the Company prior to vesting, he would have forfeited the balance In accordance with the terms of the discretionary bonus arrangement, the of the award.
Committee awarded Mr Greenslade a discretionary bonus of 100,000, equating Mr Noel did not have any other share awards vesting in the year.
This reects his exceptional achievement in leading the renancing of the Groups 1.1 billion revolving credit facilities on favourable terms Richard Akers, Managing Director, Retail Portfolio in a very difficult market.
The terms negotiated strengthen the Groups balance sheet and will provide the Group with real competitive advantage for a number of The Committee awarded Richard Akers a salary increase of 2.5% to 410,000 years to come.
This achievement was not fully reected in the Annual Bonus plan.
which will become effective on 1 July 2012.
Over the last 5 years, the average Mr Greenslades overall bonus was 93.9% of salary, which equates to annual increase awarded to Mr Akers has been 2.4% including this increase.
Of this, 331,000 will be paid in cash and the balance, Mr Akers annual bonus was calculated on the basis of achievement against 77,000, will be deferred into shares for three years.
targets set for the performance of the Retail Portfolio and a number of personal LTIP and Matching Performance Share Awards over 14,428 shares vested targets.
A maximum bonus of 80% of salary was dependent on the Retail during the year with a value of 103,000 and 31,076 Deferred Bonus Shares also Portfolios performance against targets for total property return, revenue profit, vested, with a value of 214,000. development lettings, planning applications and land acquisition targets, asset management initiatives and stakeholder measures.
Mr Akers scored 61.8% out of a maximum of 80%.
Robert Noel, Managing Director, London Portfolio Mr Akers personal targets included objectives to build talent within the Retail Robert Noel became the Groups Chief Executive on 1 April 2012, with the business, the growth of the Groups out of town development programme, specic Committee awarding him a salary of 680,000.
The Committee set the salary property sales, progression of the Groups new development programme and a having taken advice from New Bridge Street.
This salary equals the basic salary of variety of other profit generating initiatives.
Mr Akers scored 16.0% out of a the outgoing Chief Executive, plus a cost of living increase of 2.2% as his salary will maximum of 20%.
not be reviewed until 1 July 2013.
This level of salary is considered appropriate given Mr Akers overall bonus was 77.8% of salary, which equates to 311,000 2011: Mr Noels calibre and experience and after taking due account of salary levels for 330,000.
Of this 233,000 will be paid in cash and the balance, 78,000, will be chief executives in companies of a similar size and complexity.
To provide a degree deferred into shares for three years.
of context, the proposed salary is at around 95% of the median benchmark considered for similar sized property and utility companies and at around 80% of the median benchmark considered for similar sized FTSE 100 companies.
92 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report In addition, as the performance of the Retail Portfolio in the 2010 11 financial year subject to a minimum bonus amount of 10% of basic salary pro-rated to reect the exceeded the relevant IPD sector benchmark by 2.9%, Mr Akers became entitled to number of months of the bonus year prior to the service of notice of termination.
an Additional Bonus of 342,000, 90% of his then salary half payable in cash and Their service agreements also include provisions entitling them to be half in deferred shares, subject to the performance criteria for the subsequent contractually treated as good leavers for the purposes of the Companys share years performance also being met.
That performance criteria has now been met schemes in the event of them being dismissed.
In those circumstances, they would so that payment of the Additional Bonus, in respect of 2010 11, will become due in be entitled to receive the time pro-rated vesting of all outstanding share awards, June 2012. subject to performance testing.
Mr Akers and Mr Greenslade have been in talks In the year under review the Retail Portfolio again outperformed the relevant with the Company to amend the provisions dealing with compensation on IPD benchmark, this time by 2.5%.
If the performance criteria for the coming year termination to bring them into line with institutional guidelines: however these is met, Mr Akers will be entitled to receive an additional bonus of 200,000, being discussions were put on hold pending the outcome of the recent Government 50% of his current salary.
Half of this will be paid in cash in June 2013 and the other consultation on executive remuneration.
half deferred into shares for a further two years.
Any proposals for the early termination of the service agreements of Executive LTIP and Matching Performance Share Awards over 10,409 shares vested Directors or senior executives are considered by the Committee.
during the year, with a value of 74,000 and 33,036 Deferred Bonus Shares with The service agreements of the Executive Directors provide for phased a value of 268,000.
Mr Akers also exercised an historic share option award with payments of amounts payable on termination, in order to mitigate amounts a value of 6,000. potentially payable by the Company.
The Company does not make any Mr Akers became a Non-executive Director of Barratt Developments PLC arrangements that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance on 2 April 2012.
The Nominations Committee has permitted him to retain his or early retirement.
directors fees which are expected to be in the region of 40,000 per annum.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
DATES OF APPOINTMENT FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TABLE 66 Directors Shareholdings Name Date of appointment Date of contract The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2012 F W Salway 2 April 01 31 May 01 are shown in Table 74.
M F Greenslade 1 September 05 1 September 05 There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between R J Akers 17 May 05 17 May 05 the end of the financial year and 17 May 2012, save that Alison Carnwath, Martin R M Noel 1 January 10 23 January 12 Greenslade and Stacey Rauch acquired 1,302, 968 and 59 shares respectively under Date of appointment to the Board of Land Securities Group PLC or its predecessor company, Land Securities PLC.
the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme or the reinvestment of their cash dividends.
No Director had any other interests in contracts or securities of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
Key features of Directors Service Agreements The Committees policy on service agreements for Executive Directors is that they Performance Graphs should provide for 12 months rolling notice of termination by either party.
As a As required by legislation covering the Directors remuneration report, Table 67 result, the unexpired term and the notice periods both from the Company and below illustrates the performance of the Company measured by total shareholder from each Executive Director are 12 months.
The dates of appointment and the return share price growth plus dividends paid against a broad equity market dates of the service agreements of the Executive Directors are set out above.
index over a period of five years.
As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE The service agreements for Martin Greenslade and Richard Akers, which have All Share Real Estate sector this index is considered to be the most appropriate been in place since 2005, contain a provision whereby if either of them is given benchmark for the purposes of the graph.
An additional line to illustrate the notice to terminate his employment by the Company, he will be considered for Companys performance compared with the FTSE 100 index over the previous a bonus in the usual way and at the usual time following the relevant bonus year five years, is also included.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE A HYPOTHETICAL 100 HOLDING OVER FIVE YEARS UNAUDITED CHART 67 120 114 110 95 100 102 77 80 66 69 60 49 49 43 40 48 47 42 26 20 24 0 March 07 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 Land Securities Group PLC FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 100 Index Note: Comparisons to indices based on 1 month average values Source: Datastream Land Securities Annual Report 2012 93 Directors remuneration report The appointment of a Non-executive Director can be terminated, by either party, 4.
Fees Paid to Non-executive Directors upon one months notice and the appointment of the Chairman on three months NED PAY IN 2011 12 000 UNAUDITED TABLE 68 notice.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Directors Amount are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
received Fees 11 12 Fees 12 13 A J Carnwath 300 300 300 Pay of Senior Managers D Rough 83 83 60 S Rose 60 60 60 and Other Employees K OByrne 77 78 88 Senior Managers C Bartram 60 60 60 S Palley 60 60 73 The Group currently employs 14 senior managers in positions below Board level.
S Rauch 15 60 60 None of these senior managers receives a salary or total remuneration package B Lerenius 18 which is higher than those paid to the Executive Directors.
The structure of their C Bland 18 remuneration packages, including bonuses, is broadly consistent with that of Executive Directors.
Total 691 701 701 The senior managers generally have a bonus potential of up to 80% of annual Appointed 1 January 2012.
Retired 21 July 2011. salary determined by a range of performance indicators.
In addition, they are eligible to participate in the discretionary bonus pool described below.
Six of the senior managers, who are responsible for the areas which impact the The annual fees of the Chairman of the Board and Non-executive Directors are most signicantly on the results of the Group, are also eligible to participate in the determined by the Board, having regard to independent advice.
The Board also additional bonus opportunity for the delivery of exceptional financial returns, as takes into account the time commitments of the Non-executive Directors, which described above in this report, but at up to a maximum of 80% of annual salary.
are reviewed annually as part of the Board appraisal process.
During the year, This bonus opportunity will be replaced with an increased annual bonus potential no increases to the Chairmans fee of 300,000 or to the base Non-executive and an additional LTIP award should Shareholders approve the changes to Directors fee of 60,000 were proposed.
These have remained unchanged remuneration set out in the circular accompanying this annual report.
since November 2008 and October 2009, respectively.
During the year under review, bonuses for this group of employees ranged No additional fees are payable for attendance at Board or Committee from 49% to 84% of salary, with an average bonus of 61% 2011: 76% meetings or for membership of Board Committees, but additional fees outlined of salary.
below are payable in respect of specic responsibilities: Two of these employees received additional bonuses in the year that related to the performance of their business units in the prior year.
Including these ADDITIONAL NED FEES UNAUDITED TABLE 69 payments would increase the upper end of the range from 84% to 142% and the average to 69%.
Chair of Audit Committee 17,500 Chair of Remuneration Committee 12,500 All Other Employees Senior Independent Director 10,000 All employees are entitled to participate in the Companys bonus scheme which awards between 20% and 80% of salary, depending on seniority, and to be considered for an award from the discretionary bonus pool of 1m, with awards Neither the Chairman nor the other Non-executive Directors receive any pension normally made to no more than 10% of the Groups employees.
The awards are benets from the Company, nor do they participate in any bonus or incentive usually not more than 30% of basic salary and are made on the basis of an schemes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed under letters of appointment exceptional single achievement or outstanding all round performance.
which provide for an initial term of service of three years.
The dates of the current In addition, all employees are entitled to receive private health insurance, letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are shown below.
permanent health insurance and a season ticket loan all on exactly the same basis as the Executive Directors.
DATES OF NED APPOINTMENT The ratio of the salary of our Chief Executive to the average salary across the TO THE BOARD UNAUDITED TABLE 70 Group excluding Directors is 12:1 665,000: 53,400.
Name Date of appointment Date of contract D Rough 2 April 02 29 April 04 S Rose 21 May 03 29 April 04 A J Carnwath 1 September 04 13 November 08 K OByrne 1 April 08 9 April 08 C Bartram 1 August 09 21 July 09 S Palley 1 August 10 29 July 10 S Rauch 1 January 12 26 November 11 Date of appointment to the Board of Land Securities Group PLC or its predecessor company, Land Securities PLC.
94 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors remuneration report A summary of the Committees proposals, which will apply to all Executive 5.
Changes Proposed to the Directors, appears below: Remuneration Structure for 2012 13 OUR NEW EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Background and Objectives for the Review PROPOSALS UNAUDITED TABLE 71 Following the appointment of Robert Noel as the Groups Chief Executive with Incentive Current policy Proposed policy effect from 1 April 2012, the number of Executive Directors reduced from four to Annual Bonus 100% of basic salary 150% of basic salary three.
Board responsibilities have been re-shaped so that the roles of Executive and Deferral with 25% deferred into with the whole of any 1 Directors align more closely with one another and focus on the Group as a whole, shares for 36 months amounts above 50% as opposed to individual business units.
and 100% automatically In conjunction with our independent advisers, New Bridge Street, the deferred into shares Committee undertook a full review of its executive remuneration policy to take for one and two years, into account these management changes, to address a number of other issues respectively that had arisen with our existing arrangements and to address developments Discretionary Bonus Up to 50% of basic salary Withdrawn in institutional investors best practice expectations.
1 payable in cash The objectives of the review were to: Align Executive Directors remuneration to the performance of the Group Additional Bonus Up to 200% of Withdrawn as a whole basic salary, for Address feedback from shareholders who disliked the Companys use of outperformance of the Discretionary and Additional bonuses relevant London Retail Reduce the weight of outperformance of IPD and increase the weight of total Group Benchmark of 1 shareholder return within the package which will improve executive alignment between 2-4% with shareholders LTIP Awards 100% of salary 150% of salary Maintain outperformance of the industry benchmarks and our peers as the key performance conditions, whilst ensuring that executives were not incentivised Matching Performance Up to 100% of basic Up to 150% of basic to take undue risks Share Award salary, subject to salary, subject to Make the remuneration package more long term purchasing or pledging purchasing or pledging Implement changes to the Committees policy in one go, rather than make the sufficient shares which sufficient shares which changes over a number of years may include Deferred may no longer include Refresh shareholder authorities for the existing SAYE and LTIP and Matching Bonus Shares Deferred Bonus Shares Performance Share schemes which would otherwise expire in the coming years.
Maximum Overall 500% of basic salary 450% of basic salary Quantum of Incentives 1.
Under the current policy, the amounts payable in respect of Annual, Discretionary and Additional bonuses are capped at 300% of basic salary.
Assessment of Performance Conditions The Annual Bonus targets will be set and tested in the same way as described in the Policy section of this report.
The Committee considered, in great detail, whether the performance conditions attaching to the shares awards should be changed, particularly in the light of the proposal to increase awards.
Some of the data used by the Committee in its assessment of the stretch within the existing targets is shown at tables 64 and 65.
The degree of stretch in each metric was reviewed during the formulation of our proposals and, in summary, the current targets were considered to remain appropriately stretching.
In terms of the IPD condition, given Land Securities size relative to the sector weighted IPD benchmark, the Committee remains satisfied that the current condition remains appropriately challenging.
Over the three-year measurement period, maximum vesting requires the creation of more than 300m of value over and above general movements in the value of commercial property within our sectors, based on the valuation of our portfolio at 31 March 2012.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 95 Directors remuneration report Similarly, requiring a 4% pa outperformance premium above the selected Consultation companies in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index for full vesting is a more demanding We shared our proposals with our largest 25 shareholders, who together hold test than a traditional TSR median to upper quartile test for most companies.
Land approximately half of the Companys shares, and the two largest shareholder Securities would only have achieved full vesting of the TSR proportion of an award representative bodies.
We discussed the proposals at length and met with once within the last five years, had it been in operation for that period, and would shareholders and investor bodies as required.
There was broad support for the have achieved 0% vesting for three of those five years.
changes, with shareholders recognising that the proposed changes met the A key consideration when determining the targets for 2012 13 was to ensure Committees objectives.
that target and maximum total remuneration levels were around median market The majority of shareholders recognised that the effect of the removal of the practice when compared against appropriate benchmarks.
The Remuneration discretionary and additional bonus elements and the reduction in overall quantum Committee is comfortable that retaining the above targets achieves this objective leads to a better structure overall.
Although some shareholders questioned the at the same time as requiring a greater investment in Land Securities shares if the quantum of increase in LTIP shares with no increase in performance condition, full value of a Matching Performance Share Award is to be received.
the Committee feels that the targets are sufciently challenging.
Accordingly, noting the reduction in annual bonus opportunity, retaining the Some shareholders queried the Companys existing practice of permitting above targets for long term incentive purposes is considered to remain appropriate.
annual bonus deferrals to attract Matching Performance Share Awards.
The Although the Committee decided not to alter the performance conditions for Committee agreed to withdraw this aspect from the initial proposals.
the awards, it has decided to widen the total property return benchmark to include Following feedback on the grant of Matching Performance Share Awards, the Inner London along with Central London as this better reects the spread of our Committee also agreed to implement changes which will encourage Executive investment property portfolio in London.
Over the last five years, our data shows Directors to build and maintain very significant shareholdings.
These grants will that our returns would have been slightly weaker using the new benchmark.
Our no longer be made to match cash bonuses deferred into shares but will require Retail portfolio benchmarks will remain the same.
additional shares to be acquired or pledged instead.
Currently, Executive Directors are required to hold between one and a half and two times their salary in shares within five years of their appointment.
Going forward, once the five year period has elapsed, the Committee will require Executive Directors to pledge shares over and above the shareholding requirement in order to receive a Matching Performance Share Award.
By way of example, in order to receive a full Matching Performance Share Award once our Chief Executive has been in post for seven years, he will be required to hold shares with a value of at least 6.25 times his net salary.
Finally, in reaction to feedback from one of the shareholder bodies the Committee has agreed to increase deferral so that any bonus payment in excess of 50% of salary is deferred into shares.
Shareholder Approval The proposals described above are subject to Shareholders approving amendments to the rules of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan at the Companys AGM on 19 July 2012.
A detailed description of the changes to this plan is included within the Notice of AGM that accompanies this report.
Benets consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance premiums and holiday pay.
R J Akers was entitled to an additional bonus of 90% of salary for the 2010 11 financial year as the performance of the Retail Portfolio exceeded the relevant IPD benchmark by 2.9% for 2010 11 and by 2.5% for 2011 12.
In accordance with his entitlement, half of the payment is payable in cash in June 2012, with the balance deferred into the Companys shares for a period of two years.
He will also be entitled to an additional bonus for 2012 13 if the Retail Portfolio exceeds the IPD benchmark in 2012 13.
Under this award, if the performance criteria is met he would receive 100,000 payable half in cash and the balance being deferred into shares for a further two years.
B Lerenius and C Bland retired from the Board on 21 July 2011.
Stacey Rauch was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2012.
R M Noel was awarded 160,000 Conditional shares on his appointment to the Board.
34,000 shares vested at nil consideration in June 2010 and 46,000 vested at nil consideration in June 2011.
Francis Salway retired from the Board on 31 March 2012.
On retirement his awards over LTIP and Matching Shares made in 2009 which were due to vest on 29 June 2012 and 31 July 2012 respectively were allowed to vest on 31 March 2012.
He also received a cash bonus in respect of the 2011 12 year.
His Deferred Bonus Shares from 2010 and 2011 were released.
All other LTIP and Matching Share awards from 2010 and 2011 lapsed.
A benefit of 4,844 accrued to S Rauch in relation to travel costs.
Pensions of 68,072 2010 11 66,224 resulting from unfunded historic benefit obligations were paid to former Directors or their dependants.
As adjusted for the Rights Issue in March 2009.
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME AUDITED TABLE 75 Transfer value Increase in Increase in of increase accrued accrued in accrued Transfer value Transfer value Increase in Accrued benets benets benets of accrued of accrued transfer value benefit at excluding including excluding benets at benets at net of 31 March 2012 ination ination ination 1 April 2011 31 March 2012 Directors contributions R J Akers 36,749 2,135 3,853 44,489 540,417 765,626 218,729 Ination, as measured by the change in the Consumer Price Index CPI between September 2010 and September 2011 was 5.2% over this period.
The Increase in transfer value net of Directors contributions differs from the Transfer value of increase in accrued benefit in that it reects the change in market conditions over the year less the Directors own contributions to the pension scheme.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of the actuarial advice in accordance with the 2008 transfer value regulations.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement in respect of qualifying service represents the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the liability in respect of the Directors pension benets that they earned in respect of qualifying service.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Vesting of Awards is dependent on the Companys growth in normalised adjusted EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by 2.5% per year.
Vesting of Awards is dependent on the Companys growth in normalised adjusted EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by at least 2.5% per year.
2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Not subject to performance conditions as it is available to all staff and HM Revenue & Customs rules do not permit performance conditions for this type of scheme.
Total number of options held by Directors at 31 March 2012 was 26,588 2011: 86,033.
The range of the closing middle market prices for Land Securities Group PLC ordinary shares during the year was 612 pence to 885 pence.
The closing share price on 30 March 2012 was 722.5 pence.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 99 Directors report Report of the Directors additional disclosures Share capital Provisions on change of control There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a At the Companys last Annual General Meeting AGM, held on 21 July 2011, change of control of the Company.
None of these are considered significant.
The shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect in the event of a shares representing up to 10% of its issued share capital at that time and to allot change of control, but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of shares within certain limits permitted by shareholders and the Companies Act.
the Company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant scheme.
These authorities expire at the 2012 AGM.
No shares were repurchased in the year to 31 March 2012.
However, following repurchases in earlier periods, the Company Payment policy currently holds 5,896,000 ordinary shares in treasury.
New shares were allotted The Groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with their terms.
The Company during the year only in relation to certain employee share awards and the has no trade creditors as at 31 March 2012.
The Groups creditor payment days at Companys scrip dividend facility.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be 31 March 2012 represented 27 days purchases 2011: 25 days.
Financial reporting and the going concern Substantial shareholders basis for accounting At 15 May 2012 the interests in issued share capital which had been notied to the The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the Financial Groups position and prospects.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company Services Authority are shown below.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed assumptions about future trading performance, SHAREHOLDERS OWNING OVER 3% valuation projections and debt requirements contained within the Groups current OF THE COMPANYS SHARES TABLE 77 five year plan and reported against them, internally, on a monthly basis.
This, Number of shares % together with available market information and the Directors knowledge and BlackRock Inc 50,151,233 6.37 experience of the Groups property portfolio and markets, has given them Norges Bank 40,749,193 5.18 sufficient confidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the APG Algemene Pensioen Groep 32,442,934 4.12 accounts.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Peel Holdings Plc 30,181,060 3.84 the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Legal & General Investment Management 29,827,505 3.79 foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors indemnities and insurance Voting rights On 5 May 2006, the Company agreed to indemnify each Director against any Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further information on the liability incurred in relation to acts or omissions arising in the course of their ofce.
voting and other rights of shareholders are set out in the Companys Articles of The indemnity applies only to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of the deed of Association and in the explanatory notes that accompany the Notice of the AGM indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at the which are available on the Companys website at www.
The Company has ensured that appropriate insurance cover is available in respect of potential legal action against its Directors.
Annual General Meeting AGM Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors for consideration at the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that has not been brought to the attention of the Companys auditors.
Each Director has taken By order of the Board all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that such information was provided to the auditors.
Adrian fide Souza A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company Group General Counsel and Company Secretary will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
100 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCE Essential read In this section ifc More information print and online 18 Who we are in brief Financial statements 20 Our performance at a glance 21 Key performance indicators 22 Our performance by business 23 Our valuation analysis 24 Our top 20 properties at a glance 26 Our year of progress 28 2012 and beyond Directors report 30 Chairmans message 32 Chief Executives statement 34 Financial review 38 Group business review 41 Our principal risks and how we manage them 44 Retail Portfolio 52 London Portfolio 60 Board of Directors 62 Corporate Responsibility 70 Corporate governance 82 Directors remuneration report Financial statements Income statement 102 Statement of Directors responsibilities 103 Independent auditors report From Group revenue and costs to earnings per share.
104 Income statement 104 Statement of comprehensive income Balance sheet 105 Balance sheets 106 Statement of changes in equity The Groups balance sheet at 31 March 2012.
108 Statement of cash ows 109 Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements Includes accounting policies and segmental information.
Investor resource 152 Business analysis 162 Five year summary 169 Investor information 171 Glossary ibc Contact details Land Securities Annual Report 2012 101
