London & Stamford Property Plc 24 Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee the Committee has prepared Basic salary and benets this report in accordance with the requirements of the UK Basic salaries for Executive Directors and senior executives Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and the areinaccordance with those disclosed in the Prospectus dated listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution will be 21September 2010 and are reviewed annually by the Committee proposed for its approval at the Annual General Meeting of the at the same time and on the same basis as the review by the Company on 11 July 2012.
Executive Directors of all other staff salaries.
Salary increments The Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors of the are approximately linked to ination.
Their assessment has Company except for Humphrey Price and is chaired by regardto individual and corporate performance, individual JamesDean.
rolesand responsibilities and comparable salary levels in other similar companies.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board and Benets for all Executive Directors and employees include and whichare available to shareholders on request and on the are restricted to medical insurance and life assurance cover.
All staff except for the Chairman receive a 15% monthly TheCommittee recommends to the Board the remuneration contribution to their individual personal pension plans.
policy and packages of the Executive Directors and other MrMcGann has a salary sacrifice arrangement with the seniorexecutives and determines awards and targets under Company whereby additional pension contributions are paid management incentive schemes.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review its own Annual discretionary bonus performance, constitution and terms of reference and to ensure itis operating at maximum effectiveness, as well as to review and The Committee considers on an annual basis the award approve remuneration awards.
The Chairman of the Committee ofExecutive Directors bonuses.
These are non-pensionable reports to the Board on proceedings following each meeting.
awards which are discretionary and dependent upon the During the year the Committee has met twice.
performance of the Group, as well as the individual contribution made by each Director.
Performance is measured according to Remuneration policy income growth, property returns, net asset value and shareholder The Committees overriding objective in determining the return as well as qualitative measurement of successful property Companys remuneration policy is to ensure it continues to transactions, initiatives and nancing.
Bonuses are restricted attract, motivate and retain individuals of the highest calibre who toamaximum of 100% of current gross salary.
individually and collectively contribute to the long term success The Committee has approved cash bonuses of 100% of gross ofthe Group and which is competitive in relation to other salary for each of the three Executive Directors for the year, which comparable property companies.
It seeks to provide incentives have been accrued in these accounts.
Consideration has been to encourage and reward individual performance and success given to the considerable business achievements in a challenging aswell as aligning interests with shareholders by implementing business environment in determining such awards and to the rewards and incentives that are dependent on the overall relativity of remuneration of the Executive Directors within the performance and growth of the Group.
The Committee considers Real Estate sector.
annual performance bonuses and long term share-based incentive plans to be the most effective means of achieving Long term incentives theseaims.
The Company wishes to align the long term interests of No Executive Director is involved in the determination of his executives with those of shareholders and to reward and ownremuneration and fees for Non-Executive Directors are encourage continued and sustained growth.
determined and reviewed by the Board as a whole.
In setting The Executive Directors are not subject to any long term incentive theExecutive Directors remuneration the Committee takes into arrangements and are not eligible to participate in the Staff account pay and employment conditions applicable across the Incentive Plan.
Group and most particularly remuneration arrangements in other comparable property companies.
The Executive Directors have significant interests in the shares of the Company, the performance of which creates direct alignment The remuneration packages for Executive Directors and other for the Executive Directors with other shareholders.
senior executives of the Group consist of the following elements: The Executive Directors and senior executives who were former members of the Property Advisor, LSI Management LLP LSI, received shares in the Company on its acquisition of LSI on 1October 2010.
The Executive Directors received 26,565,698 shares that are subject to lock-in arrangements that prevent them being sold before 30 September 2013.
In addition, 8,326,395 ofthese shares are subject to clawback arrangements if performance targets are not met in the three year period to 30September 2013.
The performance targets are to achieve an average increase in the net asset value after adjusting for dividends paid and the issue of new shares of at least 11.5% per annum.
London & Stamford Property Plc 25 Report and Accounts 2012 The performance target for the first year to 30 September 2011 Non-Executive Directors remuneration was not met and so all of the 8,326,395 shares remain subject to The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are determined the clawback arrangements.
and reviewed by the Board annually and reect the time If the cumulative target for the second year is met then two thirds commitment and responsibility taken by them.
Each Nonof the clawback shares will be released.
The clawback is only Executive Director is paid a basic fee of 50,000 per annum and, enforced at the end of the third year.
If the cumulative target at the in addition, James Dean and Humphrey Price receive a fee of end of the third year is not met, then all of the clawback shares 10,000 per annum to act as chairmen of the Remuneration will be subject to clawback except those that have been Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
receives an additional fee of 25,000 per annum for his role asDirector of various subsidiary companies.
Non-Executive Staff incentive plan Directors fees remain unchanged from last year.
The Staff Incentive Plan was established in January 2011 to Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance related alignthe interests of management who were not party to the bonuses, participation in the Staff Incentive Plan, pensions or arrangements noted above, thereby attracting and retaining high other benets from the Company.
calibre individuals throughout the organisation.
Service arrangements Subject to the exclusions noted, all current and future employees of the Group are eligible to participate in the Plan at the The Executive Directors entered into Service Agreements with the Company on 1 October 2010 with notice periods terminable Companys discretion.
by either party of twelve months.
Apart from salary and benets The Plan provides for the grant of a conditional award to receive in the notice period, there are no other contractual terms which ordinary shares in the Company at no cost.
The awards vest on would give rise to compensation payable for early termination.
or after the third anniversary of the date granted and are subject to the same lock-in and performance conditions and targets as The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment effective the consideration shares issued to the former partners of the from 1 October 2010 for an initial term of three years, which Property Advisor.
aresubject to a notice period of three months by either party.
The intention is that share awards will be made annually and will be a function of basic salary.
On 1 October 2011 conditional awards were granted to employees to receive 451,639 shares in the Company.
Theshares were acquired by the Companys Employee benefit Trust in the year.
The Companys Employee benefit Trust now holds 874,075 shares in the Company.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview London & Stamford Property Plc 26 Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration report Interests of Directors in Companys shares Shareholder remuneration The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the The graph above shows the Companys total shareholder return shares of the Company are as follows: from 7 November 2007 to 31 March 2012 compared to a composite measure of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Trusts Index and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment and of10peach of10peach Services Index and also to the FTSE 250 and FTSE 100 Indexes.
31 March 2012 31 March 2011 These indices have been chosen by the Committee as they are Raymond Mould 16,000,000 18,400,000 considered the most appropriate benchmarks against which to Patrick Vaughan 18,146,010 18,383,510 assess the relative performance of the Company.
Martin McGann 3,823,795 3,823,795 Total shareholder return measures price growth, with dividends deemed to be reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
Mark Burton The period from 7 November 2007 to 30 September 2010 relates Charles Cayzer to the performance of the Group headed by London & Stamford Richard Crowder 100,000 100,000 Property Limited.
The period from 1 October 2010 relates to the James Dean performance of the Group headed by London & Stamford Property Plc.
Humphrey Price 2,143,127 2,143,127 James Dean There were no movements in Directors shareholdings between Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 March 2012 and the date of this report.
No Director had any 30 May 2012 interest in or contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking during the year.
Performance graph Total Return London & Stamford Rebased FTSE All-Share Real Estate Composite Rebased FTSE 100 Rebased FTSE 250 Rebased 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Nov 07 Feb 08 May 08 Aug 08 Nov 08 Feb 09 May 09 Aug 09 Nov 09 Feb 10 May 10 Aug 10 Nov 10 Feb 11 May 11 Aug 11 Nov 11 Feb 12 Financial statements Independent auditors report on the Group accounts 28 Group financial statements 29 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 33 Independent auditors report on the Company accounts 49 Company financial statements 50 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements 51 Notice of Annual General Meeting 53 Financial calendar 56 Shareholder information 56 DC1 Eastman Way Hemel Hempstead Financial statements
