Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Dear Shareholder Directors I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2012. remuneration report In my first year as the chairman of the remuneration committee, I have taken the opportunity to complete a thorough review of the companys executive remuneration arrangements, with a focus on competitive pay and the link to performance.
Whilst I am satisfied that the arrangements we have in place are appropriate and that rewards received under the companys incentive plans reflect performance delivered, the committee will review the remuneration arrangements in more detail during the new financial year to ensure they continue to incentivise our performance goals through simple, transparent links to our strategic objectives.
I have also engaged directly with a wide range of shareholders and their representative bodies in order to understand their perspectives on the companys reward schemes and to foster robust two-way dialogue.
The remuneration committee has considered how we can respond to these different perspectives and, at the same time, maintain a competitive and relevant approach to the remuneration of our executive directors and senior management team.
We have, as a result, sought opportunities to improve transparency in our disclosures both on the processes and governance supporting the execution of executive remuneration at Diageo, and on the targets and outcomes for the measures associated with the companys incentive plans.
Other key actions and decisions that we have taken during the financial year include: r OUSPEVDJOH B DMBXCBDL DPOEJUJPO UP GVUVSF MPOH UFSN JODFOUJWF BXBSET UIBU FOBCMFT UIF committee to reduce unvested awards in circumstances that result in performance being materially adversely impacted.
As a result of discussions during the recent consultation with our shareholders, a clawback provision is also being introduced into the bonus arrangements for the executive directors.
These are the only changes to remuneration policy being put into effect at this time.
r ODSFBTJOH UBSHFUT GPS UIF NFBTVSFT VTFE JO UIF MPOH UFSN JODFOUJWF QMBOT UP FOTVSF UIBU UIFZ remain appropriately stretching in the context of both the companys current medium term outlook and the difficulties and uncertainties in the wider macro-economic environment.
In response to shareholder requests for greater visibility, we will disclose targets for the companys Performance Share Plan at the start of the performance period in the directors remuneration report going forward.
As described in the Business review, the company has delivered strong year on year organic top line growth, profit growth and margin expansion in the year ended 30 June 2012, and has also delivered a high level of free cash flow.
This performance reflects an improved growth trajectory and delivery against the commitment to deliver growth efficiently, and, consequently, positions the business well for the future.
The combination of strong company and individual performance has resulted in an above target outcome for the short term incentive plan with the chief executive CEO and chief financial officer CFO receiving a bonus in September equivalent to 148% and 146% of base pay, respectively.
In view of the companys strong results, I am satisfied that this is appropriate.
The company has similarly delivered strong three year total shareholder return performance relative to its peer group for the performance period that ended on 30 June 2012, resulting in Diageo placing fifth out of 16 companies.
Consequently, 65% of the performance shares awarded in September 2009 will vest in September 2012.
For share options awarded in September 2009, three year compound annual growth in adjusted earnings per share has exceeded the maximum target at 10.2% equivalent to total growth over three years of 33.9% and, consequently, the options will vest in full in September 2012.
Over the same period, Diageos share price grew by 88%, from 871 pence to 1641 pence and the company paid a total dividend of 117 pence per share.
I am comfortable, therefore, that these incentive plan outcomes fairly reflect the strong performance delivered for our shareholders.
Finally, we have made some changes to the structure and layout of the directors remuneration report this year to improve transparency and to provide additional information about how our remuneration arrangements are aligned with our strategy.
In addition, in line with emerging guidance from the United Kingdom government and the Financial Reporting Council, we have introduced a new table at the start of the report that summarises the annual earnings of the executive directors culminating in a single remuneration figure.
We hope that this evolution of our disclosure practice helps to create a fuller understanding of our reward practices and forms a transparent basis for engagement with our key stakeholders going forward.
We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM in October 2012.
Lord Davies of Abersoch Senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee Directors remuneration report 87
