51 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report For the year ended 31 October 2012 Chairmans letter On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report on remuneration for 2012.
During 2012, Domino has continued to operate in a challenging market.
Against the backdrop of this tough economic environment the Group has delivered sales of 312.1 million, underlying profits of 53.7 million and net cash inflow from operating activities before tax of 56.4 million.
The results which have been achieved are testimony to the calibre of leadership and the commitment of our employees in tough conditions.
During these difficult times, it remains a core objective of our remuneration policy that we can attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals to execute our business strategy within the prevailing economic conditions.
We believe that our remuneration policy and the focus we place on linking remuneration to individual and business performance, through salary increases and our incentive based structures, continue to be appropriate and are in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee is also aware of the external focus on executive remuneration and the proposed changes to the governance of remuneration announced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and to be introduced into legislation in the coming months.
Whilst the Committee will continue to monitor our remuneration practices to ensure that our objectives remain sound and aligned to the business and market conditions, it does not envisage making any Sir David Brown changes to the remuneration policy in the coming year.
Chairman of Remuneration Salary increases awarded to Executive Directors during the year Committee were between 2.8 per cent and 3.0 per cent which recognised the individuals performance and were also consistent with those awarded to the Groups UK employees.
A key part of our remuneration policy is that our annual bonus plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan are underpinned by challenging performance conditions.
In respect of the annual bonus plan, this year the Group Profit target was not achieved and this has resulted in no bonus payments being made to the Executive Directors for 2012 despite significant progress being made against personal objectives.
Vesting levels under the Long-Term Incentive Plan schemes maturing in the financial year were 77.2 per cent and 100 per cent, reflecting the Groups performance over the periods 20062009 and 20092012 respectively.
The following sections of the report explain our remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior management and the payments made to Executive Directors in relation to the year under review in more detail.
52 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report continued In developing and executing our remuneration policy, the Committee UNAUDITED INFORMATION has regard to the views of our shareholders.
One issue which some Remuneration Committee shareholders have raised in the past is concern about the provision This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the included in the service contracts of our Executive Directors regarding Executive Directors, Group HR Director and Company a specified payment on termination of employment following a change Secretary, including: of control.
During the year, and taking this feedback into account, the Committee has reviewed this provision and has considered various Setting salaries alternatives to it.
As a consequence of this review and discussions Agreeing conditions and coverage of annual incentive schemes between the Committee and the Executive Directors, this particular and long-term incentives provision will be removed from the service contracts with effect from Policy and scope for pension arrangements 1 December 2012 with no compensation being paid to the Executive Determining targets for performance related schemes Directors.
This means that no special arrangements will apply where Scope and content of service contracts employment is terminated following a change of control and the Deciding extent of compensation if any on termination of Executive Directors cooperation in this matter is appreciated by service contracts the Committee.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending and monitoring As a Committee, we are mindful that the level of support we received the level and structure of senior management remuneration and from shareholders on the remuneration report at our last AGM was setting the Chairmans fees.
From a broader employee perspective, lower than we hoped for and so we have also taken steps to improve theCommittee determines the issue and terms of all share-based the quality of disclosure made in this report.
plans available to all employees and is aware of and advises on anymajor changes in employee benefit structures throughout Whilst 2013 is likely to be another challenging year for Domino, we theGroup.
believe that our remuneration policy will enable us to incentivise and retain our management team to create further shareholder value in a The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the sustainable way over the long-term.
com I look forward to receiving your support for the resolution seeking The Committees members are currently Sir David Brown approval of this Remuneration Report at our forthcoming AGM.
Committee Chairman, Sir Mark Wrightson and Mr Chris Brinsmead.
All Committee members attended each meeting.
The Chairman, the Managing Director, the Group HR Director andMrPhillip Ruffles are invited to attend the Committee meetings Sir David Brown but do not participate in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
Remuneration Committee Chairman These attendees were present when the Committee considered matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31October 2012.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Thetable below summarises the main issues discussed during the year.
53 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Meeting Standing agenda items Extraordinary agenda items November 2011 Assess achievement of objectives and determine Consider ABI principles of remuneration annual bonus for Executive Directors conditional on auditors confirmation of PBTA figure Discuss objectives and bonus targets for 2012 Approve LTIP award allocation schedule Review executive share options Review and approve Remuneration Report for 2011 Review expenses policy for Chairman and Directors December 2011 Approve bonus payment for Executive Directors now PBTA figure confirmed by auditor Approve objectives and bonus targets for 2012 Approve revised schedule for grant of executive share options Review performance conditions for 2008 LTIP awards and approve vesting levels Approve release of shares under 1997 LTIP June 2012 Executive Directors salary review Review paper setting out proposals to address Salary review for HR Director and Company feedback on 2011 Remuneration Report Secretary Review fees proposed by short list of consultants to Review level and structure of remuneration for assist with preparation of 2012 Remuneration Report senior executives Review Remuneration Committee terms of reference September 2012 Review report by PwC regarding suggested changes to the 2012 Remuneration Report Discussions regarding change of control payment provisions in service contracts Extension of US assignment of Executive Director October 2012 Discussions regarding change of control payment provisions in service contracts Review first draft 2012 Remuneration Report Consider renewal of SAYE plan and Executive Share Option Schemes Assistance to the Committee In order to execute this strategy, the Company needs high-quality Vicki Sanderson, the Group HR Director, has provided advice to the Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, Committee on salaries and benefits for the Executive Directors and retain and motivate such individuals.
Salary and benefit packages senior management.
In doing this she has relied upon remuneration for Executive Directors are linked to both individual and business data provided by a number of third party providers.
PwC has provided performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed advice to the Committee regarding the preparation of this report.
in the interests of shareholders.
Whilst salaries are generally set by reference to the median of the market, the annual bonus and Remuneration policy long-term incentive plan are used to ensure that, when performance The Companys business strategy is to provide industrial customers merits, total annual remuneration is at the upper quartile of with a full suite of products to meet their coding and marking and the market.
In turn, this enables Domino to continue to grow its market share in this industry and deliver a sustained increase in The main components of the remuneration policy, and how they profitability, cash flow and shareholder value.
To achieve these are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, are objectives, it is vital that the remuneration policy devised and summarised on page 54. applied by the Committee supports this strategy.
54 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report continued Component Overview Link to strategy Changes for 2013 Salary and benefits fixed Reflects level of responsibility Level at which high-quality Salary increase of 2.8 per cent and achievement of individual.
directors can be attracted to to 3.0 per cent awarded to the Company.
Executive Directors, in line Salaries set by reference to the with that of 3.2 per cent median of the market and awarded to the Groups increases awarded to Group UK employees.
Annual bonus plan variable Ability to earn up to 100 per Performance conditions None.
cent of salary on achievement directly linked to Companys of specified goals.
strategy of achieving growth in the short-term and long-term.
30 per cent Group Profit, 20 per cent cash generation Acts to motivate individuals to and 50 per cent personal drive strong performance and objectives.
link to shareholding requirement ensures focus on Payment for personal long-term performance as well objectives is geared to as short-term performance.
achievement of Group profit and cash generation objectives and can only be achieved if shareholding requirement met.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Annual award of up to 100 per Performance conditions None.
variable cent of salary with vesting support the Companys subject to the satisfaction of strategy of motivating performance conditions EPS individuals to drive strong 50 per cent and relative TSR performance over the 50 per cent over a three long-term and also provide a year performance period.
Shareholding requirements Requirement to build and Direct alignment with the None.
other maintain a holding of at least interests of shareholders.
Total compensation potential assuming 100 per cent achievement The remuneration policy described above will be applied in the of bonuses forthcoming year as the Committee believes that it remains appropriate Q Gains on LTIP and continues to support the Companys business strategy.
100% 1 maturing in year Q Maximum Bonus In respect of 2012, the split of potential maximum remuneration for 75% Q Benefits the Executive Directors between fixed salary, pension and benefits in Q Pension 50% Q Salary and fees kind and variable bonus and gains made on Long-Term Incentive Plan share schemes was as follows.
This has been calculated based on a 25% maximum annual bonus being achieved and the face value of awards granted under the LTIP schemes maturing in the year.
N Bond G Havens A Herbert 1 There were two Long-Term Incentive Plan schemes that matured during 2012, a result of the changes made between schemes in the period to 2008 and from 2008 to date.
55 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Salary For the year under review, the annual bonus plan was structured Policy median of FTSE 250 as follows: Salaries and benefits are established by reference to those prevailing Maximum that in the employment market generally for executives of comparable can be earned experience and skills and take into account the level of responsibility Performance measure % of salary of the individual as well as his performance over the year.
Salary levels Group profit PBTA 30% are reviewed on an annual basis and the employment market used for Group cash Operating cash flow before capital expenditure 20% this comparison consists of FTSE 250 companies of a similar market Personal objectives 50% capitalisation and with similar revenues to the Company.
This data is obtained from salary surveys produced by major consultants.
This The Group profit and cash components operate separately and group of comparator companies is considered to be appropriate as payments are made on a straight line basis between the threshold it reflects the key characteristics of the Company and the market in and maximum levels.
If an Executive Director achieves his personal which the Company operates and from which it recruits its executives.
objectives, a multiplier is applied to the amount earned under the Broadly, the Committee seeks to pitch base salary around the financial conditions.
The value of the multiplier is dependent on the median level for comparable positions in this market, without tracking level of achievement with the maximum that can be earned under it mechanistically.
this element being 50 per cent of salary by means of a multiplier of two.
However, the personal objectives multiplier will only be applied In assessing salary levels, as well as the factors described above, if the Executive Director has reached and maintained his shareholding the Committee also takes into account the pay and employment requirement, as set by the Committee.
If the Executive Director conditions elsewhere in the Group, particularly those of its employees meets his personal objectives but the financial conditions are not in the UK.
However, it should be noted that the salary review date for achieved, then no bonus payment will be made.
This ensures that any Executive Directors is in May whilst the review date for other UK bonus payments are aligned to the strategic objectives of the Group employees is July.
and that payments are made only when the Groups financial performance justifies this.
For 2013, the Committee has awarded a salary increase of between 2.8 per cent and 3.0 per cent to the Executive Directors.
This is In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors compared with an increase of 3.2 per cent which was awarded to the performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee, in Groups UK employees in July 2012. consultation with the Group Managing Director in respect of the other Executive Directors, and performance against the annual This means that, with effect from 1 May 2012, the salary levels for the bonus plan measures was as follows: Executive Directors are as follows: % of salary earned Group Personal Nigel Bond 417,000 increase of 3.0 per cent profit Group cash objectives Total Andrew Herbert 257,000 increase of 2.8 per cent Garry Havens 221,000 increase of 2.8 per cent Nigel Bond 0.00% 11.23% 5.62% 16.85% Andrew Herbert 0.00% 11.23% 8.42% 19.65% Garry Havens 0.00% 11.23% 5.62% 16.85% Annual bonus plan Policy To provide an opportunity to earn an upper quartile level Although an element of the cash target was achieved the Committee of total remuneration exercised its discretion not to award any bonus.
Executive Directors participate in an annual performance related bonus scheme.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the year under The structure of the annual bonus plan as described above will be review was 100 per cent of base salary and this maximum will be unchanged for 2013 in respect of Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert.
This provides a competitive opportunity which However, there will be an amendment to the structure in so far as it is in line with the market.
This amendment links the bonus of Garry Havens to the performance of the US business, recognising his role When setting the performance conditions and targets applicable to of President North America and Group Executive Director.
the annual bonus plan, the Committee spends considerable time to ensure that they are suitably demanding and aligned with the Long-Term Incentive Plans objectives of the Group.
It also concentrates on ensuring that personal Policy To provide an opportunity to earn an upper quartile level objectives are specific and measurable.
The Committee believes that of total remuneration the financial conditions of Group profit and cash generation are The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in: appropriate as they are directly linked to the Companys strategy of growth and delivering a sustained increase in profitability, cash flow the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2008: and shareholder value.
Personal objectives vary by reference to the the Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme: and particular individual but include objectives around business processes the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
and delivery of business specific strategies.
The SAYE and SIP are HMRC approved plans which are open to all UK-based employees.
56 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan 2008 This plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2008.
Under the terms of the plan the Committee may grant awards to the Executive Directors and employees of the Company or other Group companies.
Unless the Committee otherwise decides, the aggregate value of the shares awarded in each year will not exceed an amount equal to the recipients annual basic salary.
Awards are made annually to the Executive Directors and certain senior managers who are in a position to influence significantly the performance of the Group.
In determining the size of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards, the Committee takes into account the extent to which the participant is in a position to influence the performance of the Group and the need to provide effective and competitive incentives.
For the year under review, awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan to Executive Directors equated to 100 per cent of salary, calculated by reference to the market value of shares under award as at the grant date.
For 2013, there is no intention to change this policy.
The awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan are subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years or more.
For awards made in 2008 and subsequent years, including 2012, the performance period is three years.
At the end of the performance period the awards will vest to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied.
There is no retesting of performance conditions and if they are not satisfied, the awards will lapse.
For awards made in 2012, the performance metrics and targets are as follows: Performance metric Commercial rationale Basis of measurement EPS growth EPS provides focus on improving profitability, which Underlying EPS figure reported in the audited accounts in turn drives up growth in shareholder value of the Group for the last complete financial year ending S imple before the start of the performance period and the T ransparent last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period will be used.
RPI is as published by the Office of National Statistics.
Relative TSR TSR also provides focus on improving profitability Average of the Groups closing mid-market share price and driving up growth in shareholder value.
It also over the three months preceding the start of the provides alignment with shareholders performance period and preceding the end of the FTSE 250 appropriate comparators due to Dominos performance period will be used.
Data is taken from size and sector the Return Index produced by Thomson One.
% Vesting level TSR 50% EPS 50% Performance Award date Condition achieved Vesting % Threshold 12.5%MedianRPI 12% 12 December 2008 EPS growth 68% 50% Maximum 50.0% Upper quartile RPI 30% Relative TSR Top quartile 50% Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a Total 100% straight-line basis.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance All costs of the Long-Term Incentive Plan are borne by Domino conditions for the award made on 9 December 2009 had been Printing Sciences plc and recharged to appropriate operating satisfied, with the following results: companies.
Performance Award date Condition achieved Vesting % The structure of the Long-Term Incentive Plan as described above 9 December 2009 EPS growth 52% 50% will be unchanged for 2013.
Relative TSR Top quartile 50% The performance period applicable to awards granted in 2009 Total 100% ended in 2012.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions had been satisfied, with the following results: 57 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 A number of other awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive award.
This deferred element was included in assessing the value Plan are part way through the relevant three year performance period.
of the original conditional award.
At the end of this deferral period, The table below indicates the level of performance achieved in respect the executive is free to deal with the shares as he or she wishes.
of these awards as at 31 October 2012 and on the assumption that the performance period ends on this date.
This interim performance Additional shares were allocated to the Executive Directors measurement is not an indication of the level of vesting at the end in January 2012.
All additional shares allocated will be released of the applicable performance period, as this will depend upon during 2013.
Details of these shares are provided in note 6 performance achieved over the entire performance period.
Performance Dilution achieved up to Indicative vesting Award date Condition 31 October 2012 % Awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plans can be satisfied by the issue of new shares, transfer of treasury shares or transfer of 14 December 2010 EPS growth 0.4% 0% existing shares purchased in the market.
The Company monitors the Relative TSR 3rd quartile 0% number of shares issued under the plans and their impact on dilution 14 December 2011 EPS growth 6.4 % 0% limits.
The Companys usage of shares compared to the dilution limits Relative TSR 3rd quartile 0% set by the Association of British Insurers ABI in respect of all share plans 10 per cent in any rolling 10 year period and discretionary share Save As You Earn SAYE share option schemes plans 5 per cent in any rolling 10 year period as at 31 October 2012 All UK-based employees, including Executive Directors, are entitled to was as follows: participate in the SAYE scheme.
This is not subject to any performance conditions.
Since this is a standard, HMRC approved scheme open to All share plans all employees it was not considered appropriate to include such Actual 6 per cent conditions.
Limit 10 per cent Share Incentive Plan SIP Discretionary share plans LTIP 1997, LTIP 2008 and Executive share The Company operates an HMRC approved SIP to enable employees options to invest in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way.
This plan is Actual 4 per cent open to all UK-based employees.
Limit 5 per cent Executive share option schemes Pensions The Company has operated Executive share option schemes since Executive Directors are members of a defined contribution 1985.
Executive Directors and other senior executives do not scheme that is available to all Domino UK employees.
For the year participate in these schemes.
Executive share options are currently commencing 1 November 2011, the Company contribution was granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers.
25.5 per cent of salary and the Executive Directors contribution was 4.5 per cent of salary.
The exercise of executive options granted after 2003 is conditional on EPS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RPI plus 9 per cent.
In response to the changes to pension allowances which took effect in For options granted before 2005, basic EPS was used for the April 2011, the Company introduced a supplementary pension plan.
For options granted in 2005, and subsequent Participants in this plan may choose to limit the annual pension years, underlying EPS is used.
contribution made by the Company on their behalf so that the total amount of their annual contributions to the Company scheme is Achievement of EPS performance conditions is assessed by reference restricted to the amount of the annual pension allowance.
Any to earnings per share as reported in the Groups audited results and amounts that would have been paid by the Company as a pension the RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
contribution in the absence of this limitation are paid to the participant in cash.
Participants who have pension savings at or close to the Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 lifetime pension allowance may choose to stop contributions to the The last awards made under this plan were granted in 2007.
Company scheme and receive the amounts that would otherwise have Conditional awards of shares were granted annually to all the been made by the Company as a cash payment.
Income tax and Executive Directors and certain senior managers.
There was no National Insurance will be deducted from cash payments made under maximum award value stated in the plan but in practice a limit was this supplementary plan.
The payments will also be reduced by the adopted of 60 per cent of the individuals base salary.
Vesting of the amount of the Companys additional employers National Insurance award was subject to the satisfaction of objective performance cost arising in respect of the payments.
conditions relative TSR 50 per cent and growth in EPS 50 per cent.
Awards vested subject to the satisfaction of these conditions Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert joined the supplementary pension at the end of the three year performance period.
plan with effect from 6 April 2011.
The resulting shares were then held in trust for a further three years.
These cash payments are not included in salary in respect of the During this period, additional awards were made annually based on calculation of the remainder of the executive remuneration package the number of shares allocated based on performance levels achieved, including entitlements under the bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan.
giving a possible maximum addition of 72 per cent of the original 58 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report continued Service contracts The following table summarises the key provisions of the service contracts with Executive Directors and any revisions to these provisions agreed during the year: Service contracts Provision Current service contract Revised policy for current and new appointments Notice period 12 months notice by the Company Six months notice by the Executive Director No Executive Director has a notice period longer than 12 months Expiry date Rolling service contract No fixed expiry date Termination Company reserves the right to pay salary in lieu payments of notice Approach to termination payments is to consider the specific circumstances of the termination, including the reasons, contractual obligations and rules of the share plan Committee would seek to apply mitigation to the extent practicable Termination Existing contracts provide that where contract is Existing provision regarding termination payment payments terminated by the Company within two years of a after change of control removed from contracts with following a change change of control or by the Executive Director effect from 1 December 2012 of control within six months of a change of control, a payment On a change of control, the Executive Director will based on the following will be made: receive a bonus payment based on performance - 12 months salary and benefits level achieved during the performance period and - Average bonus percentage paid over the three up to the date of change of control.
Committee will years prior to termination date and applied to have discretion to pro rate the payment for the base salary at termination date portion of performance period served - Bonus for year of termination of employment Awards granted under Long-Term Incentive Plans based on maximum earning percentage and pro will be treated in accordance with plan rules on a rated for period of year served change of control Where employment is terminated after a change of control, no special provisions will apply and termination payments will be determined in line with Companys standard policy As summarised in the table above, the Company has agreed with and not to be distracted by any possible impact on their remuneration.
its Executive Directors that the provision in their service contracts However, the Committee recognises that some shareholders had relating to a particular payment on termination of employment within concerns about this provision and, following discussions with each of a specified period after a change of control will be removed with the Executive Directors, this particular provision has been removed effect from 1 December 2012 and that no payment will be made from the service contracts.
The effect of this is that no special to the Executive Directors in consideration for this change.
arrangements will apply where employment is terminated following a change of control and the standard provisions relating to payments in The rationale for including such a provision in the original service lieu of notice and termination payments summarised above will apply.
contracts was to encourage Executive Directors to focus on the The service contract for any new director appointments will be business when working towards and recommending a transaction consistent with this principle.
59 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Shareholding requirement The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares.
This equates to a shareholding broadly equivalent to the following in terms of percentage of base salary, taking the average mid-market share price over the financial year: Nigel Bond 55 per cent Andrew Herbert 89 per cent Garry Havens 104 per cent Shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 are not counted towards this requirement.
Each Executive Director holds more than 40,000 shares.
The table below summarises the Directors interests in shares and the extent to which the shareholding requirement applicable to Executive Directors has been achieved.
In each case, the shareholding requirement has been achieved, excluding LTIP shares and the interest in SIP shares: LTIP shares held in trust for the Interest in Share 31 October 31 October benefit of the Incentive Plan 2012 2011 Director shares Other shares held Total Total Number Number Number Number Number 1 P Byrom 302,000 302,000 314,000 N Bond 31,265 5,245 77,388 113,898 151,324 Sir David Brown 10,000 10,000 10,000 G Havens 16,541 5,245 44,936 66,722 83,994 A Herbert 19,061 5,245 46,852 71,158 93,141 C Brinsmead 10,000 10,000 10,000 P Ruffles 30,000 30,000 30,000 1 Sir Mark Wrightson 40,935 40,935 40,935 1 Mr Byrom has a non-beneficial interest in a further 36,000 shares 2011: 24,000 shares and Sir Mark Wrightson has a non-beneficial interest in a further 1,050 shares 2011: 700 shares.
No other Director had a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the Company or any other Group company.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration throughout the Group Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board, The Group seeks to establish remuneration packages that will attract, although individual Directors do not participate in the determination retain and motivate high quality employees.
Each Non-Executive Director receives a fee which relates to membership of the Board as well as committee Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business chairmanship or membership and no additional fees are paid for performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes, which, committee membership.
together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group.
All employees are The general policy is that fee levels are set at the level paid for eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP, with subsidiary general comparable roles at companies of a similar size and complexity to managers and other senior managers also eligible to participate Domino.
FTSE 250 companies are considered to be comparable for in the Executive share option schemes.
Fee levels are set by reference to the median of this peer group.
TSR performance The graph below shows the Groups performance, measured by TSR, Fee levels are reviewed annually in November.
Fee data produced by compared with the performance of the FTSE Mid 250 Total Return major consultancy firms regarding FTSE 250 companies is considered Index for the period 1 November 2007 to 31 October 2012. as part of this review.
As a result of this review, the Board has determined that Non-Executive Directors fees will be increased by Five year total shareholder return performance 2.5 per cent and the Committee has determined that the Chairmans 300 fee will be increased by 2.5 per cent with effect from 1 November 2012.
This means that the Chairmans fee is 171,175 and the fee paid 250 to each Non-Executive Director is 41,500.
200 Under their letters of appointment, the Non-Executive Directors, 150 including the Chairman, are entitled to receive six months notice of the termination of their appointment.
100 50 0 Oct 07 Oct 08 Oct 09 Oct 10 Oct 11 Oct 12 Five year period from 1 November 2007 to 31 October 2012 Domino Printing Sciences plc FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index TSR % from 1 November 2007 60 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Remuneration Report continued AUDITED INFORMATION Further information The table below summarises the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 October 2012.
Amounts receivable under long-term Gains Salary and incentive on share fees Bonus Benefits schemes Pension options 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executives N Bond 411 17 1,185 91 1,704 1,452 G Havens 217 56 643 56 7 979 821 A Herbert 254 16 724 56 1,050 923 Non-Executives 1 P Byrom Chairman 167 167 163 P Ruffles 41 41 39 Sir Mark Wrightson 41 41 39 Sir David Brown 41 41 39 C Brinsmead 41 41 39 Total emoluments 1,213 89 2,552 203 7 4,064 3,515 1 Fees totalling 66,800 2011: 64,800 were paid to Stockbridge Limited, a company of which Mr Byrom is a Director.
Payments made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in the year relate to original conditional allocations of shares made in 2006 and 2009.
The initial performance period for the conditional allocation made in 2006 was from 2006 to 2009.
Shares which vested in 2009 were then held in trust for a further three year period over which time additional awards were made in line with the scheme rules.
The performance period for the conditional allocation made in 2009 was from 12 December 2008 to 12 December 2011.
Performance conditions are outlined in this report on page 56.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Sir David Brown Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 December 2012
