66 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee is pleased to present its annual report on directors remuneration.
Chairmans introduction and highlights Performance over the longer-term has also been strong, delivering average annual The Committee, whose membership, growth in benchmark profit before tax remit and responsibilities are set out in and earnings per share of 12% and 9.7% P63 the statement on corporate governance, respectively over the last three years.
continues to assess how best to support The relevant performance conditions for longand encourage the executive directors to term incentive awards granted in June 2009 create shareholder value and ensure that the were measured at 31 March 2012 and, as a Groups remuneration policy is aligned with result, awards under the Performance Share shareholders interests.
Our report sets out Plan, Share Option Plan and Co-investment how we believe that we achieve this.
Experians remuneration philosophy is that Plans will vest on 18 June 2012. reward should be used to drive long term, During the past year the salaries of the The Committee is of the opinion that sustainable business performance.
executive directors were increased by the executive directors are rewarded some 3% which was in line with the wider Roger Davis appropriately and that their remuneration employee population.
The Committee was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee recognises their contribution to the ongoing mindful of the pay restraint which had been success of the Group.
exercised across the Group and will ensure that future salary rises will continue to be We continue to set performance targets positioned from this perspective.
that are robust but achievable and we are careful that they are of equivalent stretch Sadly during the year, Paul Brooks, Chief from year to year whatever the change in the Financial Officer, died and he was succeeded economic climate or trading conditions.
by Brian Cassin who joined the Board on 30 April 2012.
The Committee approved the Above all, the Committee seeks to balance remuneration arrangements for Brian Cassin the interests of all stakeholders and is and further details are set out in the relevant hopeful that shareholders will be able to sections of this report.
endorse its activities by supporting the resolution to approve this report on directors Encouragingly, the Group has once remuneration which will be proposed at the again delivered a strong set of results for annual general meeting on 18 July 2012. shareholders with Benchmark profit before P30 tax of US$1,128m, up 23% on the prior year.
As a result a full bonus was payable to the executive directors.
The Committee had set stretching targets at the beginning of the year and required material outperformance for the payout that was earned.
This underlines our view that exceptional rewards are only paid for exceptional performance.
Don Robert and Chris Callero have elected to defer 100% of their bonus into the Co-investment Plan, as they always have done, which the Committee welcomes as a strong signal of their confidence in the Company and further strengthening of their alignment of interests with those of shareholders.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 67 Remuneration in summary This section provides a summary of key remuneration arrangements for our executive directors.
More detail of how these were operated during the year ended 31 March 2012, and are intended to be operated in future, is provided later in this report.
Don Robert and Chris Callero have deferred their entire annual bonus shown above and will be awarded invested shares under the Co-investment Plan in respect of this deferral.
They will have the opportunity to earn matching shares on this deferral, subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
Paul Brooks died on 6 January 2012.
The salary and benefits figures in the above table are those earned to 31 January 2012: annual bonus is that for the full year ended 31 March 2012.
Summary of long-term remuneration awarded in 2012 Shares awarded under Shares awarded under Co-investment Plans 1 2 1 Performance Share Plan Invested shares Matching shares Don Robert 233,006 221,523 443,046 Paul Brooks 124,129 57,456 239,401 Chris Callero 149,124 142,080 284,160 1.
Awards under the Performance Share Plan and matching shares awarded under the Co-investment Plans will only vest to the extent that stretching performance targets are met.
These targets are described later in this report.
The directors deferred their entire annual bonus for 2011 and the invested shares shown above were awarded in respect of this deferral.
Summary of proposed remuneration arrangements for the year ending 31 March 2013 The Committee reviews remuneration arrangements annually to ensure they remain suitable in the light of both internal and external factors.
This year, the Committee concluded that the key elements of the existing arrangements remained aligned with the core principles of Experians remuneration policy and long-term business strategy and therefore no changes to the overall structure of the remuneration package were required.
The Committee agreed the following key changes for the year ending 31 March 2013: Salaries have been increased in line with salaries for the wider employee population: and Performance targets have been reviewed by the Committee and as a result the cumulative cash flow target which applies to the Co-investment Plan has increased.
The Committee considered that the other long-term targets remain appropriate.
68 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Summary of remuneration elements The table below sets out the current structure of the remuneration package for the executive directors: Elements Key features Purpose and link to strategy Reflects the competitive market salary for the Base salary Takes account of personal contribution role and performance against Group strategy Reviewed annually against level of pay awards throughout the organisation, external market and in the light of Group and personal performance Annual bonus Performance measure is growth in Rewards achievement against a stretching 1 Benchmark profit before tax PBT performance condition linked to Experians strategy to drive profitable growth Maximum bonus for executive directors is 200% of salary Participants are invited to invest some or Performance measures directly link to Experian all of their annual bonus in Experian shares Experians strategy to drive profitable Co-investment Plan with the opportunity to earn matching growth and optimise capital efficiency shares at a maximum of two shares for Aligns with shareholder interests through every one invested subject to the following investment of bonus and delivery of shares performance measures, tested over a threeEncourages long-term commitment to the year period: Group from participants 1 Growth in PBT T T : and Cumulative operating cash flow cash flow.
An award of shares of up to 200% of salary in Performance measures directly link to Experian Performance normal circumstances may be made which Experians strategy to drive profitable Share Plan vests subject to the following performance growth and optimise capital efficiency measures, tested over a three-year period: Aligns with shareholder interests through 1 Growth in PBT T T : and use of TSR performance criteria and Total Shareholder Return TSR outdelivery in shares performance against the FTSE 100.
In addition, awards will be subject to the achievement of satisfactory Return on Capital Employed ROCE performance Benefits Defined benefit or defined contribution To provide market appropriate benefits pension Other benefits including car and private medical insurance 1 All subsequent references in the report on directors remuneration to PBT refer to Benchmark PBT Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 69 Explanation of remuneration Introduction This report has been drawn up in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee: members, role and frequency of meetings P63 Details of the Committee members, the scope of their role and frequency of meetings can be found in the corporate governance statement.
Working with advisers In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group HR Director.
Other senior members of Experians reward function are also invited to attend meetings of the Committee as appropriate.
The Chief Financial Officer is also normally consulted in respect of performance conditions applying to short and long-term incentive arrangements.
No executives are present when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives objective advice.
In 2007, Deloitte LLP Deloitte were appointed by the Committee as independent advisers and they continued to act in this role during the year ended 31 March 2012.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory and tax services to the Group during the year.
In addition, Kepler Associates Kepler provided remuneration data, incentive plan award valuations and supporting data for the target calibration process.
Kepler does not provide any other services to the Group.
Linklaters LLP provided legal advice in respect of incentive plan design and interpretation in addition to other legal services to the Group during the year.
Remuneration philosophy and principles Experians remuneration philosophy is that reward should be used to drive long-term, sustainable business performance.
In this regard, the Committee aims to have in place remuneration principles for Experian which are consistent with its business objectives and are designed to: drive accountability and transparency and align remuneration with the interests of shareholders: provide a balanced portfolio of incentives which align both short-term one-year and longer-term three-year performance such that sustainable growth and value are delivered for our shareholders: apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained profitable growth across the Group, thereby aligning incentives with shareholders interests, setting these conditions with due regard to actual and expected market conditions: pay base salaries that are market-competitive and appropriate in the context of the individuals performance and experience as well as the remuneration arrangements throughout the Group: provide competitive performance-related compensation which influences performance and helps attract and retain executives by providing the opportunity to earn commensurate rewards for the achievement of outstanding performance, which leads to long-term shareholder value creation: and deliver competitive benefits to underpin the other components of the remuneration package.
Consistent with these principles, the Committee compares the Experian remuneration arrangements with those of other relevant organisations and companies of similar size and scope to Experian.
The remuneration arrangements are also reviewed in light of changing market conditions, which continue to be challenging.
Performance-related incentives are targeted at upper quartile levels for the achievement of stretching objectives.
Experian is committed to performance-related pay at all levels within the organisation and the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements throughout Experian when determining those for the executive directors.
The performance measures used in Experians incentive plans are all financial, with growth in profit being the key measure used.
This measure was selected as it reflects one of Experians key strategic objectives driving profitable growth.
The performance management process, which is used throughout Experian, assesses executives against both financial and non-financial performance objectives.
Performance against these individual objectives ultimately supports growth in profit and so the Committee believes it is appropriate that this remains the key measure for the Groups incentive plans.
For the long-term incentive plans, external consultants are used to calculate whether, and the extent to which, the performance conditions have been met.
The management of the Groups specific business risks is governed by its risk management framework and is inherent in the way in which P24 Experian operates.
As a result of this operational focus on risk management, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive arrangements do not encourage excessive risk taking and therefore it is not considered necessary to have a direct link to risk in the performance measures used.
70 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued The Committee believes reward at Experian is appropriately balanced against risk considerations, particularly in the following areas: Reward alignment with risk considerations Co-investment Between 50% and 100% of the annual bonus may be deferred into shares The executive directors and the vast majority Deferral for three years.
These deferred shares together with shares awarded of senior management invited to participate under the long-term incentive plan mean that a significant portion of total have elected to defer their entire annual remuneration is delivered in the form of shares deferred for a period of bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2012. three years.
Shareholding Executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a shareholding The shareholdings of Don Robert and requirements of at least 100% of salary 200% for the CEO.
Chris Callero greatly exceed the minimum requirement.
Clawback Vesting of awards made under the Experian Performance Share Plan and This feature was introduced for incentive matching awards under the Experian Co-investment Plan will only occur plan grants in June 2011 and will be in place if the Committee is satisfied that the vesting is not based on any material for future awards.
misstatement of accounts: and Where any bonus is paid which is ultimately found to have been based on materially misstated financial results, the bonus opportunity may be reduced accordingly in the following financial year.
With respect to Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that environmental, social and governance risks are not raised by the incentive structure for senior management and this does not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration of executive directors The following graphs illustrate the remuneration package for the executive directors, split between fixed and variable pay, at target and maximum levels of performance.
The combined potential remuneration from annual bonus and share-based incentives i. e. variable pay outweighs the fixed elements excluding pension and benefits at both levels of performance.
As the relativities of the fixed and variable elements are the same for each executive director we have not provided graphs on an individual basis.
Expected value of executive directors Expected value of executive directors remuneration at target performance remuneration at maximum performance 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% Variable: long-term Variable: long-term Variable: short-term Variable: short-term Fixed Fixed Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 71 Service contracts Each executive director has a rolling service contract which can be terminated by the Group giving twelve months notice.
In the event of termination of the directors contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance with normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation to the extent appropriate in the circumstances of the case.
Further details are provided in the section entitled Executive P81 directors service contracts.
Fixed remuneration Base salary and benefits Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the Committee assesses each directors individual performance and experience as well as average pay increases awarded to other employees in the Group.
To assess the appropriate salary for a role, benchmark data, sourced from external remuneration consultants, is provided to the Committee.
Executive directors salaries are benchmarked against those of executive directors from the companies in the FTSE 100 Index along with other global comparators, reflecting the markets from which Experian recruits talent.
These include, but are not limited to, international companies of a similar size and geographic scope, companies in the financial services and related industries and companies with significant operations in the same markets as Experian.
The Committee reviewed salaries in early 2012 and, taking into account the factors described above, approved increases as detailed below.
These increases are in line with those awarded to the wider employee population.
Brian Cassins salary is from 30 April 2012 when he joined the Company.
In addition to base salary, executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind including a car or car allowance, private health cover and life assurance.
These are set at market competitive levels for each role.
Pensions In the UK, a defined contribution plan is available for all employees, with an employer contribution rate in normal circumstances of up to 20% for the most senior executives.
Retirement age is 65 but benefits can be taken from age 55 onwards.
The UK defined benefit arrangements are closed to new entrants, subject only to exceptions approved by the Committee on a case by case basis.
There are no directors who are members of the UK defined benefit scheme.
In the US, Experian provides a Personal Investment Plan 401k which all US employees, including directors, are eligible to join.
This is a defined contribution arrangement to which participants are able to contribute up to 50% of salary, up to a maximum salary and participant contribution limit established by the IRS, each calendar year.
A supplementary unfunded defined benefit arrangement is provided in the US for Don Robert.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonuses are awarded for achieving profit growth targets.
The Committee believes this is appropriate as it reflects one of Experians key strategic objectives driving profitable growth.
The maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors is 200% of base salary.
However, this level of annual bonus is only payable if Experians financial performance surpasses stretching profit growth targets, designed to deliver exceptional results to shareholders.
The calibration of these targets is based on benchmarks that reflect stretching internal and external expectations.
The benchmarks considered include: broker earnings estimates, earnings estimates for competitors, latest projections for the current year, budget and strategic plan.
Annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 The Committee set targets for the annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 which required stretching levels of performance with reference to relevant external benchmarks in order for maximum bonus to be earned.
Experian delivered exceptional profit growth over the year in an economic environment which continued to be challenging in most of the markets in which we operate.
The level of profit growth achieved exceeded the maximum target set by the Committee and so a bonus of 200% of salary was payable to the executive directors.
Co-investment Plan The Experian Co-investment Plan the CIP provides the executive directors with the opportunity to defer between 50% and 100% of their annual bonus into Experian shares invested shares that are matched with an additional award of shares matching shares with the maximum match being calculated on the basis of two matching shares for each invested share 2:1 basis.
If no annual bonus is earned in the year there can be no participation in the CIP.
The release of invested shares and matching shares is deferred for three years and the release of the matching shares is subject to performance conditions which are measured over that period.
72 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued The operation of the CIP is described in the following schematic: Annual bonus, where Invested shares Three year Invested shares earned, is deferred deferral period released in full and invested in Experian shares Matching shares Three year Matching shares Up to 2 : 1 match performance released to the extent on Invested shares.
period that performance Committee sets conditions are performance targets satisfied Performance conditions are determined by the Committee in advance of grant and dividend equivalents accrue on these awards.
If a participant resigns during the three-year period they forfeit the right to the matching shares and the associated dividends, although they would be entitled to retain any invested shares.
Matching awards under the CIP may vest early in the event of a change of control but will be pro-rated for time and performance.
Details of the awards granted in June 2011 are given in the table entitled GUS and Experian Co-investment Plans and Experian Reinvestment P79 Plans.
CIP performance metrics From 2010 the vesting of awards under the CIP has been based 50% on the achievement of a growth in PBT performance condition, measured over three years, with the other 50% subject to the achievement of a three-year cash flow target.
The Committee selected these two performance measures as they reflect two of Experians key strategic objectives driving profitable growth and optimising capital efficiency.
The executive directors have elected to defer 100% of their bonus earned in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 into the CIP.
It is intended that the same performance measures will be used for the matching awards to be made in May 2012 as for the awards made in June 2011 i. e. growth in PBT and cash flow.
Economic conditions continue to be challenging and as a result the Committee believes that the PBT growth target set in 2011 continues to be appropriately calibrated.
The cash flow target has been increased to reflect the Groups increasing absolute profitability.
Both performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period and the specific targets for the May 2012 awards are set out in the following tables along with the targets for the 2010 and 2011 awards: PBT growth 50% of an award Cash flow 50% of an award Vesting Vesting 0% 50% 100% 0% 50% 100% 2010 Below 5% 5% 11% 2010 Below $2.9bn $2.9bn $3.3bn 2011 Below 7% 7% 14% 2011 Below $3.0bn $3.0bn $3.4bn 2012 Below 7% 7% 14% 2012 Below $3.7bn $3.7bn $4.1bn straight line vesting between points In addition, vesting of any awards made in June 2011 and May 2012 will be subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on financial results which have been materially misstated.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 73 Annual bonus and CIP in respect of the year ending 31 March 2013 It is intended that annual bonus arrangements and the operation of the CIP for executive directors will remain unchanged for the year ending 31 March 2013.
For matching shares awarded under the CIP, the final performance measures and targets will be determined shortly before the awards are made in May 2012 and will be disclosed at the appropriate time.
However, the Committee undertakes to ensure that any targets, whilst they must be seen as achievable to retain and motivate executives during the deferral period, are sufficiently stretching in order to deliver significant shareholder value.
Experian Performance Share Plan the PSP Under the PSP, shares are awarded to participants subject to the achievement of performance conditions, which are measured over a three-year period.
The maximum award under the PSP is normally 200% of base salary, although up to 400% of salary may be awarded under exceptional circumstances.
Any vesting occurs three years from the date of grant and dividend equivalents accrue on the vested shares.
Awards under the PSP may vest early in the event of a change of control but will be pro-rated for time and performance.
P80 Details of the awards granted in June 2011 are given in the table entitled Performance Share Plan.
The operation of the PSP is described in the following schematic: Awards granted 75% of the award Shares subject to to participants.
is subject to growth growth in PBT vest Remuneration in PBT to the extent that Committee sets the performance performance condition is satisfied targets Three year performance period 25% of the award Shares subject to is subject to TSR TSR performance performance vest to the extent that the performance condition is satisfied PSP performance metrics The vesting of awards under the PSP is based 75% on the achievement of a growth in PBT performance condition, measured over three years, with the other 25% subject to the achievement of a TSR target.
The Committee has selected these two performance measures as they reflect a key strategic objective of Experian driving profitable growth and represent the value delivered to shareholders relative to Experians peers.
The performance targets for all outstanding PSP awards, and those expected to be granted in May 2012, are set out in the following tables: PBT growth 75% of an award TSR vs. FTSE 100 - % outperformance 25% of an award Vesting Vesting 0% 25% 100% 0% 25% 100% 2010 Below 5% 5% 11% 2010 Below Index Equal to Index 25% Above Index 2011 Below 7% 7% 14% 2011 Below Index Equal to Index 25% Above Index 2012 Below 7% 7% 14% 2012 Below Index Equal to Index 25% Above Index straight line vesting between points The Committee has reviewed the calibration of the performance targets and considers that in the light of uncertain market conditions the targets set in 2011 continue to be appropriate for the awards to be made in 2012.
In addition, all outstanding awards are subject to a ROCE performance underpin.
Additionally, a clawback feature was introduced in 2011 whereby the vesting of awards granted in June 2011, and in the future, is subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on financial results which have been materially misstated.
74 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Experian Share Option Plan ESOP As has been the policy from 2010, no grants were made under this plan in 2011 and the Committee has agreed this will also be the case for 2012 other than in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum award under the ESOP is normally 200% of base salary, although up to 400% of salary may be awarded under exceptional circumstances.
Use of the ESOP in the future will remain under review by the Committee.
Details of P78 outstanding awards under the ESOP and the associated performance conditions are set out in the table entitled Share options.
Experian Sharesave Plans All executive directors and employees of the Company, and any participating subsidiaries in which Sharesave or a local equivalent is operated, are eligible to participate if they are employed by the Group at a qualifying date.
As an example of these plans, the UK Sharesave Plan provides an opportunity for employees to save a regular monthly amount, over either three or five years, and, at the end of that period, the savings may be used to purchase Experian shares at up to 20% below market value at the date of grant.
One-off share award to Brian Cassin Brian Cassin joined the Board on 30 April 2012.
In order to facilitate his recruitment, the Company has agreed to grant him a one-off share award to compensate him for the loss of incentives from his previous employer.
The award will vest, subject to Brian Cassins continued employment, over a period of five years.
The award is expected to be granted in May 2012 and will have a face value of approximately 1.3m.
Full details of the award will be disclosed at the time it is granted and in next years remuneration report, as appropriate.
The award is not pensionable and any amendments to the terms of the award which would be to Brian Cassins advantage apart from certain minor amendments are subject to shareholder approval.
Shares released to participants in the year ended 31 March 2012 Experian Reinvestment Plans At demerger, outstanding awards under the GUS Co-investment Plans were reinvested in awards under the Experian Reinvestment Plans with matching awards available subject to further performance conditions, based on PBT growth and continued employment.
Any vested matching shares were released in three tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Following the end of the performance period in March 2009, the Committee determined that 92% of the awards subject to the PBT performance condition would vest and in the year ended 31 March 2012, the last tranche of the award was released to the executive directors.
Details of these shares are set out in the table entitled GUS P79 and Experian Co-investment Plans and Experian Reinvestment Plans.
Experian Performance Share Plan At demerger, executive directors received share awards under the Experian PSP with a face value of two times salary that were subject to PBT and TSR performance conditions.
When these were tested at the end of the performance period in October 2009, the Committee determined that 80.7% of the awards would vest.
Whilst the measurement period was over the three years from the date of grant, the release of the awards was deferred for a further two years i. e. until the 5th anniversary of the date of grant.
These awards therefore vested in October 2011 and details P80 of the shares released are set out in the table entitled Performance Share Plan.
Outcome of performance testing for performance periods ending on 31 March 2012 Experian Share Option Plan In June 2009 participants were granted options subject to the achievement of a growth in benchmark earnings per share EPS target measured over a three-year performance period that ended as at 31 March 2012.
For EPS growth of at least 4% per annum on average 25% of an option would vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of at least 8% per annum on average.
Vesting is also subject to the Committee confirming that ROCE performance has been satisfactory.
The Committee tested the performance condition as at 31 March 2012 and determined that the average annual EPS growth over the period was 9.7% and that ROCE performance was satisfactory, as a result of which 100% of the awards will vest on 18 June 2012.
Experian Co-investment Plans For awards granted under the Co-investment Plan and the North America Co-investment Plan in June 2009, the matching shares were subject to the achievement of growth in PBT of at least 3% per annum on average over the three-year performance period ending as at 31 March 2012.
The Committee tested this performance condition as at 31 March 2012 and determined that the average annual PBT growth over the period was 12% and as a result, 100% of the awards will vest on 18 June 2012.
Experian Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in June 2009 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ending as at 31 March 2012.
75% of an award would vest subject to the achievement of a growth in PBT target.
For PBT growth of at least 4% per annum on average 25% of the award would vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for PBT growth of at least 8% per annum on average.
The remaining 25% of an award would vest subject to the achievement of a TSR target with 25% of this part of an award vesting if the TSR of Experian was at least equal to that of the FTSE 100 Index, rising on a straight-line basis such that this part of the award would vest in full if Experians TSR exceeds that of the FTSE 100 Index by at least 25%.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 75 The Committee tested the performance condition as at 31 March 2012 and determined that the average annual PBT growth over the period was 12%, the Companys TSR had exceeded that of the FTSE 100 by 47.3% and that ROCE performance was satisfactory, as a result of which 100% of the award will vest on 18 June 2012.
The Committee is satisfied that the vesting of the long-term incentive plans described above is appropriate given the excellent performance of the Group over the last three years.
Performance graph The Committee has chosen to illustrate, against the FTSE 100 Index, the TSR for GUS plc until demerger and the TSR for Experian plc for the period since listing in October 2006 to March 2012.
This is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured as it is a widely used and understood index of which Experian is a constituent.
Value of 100 invested in GUS Experian Value of 100 invested in Experian and the FTSE 100 on 31 March 2004 and the FTSE 100 on 31 March 2007 300 250 250 200 200 150 100 150 50 100 0 50 March 04 March 05 March 06 March 07 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 07 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 Performance as GUS to 6 October 2006 Performance as Experian from 6 October 2006 FTSE 100 Index The above graphs show that, at 31 March 2012, a hypothetical 100 invested in GUS Experian would have generated a total return of 282 compared with a return of 173 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index on 31 March 2004, and a total return of 187 compared with a return of 110 if invested on 31 March 2007.
Shareholding guideline The Committee believes that it is important that executives build up a significant holding in Experian shares to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Therefore, the Committee has established guidelines under which the CEO should hold the equivalent of two times his base salary in Experian shares and other executive directors one times their base salary including invested shares held under the CIP.
Don Robert and Chris Callero significantly exceed these guidelines.
Policy on external appointments The Board recognises the value of external directorships in enabling the executive directors to broaden their experience and development.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, executive directors may therefore accept one FTSE 100 non-executive directorship, and retain any related fees.
During the period under review, Don Robert and Paul Brooks served as non-executive directors on the boards of Compass Group plc and Serco P77 Group plc respectively and the fees received in respect of these roles are set out in Note 4 to the annual remuneration table on page 77.
Meeting obligations under share-based incentives Obligations under Experians employee share plans may be met using either shares purchased in the market or, except for rolled-over awards under certain GUS schemes, newly issued shares.
The current policy is that, where possible, all awards will be satisfied by the purchase of shares, or from shares previously purchased, by the employee trusts or by shares held in treasury.
This policy will remain under regular review.
The rules of the Experian share plans are in line with the guidelines set out by the Association of British Insurers ABI regarding dilution.
Value of 100 invested in March 2004 Value of 100 invested in March 2007 76 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Remuneration of non-executive directors The Boards policy on the remuneration of non-executive directors is that: fees should reflect individual responsibilities and membership of Board committees: remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high calibre non-executives: and remuneration should be a combination of cash fees paid quarterly and Experian shares see below to help align the interests of nonexecutive directors with those of shareholders.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits-in-kind with the exception of the Chairman who receives private healthcare and the use of a company car.
The fees of the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 October 2011, taking into account market practice in FTSE 100 companies, anticipated number of days worked, tasks and responsibilities.
The current fees are shown in the table below and these will next be reviewed in October 2013.
Non-executive directors fees Non-executive directors fees from 1 October 2009 from 1 October 2011 Base fee 120,000 125,000 Plus additional fees for: Senior Independent Director to 15 September 2010 22,000 - 1 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director from 15 September 2010 - 80,000 2 Chairman of Audit Committee 35,000 35,000 2 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 27,000 27,000 Notes 1.
Sir Alan Rudge, Senior Independent Director, was appointed Deputy Chairman with effect from 15 September 2010.
As the level of his additional fee for the role was reviewed then, no further review was made in October 2011.
Fees for the Committee Chairmen were considered to remain competitive and were therefore unchanged in October 2011.
The Chairmans fee was reviewed by the Committee in early 2012 and increased by 25,000 to 375,000 with effect from 1 April 2012.
This was the first fee review since April 2010 and the next review will be in April 2014.
Experian requires its non-executive directors to build up a holding in the Companys shares equal to their annual fee.
One quarter of their net annual fee is used to purchase Experian shares each year until they reach this holding and such shares are included in the table entitled P82 Directors interests.
Any tax liability arising from these arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any Experian share plans.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment with no provision for any termination payment.
Each appointment is for a renewable three-year term, subject to election re-election by shareholders, but may be terminated by either party on one months written notice six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 77 The information set out in the remainder of this report has been subject to audit.
Annual remuneration The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of the individual directors for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Annual bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 March 2012.
Salary and Annual 1 fees bonus Benefits Total 2012 Total 2011 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman 2 Sir John Peace 350 24 374 404 3 Executive directors 4 Don Robert US$1,500 US$3,000 US$439 US$4,939 US$4,762 4 5 Paul Brooks 408 980 24 1,412 1,448 Chris Callero US$960 US$1,920 US$51 US$2,931 US$2,812 6 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 159 159 144 Roger Davis 150 150 153 Alan Jebson 194 194 185 Sir Alan Rudge 203 203 195 Judith Sprieser 159 159 118 David Tyler 123 123 132 Paul Walker 129 129 112 In line with the shareholding guidelines for non-executive directors described above the following shares were purchased on 30 June 2011.
The value, at date of purchase, shown below is included within the remuneration reported in the above table.
No of Value shares 000s Sir Alan Rudge 1,777 14 Notes 1.
Benefits to executive directors include life insurance, private healthcare, company car and fuel allowance where applicable.
Don Robert also received an annual accommodation allowance of 250,000 during the year.
As a result, additional expenses are not paid in respect of hotels or subsistence while he is in London.
Sir John Peace is not eligible for a performance bonus, pension contributions or long-term incentive awards but continues to receive a company car benefit and private healthcare.
Experian plc pays directors fees to the executive directors in respect of their services as directors of Experian plc.
These fees were 120,000 per annum to 30 September 2011 and 125,000 per annum from 1 October 2011.
Such fees form part of, and are not additional to, the remuneration set out in the table.
Don Robert served as a non-executive director of Compass Group plc during the period under review, for which he received a fee of 81,000 2011: 75,500.
Paul Brooks served as a non-executive director of Serco Group plc and during the period under review he received a fee of 46,667 2011: 8,333 in respect of this appointment.
The salary figure in the above table is that earned to 31 January 2012 and the annual bonus is that for the full year ended 31 March 2012.
Non-executive directors receive an additional fee of 6,000 per trip to attend Board meetings where such attendance involves inter-continental travel from their home location.
78 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Share options Details of options granted to directors under the Experian Share Option Plan and the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes are set out in the table below.
Options granted in 2006 or earlier were originally granted under the GUS Executive Share Option Schemes and were exchanged for equivalent options over Experian plc shares on demerger.
Options granted to Chris Callero in 2006 were granted under The GUS plc North America Stock Option Plan.
Vesting of these options was not subject to performance conditions.
The 2005 and 2006 grants to Don Robert and Paul Brooks were made under the GUS Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options vested subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were met in full.
Options were granted to David Tyler in respect of his role as an executive director of GUS plc.
On demerger, he was eligible to exchange his options for equivalent options over Experian shares on the same basis as other participants.
These options were exercised during the year.
The options granted in June 2009 are subject to the achievement of a growth in benchmark earnings per share EPS target measured over a three-year performance period that ended on 31 March 2012.
25% of an option will vest if growth in EPS is at least 4% per annum on average.
Vesting increases on a straightline basis such that the option will be fully exercisable if growth in EPS over the performance period is at least 8% per annum on average.
Vesting is also subject to satisfactory ROCE.
The Companys EPS growth was such that 100% of the awards will vest on 18 June 2012.
Paul Brooks died on 6 January 2012 and in line with the rules of the Share Option Plan unvested options vested at that date.
All options will remain exercisable for a further 12 months.
The market price of Experian plc shares at 31 March 2012 was 975p: the highest and lowest prices during the financial year then ended were 996p and 665p respectively.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 79 GUS and Experian Co-investment Plans and Experian Reinvestment Plans Details of awards made to directors under the GUS and Experian Co-investment Plans and the Experian Reinvestment Plans are set out in the table below.
In line with the rules of the Experian Co-investment Plan, invested shares for Paul Brooks from 2009 onwards were purchased with his bonus net of tax.
In line with the rules of the Experian North America Co-investment Plan, invested shares for Don Robert and Chris Callero were calculated with reference to their gross bonus.
The matching share awards are based on the gross value of the bonus deferred.
Awards to directors under the 2004 and 2005 cycles of the GUS North America Co-investment Plan were reinvested in awards under the Experian North America Reinvestment Plan at demerger.
Release of matching shares under the Reinvestment Plan was subject to the retention of reinvested shares, continued employment and a performance condition with a performance period which ended on 31 March 2009.
92% of the shares subject to the PBT performance condition vested and in accordance with the rules, have been released in annual tranches after the vesting date.
The last tranche was released on 11 October 2011 when the Experian share price was 740.0p.
Dividend equivalents were paid to Paul Brooks, Chris Callero, and Don Robert on their vested shares.
No further awards will be made under the Reinvestment Plan.
Awards made in 2009 were made under the Experian Co-investment Plan to Paul Brooks at the share price at which invested shares were purchased and under the Experian North America Co-investment Plan to Chris Callero and Don Robert based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant.
Release of matching shares under these plans is subject to the retention of invested shares, continued employment and the achievement of growth in PBT of at least 3% per annum on average over the three-year performance period that ended on 31 March 2012.
The Companys performance was such that 100% of the awards will vest on 18 June 2012.
Awards made in 2010 were made under the Experian Co-investment Plan to Paul Brooks at the share price at which invested shares were purchased and the Experian North America Co-investment Plan to Chris Callero and Don Robert based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant.
Release of matching shares under these plans is subject to the achievement of performance conditions as detailed in the section entitled CIP performance metrics on page 72, the retention of invested shares and continued employment.
Awards made in 2011 were made under the Experian Co-investment Plan to Paul Brooks at the share price at which invested shares were purchased and under the Experian North America Co-investment Plan to Chris Callero and Don Robert based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant.
Paul Brooks died on 6 January 2012 and, in line with the rules of the Experian Co-investment Plan, invested shares were released on that date and matching shares vested subject to pro-rating for time.
80 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued Performance Share Plan Details of awards made to directors under the PSP are set out in the table below.
Awards made in October 2006 were subject to performance conditions with a performance period which ended in October 2009.
As detailed in the 2010 report, the outcome of these performance conditions was such that 80.7% of these awards vested.
The vesting date was 11 October 2011 when the Experian share price was 740.0p.
The awards granted in June 2009 are subject to performance conditions measured over the three years ending on 31 March 2012.
75% of an award will vest subject to the achievement of a growth in PBT target: 25% of this part of an award will vest if growth in PBT is at least 4% per annum on average.
Vesting increases on a straight-line basis such that this part of the award will vest in full if growth in PBT is at least 8% per annum on average.
25% of an award will vest subject to the achievement of a TSR target: 25% of this part of an award will vest if the TSR of Experian is at least equal to that of the FTSE 100 Index.
Vesting increases on a straight-line basis such that this part of the award will vest in full if Experians TSR exceeds that of the FTSE 100 Index by at least 25%.
Vesting of these awards is also subject to satisfactory ROCE performance.
The performance periods in respect of the awards made in June 2010 and June 2011 are 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2013 and 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014 respectively.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are detailed in the section entitled PSP performance metrics on page 73.
Paul Brooks died on 6 January 2012 and, in line with the rules of the Performance Share Plan, outstanding awards vested on that date and were pro-rated for time.
Executive directors pension arrangements Don Robert is provided with benefits through a Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan SERP which is a defined benefit arrangement in the US.
The figures below are in respect of his SERP entitlement.
He is also entitled to participate in the US defined contribution arrangement 401k Plan.
The employer contributions to this arrangement during the year were nil 2011: nil.
Paul Brooks was a member of the registered Experian UK defined benefit pension scheme until his death on 6 January 2012.
His benefits within the scheme were restricted by an earnings cap with benefits in excess of this cap provided for through the Experian Limited Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme SURBS.
The closing figures in the table below in respect of Paul are given at date of death rather than as at 31 March 2012.
Chris Callero participated in the US defined contribution arrangement 401k Plan during the year and the employer contributions to this arrangement were US$7,104 2011: $6,882.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 81 The directors pension entitlements in respect of benefits from registered and non-registered defined benefit schemes and arrangements are detailed in the table below.
Change in transfer Additional Transfer value Closing accrued Opening accrued Closing transfer Opening transfer value less pension earned of the increase pension pension value value directors net of inflation less directors per annum per annum contributions per annum contributions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s Don Robert 543 484 11,749 8,465 3,284 34 742 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Paul Brooks 201 186 4,720 4,065 647 15 340 Four former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc, received unfunded pensions from the Company during the year.
Three of the former directors are paid under the SURBS.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 473,153 2011: 508,547.
Notes: Columns 1 and 2 represent the deferred pension to which the director would have been entitled had he left the Group at 31 March 2012 or date of death in the case of Paul Brooks and 31 March 2011 respectively.
Following Paul's death, benefits were paid to his widow in line with the rules of the Experian Pension Scheme and the Experian Limited SURBS arrangement.
Column 3 is the transfer value of the pension in column 1 calculated as at 31 March 2012 or date of death in the case of Paul based on factors supplied by the actuary of the relevant Group pension scheme in accordance with version 8.1 of the UK actuarial guidance note GN11.
Column 4 is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 March 2011 on the assumption that the director left service at that date.
Column 5 is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year net of contributions by the director.
The change in transfer value for Paul includes the change due to the implementation of a new transfer value basis by the Trustee of the Experian Pension Scheme with effect from 1 November 2011.
Column 6 is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the end of the period, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column 7 represents the transfer value of the pension in column 6.
The disclosures in columns 1 to 5 are equivalent to those required by the large and medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and those in columns 6 and 7 are those required by the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
Executive directors service contracts Don Robert has a service agreement with Experian Services Corporation ESC dated 7 August 2006.
This provides that, if his employment is terminated by ESC without cause, he is entitled to the following severance payments: continued payment of monthly salary for 12 months from the termination date: 12 months participation in welfare benefit plans in which he participated during his employment: and an annual bonus based on 100% achievement of objectives payable in equal monthly instalments for 12 months.
The same amounts are payable by ESC if Don Robert terminates the contract: i following material breach by ESC: or ii for Good Reason following a change of control of ESC.
Good Reason means, during the six month period following a change of control, a material and substantial adverse reduction or change in Don Roberts position.
These terms are in line with US practice.
Don Roberts service agreement also provides for the following payments to be made if the agreement terminates in the event of his death in addition to payments due but unpaid before death : a pro rata annual bonus for the bonus year to the termination date based on ESCs performance in that bonus year: and a lump sum equal to 12 months base salary to be paid no later than 90 days after the date of death.
If the employment is terminated due to Don Roberts disability, he is entitled to the bonus as described immediately above in addition to payments due but unpaid before the termination.
Any deferred compensation obligations will be governed in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
This is consistent with US employment practice.
Paul Brooks was employed under a service agreement dated 2 April 2007.
Following his death, his emoluments were paid to the end of January 2012.
These emoluments are set out in the relevant tables contained within this report.
Chris Callero has a service agreement, dated 11 June 2009, with ESC which is terminable by 12 months notice either from ESC or from Chris Callero.
Brian Cassin has a service contract, dated 29 February 2012, with Experian Limited which is terminable by 12 months notice from Experian Limited and by 6 months notice from Brian Cassin.
Other than as described above, the service contract of each of the executive directors does not provide for any benefits on the termination of employment.
Experians policy on service contracts for new executive directors is to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines and best practice.
82 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Report on directors remuneration continued UK Corporate Governance Code The constitution and operation of the Committee are in accordance with the principles of good governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Directors interests The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Share options granted to directors, awards under the PSP and the contingent interests in matching shares under the Co-investment Plans are shown in the relevant tables.
The directors have no interests in the debentures of the Group or in any shares or debentures of the Groups subsidiaries.
Shares held in Experian plc at 1 31 March 2012 Chairman Sir John Peace 1,483,340 Executive directors 2 Don Robert 1,201,456 2 Chris Callero 539,456 Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 20,000 Roger Davis 60,000 Alan Jebson 42,597 Sir Alan Rudge 24,003 Judith Sprieser 14,402 David Tyler 85,713 Paul Walker 15,000 Notes 1.
For regulatory purposes, as at 9 May 2012, there had been no changes in the above interests.
The number of Experian shares for Don Robert and Chris Callero reflects 839,665 and 539,456 shares respectively awarded to them under the Experian North America Co-investment Plan in lieu of annual bonus, as shown in the table which details these plans, in addition to their personal beneficial shareholding.
Don Robert and Chris Callero have an unconditional right to receive these Experian shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
These shares do not carry dividend or voting rights prior to receipt.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 9 May 2012
