Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors remuneration report Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
Consistent with previous years, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the auditor to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in its opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with s421 of the Companies Act 2006 together with the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The Committee is aware of pending changes to remuneration reporting legislation as a result of proposals put forward by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills.
The Committee will monitor the progress of these proposals and once finalised will consider the impact on the remuneration policy and reporting disclosure changes required.
In the meantime, the Committee continues to report the remuneration policy against current regulations.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker, Elizabeth Lake and, since October 2012, Mark Foster, with the Chairman of the Committee being Ron Mackintosh.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than possibly as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share incentive plans, for the Chairman, executive directors and senior management.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
During the year the Committee met to discuss topics including: 0$!
During the year, the Committee took independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS, an Aon plc company.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS provided advice on general remuneration matters.
NBS do not provide any other services to the Company.
Aon plc provide other services to the Company, namely insurance broking and pensions administration and consultancy, but the Committee is comfortable that this in no way creates a conflict of interest.
The Chairman and executive directors may attend committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Remuneration philosophy The Groups remuneration philosophy is that a significant proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on the financial performance of the Group.
As noted in the 2011 Annual Report, in 2012 the Committee reviewed the balance between salaries and bonuses, and compared the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management with other companies in the IT sector and other quoted companies with similar market capitalisation.
The result of the review is that salaries now form a larger proportion of the overall remuneration package than has historically been the case, with a corresponding reduction in the prominence of the annual bonus.
The Committee believes the changes continue to promote the long-term success of the Group.
The remuneration philosophy requires long-term as well as short-term measurements for delivery, so as to avoid excessive short-term risk taking and to encourage consistent performance over multiple years.
When considering the measurements for delivery, the Committee also takes into account corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues.
The Committee regularly reviews the bonus and share incentive plans to ensure they support the business strategy and the remuneration philosophy.
Part of this review ensures that the performance metrics, levels of awards and eligible participants remain appropriate.
The Committee considers how each element of the overall remuneration may negatively or positively influence an employees attitude towards promoting the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee reviews the performance of the individual concerned and takes account of comparative market data from other companies in the IT sector and other quoted companies with a similar market capitalisation.
The Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance and at a similar level to directors and senior managers in comparable companies at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver value to shareholders.
This approach has been demonstrated to be successful when viewed in relation to the Groups overall consistent performance.
The package of the executive directors and senior managers is reviewed on a regular basis and will generally contain the following elements: a base salary, performance-related bonus payments, limited other benefits and share-based incentives.
The aim is that these elements combine to provide a balance over the short, medium and longer term for rewarding successful and consistent performance.
The Group has an experienced and highly skilled workforce, operating across a number of geographical territories.
Salaries are set locally to meet these needs.
In the year staff numbers increased by 3% and over the last three years have increased by 21%.
In deciding on the levels of remuneration for directors and senior managers, the comparative pay and employment conditions of these employees across the Group are taken into account.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the level of salary increases across the workforce when deciding upon any increases in remuneration for the directors and senior management.
The Groups remuneration policy is aligned with Group strategy in that it is important to the Group to deliver value and good growth for shareholders whilst managing the extent of caution and risk.
For this reason, executive directors salaries have been set at levels more closely aligned to other companies in the IT sector and other quoted companies with similar market capitalisation but with long-term incentive plans and bonuses, focused on performance, continuing to constitute a significant percentage of the remuneration package.
Targets under long-term incentive plans are based on growth in earnings per share, growth in total shareholder return and on other business development goals.
Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Element of package Strategic purpose Base salary To provide a reasonable level of basic pay in accordance with an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role.
To provide the executive with basic and cost effective benefits consistent with Benefits employees in the country in which they are based.
Annual bonus To provide an incentive payable on the achievement of short-term measurable financial targets directly linked to the Groups operating profit.
The use of operating profit is linked to the Groups strategic objective for controlled growth through the development of further new products and services.
Long-term incentive plans To incentivise and reward for long-term, sustained financial performance of the Group and the shareholder value this creates.
The primary targets have been based on sustained growth in earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Basic salary Each executive directors basic salary is reviewed annually taking into consideration the fact that it needs to be at a reasonable level so as to be compatible with the bonus and is based on business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Companys remuneration advisers.
In 2012 the executive directors remuneration package was rebalanced to provide more reliance on fixed pay with salaries increased and the annual bonuses reduced.
The Committee believes that this approach is better aligned to market practice, has the effect of bringing the executive directors remuneration package into line with that already adopted for the wider senior management team and will assist with the recruitment and retention of the high quality individuals required to drive the continued success of the Company.
It should also be noted that the executive directors do not participate in any Group pension arrangements, only receive a limited benefits provision, and share incentives are granted as a fixed number of shares and therefore an increase in salary has no ratchet effect on any other element of remuneration other than the maximum level of annual bonus which has been reduced accordingly.
The total remuneration packages for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass during 2012 were reduced by 4% and 2%, respectively, when compared to 2011.
Bonus A significant focus of remuneration for executive directors is rewarding for successful performance.
The first element of this is the annual bonus.
Both executive directors are entitled to a cash bonus based on the Groups operating profit as presented to the Operating Board excluding any items that the Committee considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
The terms of the bonus are reviewed if there is a material acquisition in any period and it is subject to an upper limit of 100% of base salary.
The upper limit represents a significant reduction from the previous maximum limits of 400% of base salary and 150% of base salary for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass respectively, which follows the rebalancing of the remuneration package as referred to above.
This year it was calculated by using a flat percentage of the adjusted operating profit of the Group above a threshold for the year.
If the threshold is not achieved, no bonus will be payable.
Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued The threshold and flat percentage are rigorously reviewed each year to ensure that they deliver short-term pay that is competitive but only if the Group achieves a reasonable level of operating profit for the year.
In the case of Andy Malpass, this represents a change to the calculation methodology used in previous years.
The Committee holds the view that having the same calculation methodology for both executive directors provides greater transparency, helps foster a collegiate senior management team and promotes and rewards consistent behaviours.
It had been previously suggested that in order to maintain his independence as Finance Director, his cash bonus should not be linked directly to the Groups operating profit.
However the Committee considers that sufficient control systems, including the oversight by the Audit Committee, as well as the scale of the Groups business now being sufficiently large mean that any risk to the independence of the Finance Director is no longer material.
Share-based incentives Share-based incentives are an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with other forms of remuneration.
Share-based incentives are also key to aligning long-term directors remuneration with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The share incentive plans that the directors participate in reward them for consistent performance in the long-term.
The details of these plans are provided further down in this Directors Remuneration Report.
In consideration of the general constraint on total remuneration package increases during 2012 due to market conditions and in order to ensure that the treatment of the Groups employees remains aligned with the executive directors, no share-based incentives were awarded to the executive directors during 2012.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the pertinence of awards for 2013.
Other benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Benefits provided include the provision of medical insurance and life assurance.
Directors do not participate in the Group defined contribution pension scheme nor do they receive any other pension provision from the Group.
Minimum shareholding guideline The guidelines have been structured to encourage executive directors to acquire and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company.
For both executive directors this is a minimum value equal to 100% of salary, which, following the rebalancing of the executive directors remuneration packages, represents a significantly higher value than in previous years.
Their shareholdings have been greater than the guideline throughout 2012.
Service contracts The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass are for an indefinite term providing for 12 months notice by either party.
These contracts were entered into on 2nd June 1997, amended on 3rd October 2003 and as from 1st January 2012.
In the event of termination the executive director will receive his salary, any bonus to which the executive director is eligible for the period up to and including the date of termination and any benefits in lieu of any required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
The director may also receive an additional bonus or other amount as the Company in its absolute discretion thinks appropriate until the expiry of what would have been that executive directors notice period.
Payments during the notice period are payable in equal monthly instalments subject to the executive director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment, except that any bonus shall be payable at such time as that bonus would otherwise have been payable.
Fidessa group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and is for an indefinite term providing for six months notice by either party.
Philip Hardaker signed a new letter of appointment during 2011 for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Ron Mackintosh signed a new letter of appointment during 2010 for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Elizabeth Lake signed a new letter of appointment during 2011 providing for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Mark Foster signed a letter of appointment during 2012 for a term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
The executive directors do not hold any external non-executive positions.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the non-executive directors fees.
The non-executive directors are not involved in decisions about their own remuneration.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-related remuneration or participation in share-based incentives.
Neither the Chairmans nor the non-executive directors fees were increased during 2012.
Interests in contracts During the year no director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than the directors deeds of indemnity with the Company.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared to a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends re-invested on the ex-dividend date over the period of the graph.
The Board believes that the techMARK All-Share Index, of which Fidessa group plc is a constituent, provides the best benchmark for comparison.
The Company share price and the techMARK All-Share Index are both set to 100 at the start of the five year period.
Total shareholder 350 return performance 300 200 150 100 50 Fidessa 0 techMARK All-Share Jan 08 July 08 Jan 09 July 09 Jan 10 July 10 Jan 11 July 11 Jan 12 July 12 Dec 12 Source: Fidessa Fidessa group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Audited information Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of the directors are set out below: Base fees & salaries Benets Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2012 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 145 1 146 Executive Chris Aspinwall 553 1 331 885 Andy Malpass 302 2 147 451 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 49 49 Philip Hardaker 49 49 Elizabeth Lake 43 43 Mark Foster 8 8 Total 1,149 4 478 1,631 Base fees & salaries Benets Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2011 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 145 1 146 Executive Chris Aspinwall 215 1 704 920 Andy Malpass 215 1 245 461 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 49 49 Philip Hardaker 49 49 Elizabeth Lake 43 43 Total 716 3 949 1,668 Fidessa group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: 31st December 31st December 2012 2011 Number Number John Hamer 87,722 51,507 Chris Aspinwall 109,451 92,153 Andy Malpass 84,611 81,546 Ron Mackintosh 3,000 6,000 Philip Hardaker 2,000 2,000 Elizabeth Lake Mark Foster Between 31st December 2012 and the date of this report the interests of John Hamer, Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass have each increased by eight shares as a result of a regular monthly purchase by the SIP.
Share incentives The Company has share incentive plans whereby employees of the Group are granted awards over ordinary shares in the Company subject to the vesting of their awards in accordance with the terms of each plan.
The Performance Share Plan PSP, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP and Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP were approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Each plan was approved by 99% of the votes cast and no votes were withheld.
The MSPP and, in the UK, the award of matching shares under the SIP were implemented in 2012 and are relevant to the majority of employees.
The first award under the DABP was made in 2012 and usage of this plan is expected to expand.
No awards were granted under the PSP during 2012.
These plans replace the Company Share Option Plan 2006 CSOP, Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP and Share Bonus Plan SBP from which no awards have been made since 2010 and no further awards will be made.
The total permitted dilution across the PSP, DABP, MSPP and SIP is 10% in the 10 years commencing 6th May 2011 and 7% in the first five years of operation.
In addition, the potential dilution from awards granted in a calendar year cannot exceed 1.6% of the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 31st December 2012 the maximum potential dilution from awards granted across these plans to date is 0.2%.
The total permitted dilution under the CSOP was 8% during the life of the plan: as at 31st December 2012 the maximum potential dilution is 3.8%, with the outstanding share options element of this representing 2.7% of the issued share capital.
The total permitted dilution under the EGRIP was 6% during the life of the plan: as at 31st December 2012 the maximum potential dilution is 3.9%, with the outstanding share options element of this representing 2.5% of the issued share capital.
The SBP only involved market purchase shares and therefore did not incur any dilution.
In respect of the 2009 SBP awards, the performance conditions were not fully satisfied and therefore 81.25% of the matching shares vested.
The exact level of the vesting of the 2010 SBP awards cannot yet be determined although the expectation is that only a portion of the matching shares will vest.
The 2007 awards under the EGRIP failed to vest.
It is too early to estimate the potential vesting of other grants made under the EGRIP.
Share plans currently in use Performance Share Plan PSP This is structured as an annual grant of conditional shares with a zero exercise price.
The vesting period is four years from the date of grant.
The awards vest based on the satisfaction of an earnings per share growth performance condition, which requires the cumulative four year adjusted basic earnings per share to be greater than the equivalent total achieved by applying the annual growth rates in the table below to the base earnings per share year preceding date of grant.
At the lower threshold, 25% of an award vests with a straight-line scale to 100% vesting at the higher threshold.
Fidessa group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Compound annual growth in EPS % of award vesting Less than 8% 0% 8% 25% Between 8% and 15% Between 25% and 100% Greater than 15% 100% The awards have to be called for by an employee normally within three years of vesting thereby giving a maximum seven years life from grant.
The shares can be satisfied by either new issue or market purchases.
A claw-back provision applies to the plan for reasons of financial misstatement.
The duration of the plan is 10 years from approval at the 2011 Annual General Meeting with a review taking place after five years.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP Under this plan, participants receive a proportion of their annual bonus in the form of deferred shares instead of cash.
The shares vest to the employee after three years subject to continued employment with the Group through the period.
Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP The MSPP follows principles similar to the UK tax approved SIP and applies to the majority of employees across multiple countries.
The SIP continues to operate and the matching element of the SIP has applied since early 2012.
The MSPP operates alongside the SIP in the UK with the MSPP being used for any higher levels of monthly purchase.
Employees including executive directors are able to purchase up to a set value of shares each month into a trust.
Trust purchases of shares take place once a month and after three years an equal number of matching free shares are applied so long as there is continued employment throughout.
There is no other performance criteria attached to any of the matching shares.
Previous share plans Company Performance Related Share Option Plan This plan was introduced in 1997 and the last grant was made in 2005.
The vesting of the market price share options granted under this plan was conditional on continued employment of three and four years after the grant of the option.
Company Share Option Plan 2006 CSOP This plan was introduced in 2006 and the last grant was made in 2010.
Market price share options granted under this plan are subject to a performance condition that requires the cumulative four year adjusted diluted earnings per share to be greater than the equivalent total achieved by applying an annual growth rate of 5% to the adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year preceding grant.
Fidessa group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Share Bonus Plan SBP The plan was introduced in 2003 and the last award under it was made in 2010.
An award provided that, should a participant purchase ordinary shares in the Company up to the value of their award, then they had the opportunity to receive a share bonus comprising free matching shares subject to certain performance conditions being satisfied.
The maximum number of free matching shares was equal to the number of shares purchased by the participant.
There were four performance conditions, each providing for up to 25% of the bonus to vest: 0$!
RPI plus 3% and RPI plus 6% results in between 6.25% and 25% of the bonus vesting: 0$!
between 3% and 9% results in between 6.25% and 25% of the bonus vesting: and 0$!
0% %, 0 purchased the shares relating to a particular award results in 25% of the bonus vesting.
This is an overriding performance condition and must be satisfied in order for any of the other performance conditions to be satisfied.
Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP The plan was introduced in 2006 and the last award under it was made in 2010.
An EGRIP award represented a right to acquire shares in the Company at nominal value subject to the performance conditions being satisfied.
The first performance condition required the average Company share price plus dividends reinvested over the five year period commencing on the award date to be greater than the average derived if the share price was to increase on a uniform basis of 20% per annum compound growth over the same five year period.
The starting share price was the average share price plus dividends reinvested for the 12 months prior to the award date.
The second performance condition required the Companys cumulative adjusted diluted earnings per share over the five years commencing with the award year to be greater than the equivalent total achieved over a five year period by applying a growth rate of 10% per annum to the adjusted diluted earnings per share achieved in the year prior to the award.
The third performance condition required the Companys annualised total shareholder return over the five year period commencing on the award date to be greater than the annualised equivalent achieved by the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index, during the same five year period, plus 5%.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 8th February 2013 and signed on its behalf by Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
