com Remuneration Report Nol Harwerth, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 days only, and from 31 October 2012 in intended participation in the new Alent DEAR SHAREHOLDER respect of the three new Non-executive Share Plan a long-term incentive share plan Directors who were not on the Cookson for Executive Directors and other selected INTRODUCTION board, with no historical comparisons.
executives and retirement and other I am writing to you as the first Chairman This report includes that data as we are benets.
The Demerger, on the terms set of the Remuneration Committee of Alent required to do.
Shareholders should out in the Alent Prospectus which contained plc Alent, which began trading on the also be mindful of the fact that Alents these details a copy of which can be found London Stock Exchange on 19 December Remuneration Committee held no formal on the Companys website, together with 2012. meetings in 2012, and its first formal the Alent Share Plan which was put as a meeting was in January 2013. separate resolution to be voted on, were As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, both approved by Cookson shareholders.
Alent was formed following the demerger In terms of the Companys overall of Cookson Group plc Cookson.
Alents remuneration policy for 2013, the The Company is committed to open and shares were admitted to the premium listing remuneration structure for Executive transparent dialogue with its shareholders on segment of the Ofcial List and to trading on Directors and other senior managers aims to: remuneration as well as other governance the London Stock Exchanges main market matters.
As a matter of course the for listed securities on 19 December 2012.
{ be sufciently competitive to attract Remuneration Committee will continue to Consequently, Alent is now a separately and retain high calibre and experienced consult with key institutional shareholders listed leading global supplier of advanced executives, while reecting the and various representative bodies about surface treatment, plating chemicals and international complexity of the the pay and incentive arrangements of the electronics assembly materials.
Companys business and operations: Companys Executive Directors.
Indeed, during the Demerger process, the views of { strongly support the Companys This report covers: Cooksons largest shareholders were sought strategy and long-term corporate on a number of matters, including in relation success, having due regard to { the remit and composition of the to the then proposed remuneration policy, environmental, social and governance Remuneration Committee: structure and positioning of Alent, while issues within the Companys overall risk details of payments and outstanding { earlier this year I met with a number of Alents prole: awards entitlements that were made to shareholders to begin the dialogue process align managements interests with those { Executive Directors during 2012 under and answer shareholders questions.
The of shareholders: and the Cookson Executive Director views of these shareholders were, on the remuneration arrangements: and foster a high performance culture, with { whole, very supportive and we look forward a substantial portion of remuneration details of the current and forward to a continuing dialogue on both the new { being performance linked.
looking Alent remuneration policy and Alent business, and what we need to do in its proposed implementation, together respect of overall remuneration practices for with the Executive Director The Company aims to provide median total our Executive Directors and the Company as a whole.
I hope you will be able to support remuneration arrangements and policy remuneration levels for target performance the Committees report at this years Annual for 2013. and up to upper quartile total remuneration General Meeting.
This will be judged against FTSE 250 companies Due to Alent being separately listed and relevant international sector-specic only for the last 13 days of 2012, from Yours sincerely, companies to reach a rounded judgement.
19 December to 31 December being Nol Harwerth The Alent Prospectus disclosed the the period to which this report formally Chairman, Remuneration Committee remuneration of the Executive Directors relates, we are required to disclose pay, 28 March 2013 of Alent at the time of the demerger, annual incentive and other data only in comprising base salary, annual incentive, respect of Alent, which is generally for the 56 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The primary role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are: setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: { recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management { below Board level: and { overseeing the operation of any executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference is available on the Companys website www.
com COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Independent Non-executive Directors, namely Dr Emma Fitzgerald, Jan Oosterveld, Mark Williamson and Nol Harwerth, who also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Each of the members of the Remuneration Committee was appointed as a Director of the Company on 31 October 2012 and is independent.
The Company Secretary acts as Committee Secretary.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and any other Directors are invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate but do not participate in discussions of their own remuneration.
ADVICE PROVIDED TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration levels, the Remuneration Committee is advised by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, by the external advisers Towers Watson Towers, and the law rm Clifford Chance LLP CC.
Towers has been appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practices and trends, and guidance on the implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans.
Towers has also provided the Remuneration Committee with remuneration benchmarking data for certain executives.
CC provides advice on the drafting and operation of the Alent Share Plan and other executive or employee share arrangements operated by the Company from time to time.
Towers is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
Aon Hewitt the parent company of NewBridgeStreet NBS, a rm of remuneration consultants provides administration and actuarial services in relation to the Companys pension plans and NBS provides share award valuation advice to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the provision of any of these services to the Company compromises the independence or integrity of the advice that it receives from Towers, Aon Hewitt and CC.
ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Given that the Demerger did not become effective until 19 December 2012, the Remuneration Committee did not meet during the period under review.
However, the Remuneration Committee expects to meet at least three times in 2013 to consider such matters as: { salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and senior management: { reviewing achievement against the performance targets, and approving payouts, in respect of the annual incentive arrangements: setting performance targets and approving the structure of the annual incentive arrangements: { considering the Companys performance against the performance conditions applicable to the Cookson awards rolled over into { awards over Alent shares, and authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant: { setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Alent Share Plan: { receiving feedback on the Remuneration Committee Chairmans meetings with key institutional shareholders regarding the Companys remuneration policy and practice, and, in the light of this, advice received from the external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, discussing the Companys approach to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made: { reviewing the Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference, and recommending any amendments to the Board for approval: and reviewing and approving the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report.
{ STOCK CODE: ALNT 57 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ANNUAL INCENTIVE AND LONG TERM INCENTIVE 2012 ENTITLEMENTS PURSUANT TO PRE-DEMERGER REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS OPERATED BY COOKSON ANNUAL INCENTIVES COOKSON For the financial year 2012, the Executive Directors annual incentives were based on Cookson Group adjusted operating profit performance, with an adjustment based on Cooksons working capital performance to focus greater attention on cash ow performance.
The effect of the latter was to reduce the level of any payout that the Executive Directors could achieve by up to 10% if specified working capital targets were not attained.
The adjuster could increase the level of payout by up to 10%, but not above the usual plan maximum.
Mr Butterworths annual incentive was assessed solely against this criterion, whilst half of Mr Corbetts annual incentive was assessed against this criterion and the remainder was based upon the divisional trading profit of the then Performance Materials division adjusted for performance against a key operating cash ow target.
Their maximum incentive potential was 100% of salary.
For 2012, the relevant performance resulted in the following annual incentive payments for Messrs Corbett Chief Executive and Butterworth Interim Finance Director, who were both Directors during the period: Incentive Target Achieved Paid Name Measure Weighting Performance % of salary % of salary Steve Corbett Group Adjusted earnings 50% 207.1m 0% 0% Steve Corbett Performance Materials Trading Profit 50% 109.2m 8.7% 8.7% Mike Butterworth Group Adjusted earnings 100% 207.1m 0% 0% Adjusted earnings and profits An Annual Incentive equivalent to 8.7% of base salary will therefore be paid to Mr Corbett in respect of 2012.
This annual payment is reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 67.
Mr Butterworth was not eligible for an annual incentive.
LONG TERM INCENTIVES COOKSON The demerger did not result in early vesting of awards held by Executive Directors under the Cookson Long Term Incentive Plan Cookson LTIP.
2010 Cookson LTIP Award In the case of the awards made to Executive Directors in 2010 under the Cookson LTIP where the performance period was due to end on 31 December 2012, the period was shortened very slightly, to end immediately before the Demerger Effective Time, so that performance was measured purely in relation to Cooksons performance being relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance and growth in headline EPS 50% each.
These awards are due to vest on 7 April 2013 and were rolled over to become awards over a combination of Alent and Vesuvius plc shares in the same combination that applied to Cookson shareholders under the terms of the Demerger.
This reects the fact that these awards relate to historic Cookson performance and not to the future performance of Alent or Vesuvius.
The shortened performance period mentioned above for 2010 awards ended on 18 December 2012.
Cooksons TSR performance during this three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and it was determined that Cooksons performance was between the median and the upper quintile, a level which would result in a 17.7% out of a maximum 50% vesting.
In addition, Cooksons annual compound headline EPS growth was assessed for the period as being over 10% above RPI, a level which would result in 50% out of a maximum 50% vesting.
Prior to the vesting of any award, as an additional hurdle, vesting must be justied by the underlying financial performance of Cookson over the performance period.
It has been concluded that the vesting of the 2010 Cookson LTIP awards is justied by the underlying financial performance of Cookson.
Accordingly, 67.7% of the Cookson 2010 LTIP awards will vest on 7 April 2013.
2011 and 2012 Cookson LTIP Awards In the case of the grants made to Executive Directors in 2011 and 2012 under the Cookson LTIP, these awards over Cookson shares were rolled over to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value.
Performance will still be measured over a three-year period, but by reference to Cookson performance up to the Demerger Effective Time and by reference to Alent performance thereafter to the end of the period.
The awards continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing Cookson LTIP, save that the relevant company and relevant remuneration committee is Alent instead of Cookson.
58 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 The vesting of the awards, when originally granted, was based on Cooksons performance against specified performance conditions measured over a three-year period.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded was based upon Cooksons three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250, excluding Investment Trusts, and 50% on EPS growth over the three-year period.
The two measures operated independently.
The new Alent targets for measuring performance for the 2011 and 2012 Cookson LTIP awards, following the Demerger, is now as follows: As regards the EPS target, the currently disclosed Cookson headline EPS threshold and maximum vesting targets for the final year of the relevant three-year performance period have been split between Alent and Vesuvius by reference to their respective trading profit contributions to Cooksons total 2012 trading profit such that the new Alent and Vesuvius targets aggregate to the currently disclosed Cookson targets.
The respective Alent adjusted EPS values as reported for the final year of the three-year performance period will then be compared with these new threshold and maximum targets to determine the vesting outcome.
Vesting of 50% of Perfomance and Matching Share Awards under the 2011 LTIP awards is based on adjusted EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio Adjusted EPS for 2013 financial year Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Less than 33.4 pence 0% 0 33.4 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1 40.1 pence 50% 1.125 : 1 Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Between 33.4 pence and 40.1 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Vesting of 50% of Perfomance and Matching Share Awards under the 2012 LTIP awards is based on adjusted EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares Matching Shares Vesting Ratio Adjusted EPS for 2014 financial year Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Less than 34.6 pence 0% 0 34.6 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1 42.7 pence 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 34.6 pence and 42.7 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 As regards the TSR target, Cooksons TSR growth from the start of the relevant three-year performance period up to the time of the Demerger will be determined and added to the TSR growth of Alent from the Demerger date to the end of the three-year performance period.
This aggregate TSR growth will then be ranked against the TSR of the relevant comparator group and the resulting vesting outcome will be calculated against the TSR performance schedule in the Cookson LTIP.
Cookson Deferred Bonus Share Plan Cookson DBSP No Executive Directors of Alent hold any Cookson DBSP awards.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2013 The remuneration policy of the Company aims to establish a remuneration structure for Executive Directors and other senior managers which: is sufciently competitive to attract and retain high calibre and experienced executives, while reecting the international complexity { of the Companys business and operations: { strongly supports the Companys strategy and long-term corporate success, having due regard to environmental, social and governance issues within the Companys overall risk prole: { aligns managements interests with those of shareholders: and fosters a high performance culture, with a substantial portion of remuneration being performance linked.
{ In formulating remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the Companys operations and takes into consideration the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The Remuneration STOCK CODE: ALNT 59 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other Company employees when determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases.
Given that the Executive Directors current remuneration arrangements were agreed on a condential basis before the Demerger was announced, so as to be disclosed in the Alent Prospectus, it was not possible to carry out an internal employee consultation.
In the case of Mr Corbett, this was a promotion and in the case of Mr Egan, this was a new hire with the result that external comparisons and benchmarks were used.
It was not a case of comparing the new salaries with any more broadly based salary increases given across the Company.
However, this data, and these comparative measures, will be included in next years Remuneration Report.
The base salaries and the overall incentives and remuneration structure for the Executive Directors at the time of the Demerger were described in the Alent Prospectus.
The Remuneration Committee also obtains information on the remuneration paid for comparable roles at other companies, in order to provide a point of reference for determining remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee is aware of the need to ensure that the remuneration policy is rmly linked to the Companys strategy, including its risk management philosophy.
As all Remuneration Committee members also serve on the Audit Committee, each Committee benets from the Directors experience on the other.
This is particularly relevant when the Remuneration Committee is considering matters such as the Companys achievement of performance conditions and the implications for the Companys risk prole of the award of incentives under the Companys remuneration programmes.
The Remuneration Committee considers the Companys executive remuneration policy and incentive structure to be compatible with the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
The Boards intention is that remuneration is linked to strategic objectives and the delivery of superior performance, over both the medium and longer term.
In addition to base salary, pensions and other benets, the two key incentives for executives are the annual incentive plan and the long-term plans.
The Boards objective is to provide long-term value creation for shareholders, both absolute and relative, while also delivering sustainable short and longer term profits, earnings and cash ow performance.
The Companys strategy to achieve these objectives is to focus on high growth end-markets, with a continuing pipeline of innovative and superior new products driven by an exceptionally strong R&D capability, backed by a clear focus on servicing customers through a value-adding OEM sales strategy, an efficient global footprint and continuous improvement programmes in its manufacturing and other processes.
In addition, the Committee, in supervising the incentive schemes, is mindful to ensure that these do not encourage an inappropriate level of risk taking.
The remuneration policy is designed to incentivise and reward executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Companys strategy, with a significant proportion of the Executive Directors total remuneration being based on the variable, performance-related elements of the annual incentive and the Alent Share Plan.
The performance conditions under these arrangements are designed to support the Companys strategic objectives, including a focus on growth and shareholder returns by targeting key business imperatives.
For 2013 these are relative total shareholder return TSR, dened as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, and adjusted earnings per share EPS.
Targets are objective, auditable and transparent and as such are considered to be appropriate performance measures for management.
To ensure that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build a significant stake in the Company in accordance with the Companys share retention guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee will evaluate the efcacy of the Companys executive remuneration policy each year and commission formal reviews as it considers appropriate.
60 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 FIXED AND VARIABLE REMUNERATION FOR 2013 The following illustrates the balance between xed and variable remuneration for the Executive Directors based on the remuneration policy for 2013: Steve Corbett Target Variable portion 62% 38% 24% 38% Steve Corbett Maximum Variable portion 76% 24% 29% 47% David Egan Target 40% 20% 40% Variable portion 60% David Egan Maximum 25% 25% 50% Variable portion 75% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Annual Incentive LTI Includes Performance and Matching Shares The following illustrates the value of the Executive Directors xed and variable remuneration at on-target and maximum performance: Steve Corbett Target Steve Corbett Maximum $0 $500,000 $1,000,000 $1,500,000 $2,000,000 $2,500,000 $3,000,000 $3,500,000 David Egan Target David Egan Maximum 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 Salary Annual Incentive LTI Includes Performance and Matching Shares STOCK CODE: ALNT 61 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR 2013 As disclosed in the Alent Prospectus, the remuneration of the Executive Directors comprises base salary, annual incentive, long-term incentive and retirement benets: Element of Purpose and link to Remuneration remuneration policy Maximum award Key features Base salary Helps to recruit and retain key n a Paid in cash.
Normally reviewed by the Reflects the individuals experience, Remuneration Committee annually.
role and contribution within the Company.
Annual Incentive Incentivises executives to achieve 125% of base salary for the Entire bonus amount payable in cash.
For 2013, Annual Incentives are 100% of base salary for the based primarily on the achievement Subject to clawback.
of adjusted earnings per share targets for 2013, together with a deator if working capital targets are not met.
Alent Share Plan Flexible umbrella plan.
Executive Directors eligible to Participants are eligible to receive Aligns executives interests with receive, on an annual basis: annual allocations of Performance those of shareholders through the Share Awards.
a performance share award { These awards are eligible to vest three with a face value of up to 200% Rewards growth in shareholder years after their award date subject of base salary: or value and earnings.
to the achievement of specified a market-price option with a { performance conditions.
Aids retention of key executives face value of up to 300% of over a three-year performance Vesting of half of awards will be subject base salary.
to the Companys TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 excluding The Remuneration Committee Investment Trusts, or a bespoke group has the discretion to grant a mix of at least 20 comparator companies of performance share awards as determined by the Remuneration and market-price options to an Committee prior to the date of grant.
executive if the commercial value of the mixed grant is not higher Vesting of the remaining half of awards than the commercial value that will be subject to the growth in the would have been otherwise Companys EPS.
provided to the executive under Prior to any vesting the Remuneration a single grant.
Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that vesting has been justied by the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends accrued on any shares that vest.
62 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Element of Purpose and link to Remuneration remuneration policy Maximum award Key features Retirement Benets Helps to recruit and retain key Executive Directors are eligible to Benets are provided by way of an employees.
receive a pension allowance of 30% allowance which can be delivered in of their base salaries.
cash or as a payment to a dened Ensures income in retirement.
The Executive Directors are also eligible to receive certain benets in kind.
These principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance and medical insurance.
FURTHER DETAILS OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR 2013 BASE SALARY Base salary levels reect the individuals contribution and experience, the Companys financial performance, and the salaries paid in comparator companies.
At the time of the Demerger, Mr Corbetts promotion was reected in a salary increase of 20% due to his promotion to Chief Executive of the Company, his resultant changing role, and his increased responsibilities.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement of specified targets determined following consideration of the Companys financial budget and prior year actual financial results.
The targets will be set to ensure that maximum bonuses are only paid for signicantly exceeding expectations.
There is no deferral of annual bonuses for Executive Directors.
Each year the Remuneration Committee will establish the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These criteria will be set by reference to the Companys financial budget and prior year actual financial results.
The target range will be set to ensure that maximum bonuses are only paid for signicantly exceeding market expectations.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the setting and attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Companys longer-term strategic goals.
The annual incentive has a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a target level at which Executive Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their respective base salary and a maximum performance level at which a maximum award is earned.
Mr Corbetts maximum annual incentive potential is 125% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential is 62.5% of base salary.
For Mr Egan, his maximum annual incentive potential is 100% of base salary and his target annual incentive potential is 50% of base salary.
The structure of the 2013 Annual Incentive plan for Messrs Corbett and Egan will be based primarily on the achievement of adjusted earnings per share targets for 2013, together with a deator if working capital targets are not met.
ALENT LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Summary The long-term incentives are awarded under the Alent Share Plan the Plan, which was approved by Cookson shareholders at the time of the Demerger and rewards executives for delivering superior TSR, dened as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, and EPS growth over a set period of time, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
The Plan is structured as an umbrella plan, which gives greater exibility in terms of the awards which can be made, in line with current market practice.
This means that the Company only needs to have one set of share plan rules to cover all its current and prospective discretionary share plan needs.
The Plan will permit awards to be granted as: performance share awards LTI : { deferred share bonus awards: { restricted share awards: and { { market-price options.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 63 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued Eligibility and individual grant levels For Executive Directors, awards granted within 12 months following the Demerger will be granted in the form of performance share awards.
It is not intended to grant deferred share bonus awards or restricted share awards to Executive Directors, although David Egan will be awarded a one-off grant of restricted shares under the plan, to compensate him for the awards which he forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
This award was calculated on 50% of his base salary, less the amount of his 2012 annual incentive award from his previous employer, referenced to the Alent share price on his date of joining.
The resultant award is 23,909 Alent shares, with 50% vesting on 1 January 2014 and the remaining 50% vesting on 1 January 2015.
The award will be issued immediately after the announcement of the annual results and subject to the rules of the Alent Share Plan the Alent Plan, provided he had not given or received notice on each vesting date.
For the 12 month period after the Demerger, the Remuneration Committee shall have the discretion to consider the grant of different types of award including the utilisation of market price options, in which case any performance share awards will be reduced accordingly.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive, on an annual basis: a performance share award with a face value of up to 200% of base salary: or { { a market-price option with a face value of up to 300% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to grant a mix of performance share awards and market-price options provided the commercial value of the mixed grants is not higher than the commercial value of an unmixed grant that would otherwise have been provided to the executive.
Performance conditions for performance share awards The vesting of performance share awards granted by the Company will be based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions measured over a three-year period.
For performance share awards granted in 2013, the proportion of shares vesting will be based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based upon the Companys three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts or a bespoke group of at least 20 comparator companies as determined by the Remuneration Committee and 50% will be based on growth in adjusted EPS over a three-year period.
The two measures will operate independently.
The details regarding the performance conditions for performance share awards to be granted in 2013 threshold and maximum targets to determine the vesting outcome etc.
have not yet been nally determined.
However, the proposed concepts and structure have been discussed with key institutional shareholders and their comments noted.
The Remuneration Committee will obtain independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at the end of the relevant performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Measurement of the Companys TSR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day of the Companys financial year in which the award is granted.
TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index for the Company and each comparator company between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies are then ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If the Company is ranked at or above the median of the comparator group then a proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
Adjusted EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis.
Growth in adjusted EPS is the annualised percentage growth over the performance period.
Adjusted EPS for the base year i. e. the calendar year prior to the award date is compared with the final year i. e. the calendar year three years after the base year.
CLAWBACK ARRANGEMENTS The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements.
In the event that a misstatement is identied in the Companys consolidated financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior years accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee 64 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 deems appropriate of any variable executive remuneration including from both the annual incentive and the Plan and on an after tax basis resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
SHARE USAGE Under the rules of the Plan the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly issued shares.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
The Alent Share Plan complies with the current ABI guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on discretionary schemes.
Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors and outstanding under the Cookson LTIP as at 31 December 2012 are given in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements and note 10 to the Company financial statements.
No awards exist under the Alent Share Plan as at 31 December 2012.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR GRAPH Given that the Demerger did not become effective until 19 December 2012, it is not possible to produce a graph which compares the Companys TSR over the last five years with the return on an appropriate index in compliance with the Large & Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Report Regulations 2008.
For completeness, and in accordance with the Regulations, the graph below does compare the Companys TSR over the short period from the Demerger to 31 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in Alent since inception compared to FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts based on trading day spot values Value of 100 Holding 125 100 75 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 December December December December December December December December December December December December December 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Alent DIRECTORS CONTRACTS The following paragraphs summarise the main terms and conditions of the contracts of the Directors: STEVE CORBETT Steve Corbett is employed as Chief Executive officer of the Company pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Alent Investments Limited dated 31 October 2012, which was assigned to Alent upon completion of the Demerger.
Mr Corbetts appointment is terminable by the Company on not less than 12 months written notice, and by Mr Corbett on not less than six months written notice.
The Company has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benets to which Mr Corbett would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case, less $20,000.
Half of this payment will be made in a lump sum, the remainder in six equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of Mr Corbetts forgone notice period falls: if Mr Corbett nds a role paying equivalent or better base salary or fees, no further instalments shall be payable, and the value of any lesser new base salary or fees shall be deducted from any further instalments.
Mr Corbett is subject to certain non-compete and nonsolicitation covenants for a period of 12 months following the termination of his employment.
The agreement is governed by the law of the State of Rhode Island, USA.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 65 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued DAVID EGAN David Egan was appointed as the Finance Director of the Company effective on 1 January 2013.
He is eligible for the specic plans as outlined and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Egans appointment is terminable by the Company on not less than 12 months written notice, and by Mr Egan on not less than six months written notice.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benets to which Mr Egan would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case.
Half of this payment will be made in a lump sum, the remainder in six equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of Mr Egans foregone notice period falls: if Mr Egan nds a role paying equivalent or better base salary or fees, no further instalments shall be payable, and the value of any lesser new base salary or fees shall be deducted from any further instalments.
Mr Egan is subject to certain non-compete and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months following the termination of his employment.
The agreement is governed by English law.
None of the Executive Directors contracts contain any change of control provisions and they all contain a duty to mitigate should the Director nd an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
No Directors had any material interest in a contract of signicance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The terms of Service of the Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Nonexecutive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting and subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Nonexecutive Directors Annual General Meeting annual fees at which current term is Date of appointment expected to expire expired Unexpired notice period Chairman Non-executive Director Peter Hill 165,000 10 September 2012 21 May 2013 12 months Non-executive Directors Emma Fitzgerald 45,000 31 October 2012 21 May 2013 Not required Jan Oosterveld 45,000 31 October 2012 21 May 2013 Not required Nol Harwerth 60,000 31 October 2012 21 May 2013 Not required Lars Frberg 45,000 31 October 2012 21 May 2013 Not required Mark Williamson 65,000 31 October 2012 21 May 2013 Not required Total Non-executive Directors Remuneration 425,000 The base Non-executive Director fees were increased from 40,000 under Cookson to 45,000 under Alent.
The additional 15,000 fee paid to both the Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairman and the additional 5,000 fee paid to the Senior Independent Director remained unchanged.
Other than the Chairman, none of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of ofce at any time.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and all of the Directors now stand for re-election annually.
The Board sets the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the Executive Director concerned.
From 19 to 31 December 2012, Mr Butterworth received fees of 1,177 for his role as non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of St Ives plc.
Neither Mr Corbett nor Mr Egan hold outside appointments.
66 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 PENSION ARRANGEMENTS In accordance with their contracts, Messrs Corbett and Egan receive pension allowances of 30% of their base salaries to enable them to make their own pension provision as they may choose or take as a salary supplement.
Prior to the Demerger, Mr Corbett participated in Cooksons US pension plans.
Under the Cookson Electronics, Inc 401 k Savings Plan, Cookson matched any contribution made by Mr Corbett up to 6% of cash compensation, and then paid an additional discretionary matching contribution of up to 7% of Mr Corbetts cash compensation each year.
Under the Cookson Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan for Executives, Cookson matched any contribution made by Mr Corbett up to 6% of cash compensation, and then paid an additional discretionary matching contribution of up to 7% of Mr Corbetts cash compensation each year.
In addition Mr Corbett received a contribution of 9.1% of his cash compensation each year.
Mr Butterworth received no pension allowance from Alent plc between 19 and 31 December 2012.
Mr Egan received no pension benets during the period.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the applicable periods during 2012 by Alent plc: Base salary and Nonexecutive Annual 5 Directors Benefits in Incentive 2012 Total fees kind bonuses remuneration Chairman Non-executive 2 Peter Hill 5,711 5,711 Executive Directors 1 Steve Corbett 16,691 643 1,463 18,797 4 Mike Butterworth Non-executive Directors 3 Emma Fitzgerald 1,558 1,558 Lars Frberg 7,673 7,673 Nol Harwerth 10,231 10,231 3 Jan Oosterveld 1,558 1,558 Mark Williamson 11,083 11,083 Total Directors Remuneration 54,505 643 1,463 56,611 1.
Appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 10 September 2012 and continued to serve as a Director of Cookson Group plc until 31 October 2012.
Appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 10 September 2012 and continued to serve as a Director of Cookson Group plc until 19 December 2012.
Served as a Director of Cookson Group plc and appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012.
Mike Butterworth received no payment from Alent plc for his services as a Director.
Annual Incentive shown pro rata for the applicable period and were paid in March 2013.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 67 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE www.
com Remuneration Report continued SHARE PLAN AWARDS ALENT SHARE PLAN AWARDS No awards were made in 2012 under the Alent Share Plan.
COOKSON SHARE PLAN AWARDS Details of the Executive Directors awards under the Cookson Share Plan are shown in the table below: LTIP ALLOCATIONS Details of Mr Corbetts and Mr Butterworths allocation of shares under the Cookson LTIP are shown in the tables below: 2010 LTIP Award as adjusted for the Demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Alent plc and Vesuvius plc Demerger Adjustments Total share allocations Market price Revised outstanding as of shares on Cookson Share Revised allocation at 31 December 2012 day before allocations allocation over award as outstanding as over Alent Vesuvius Vesuvius adjusted at 31 Dec 2011 shares shares Alent shares shares for the Performance Earliest Grant date and type of award No.
Mr Egan joined the Company on 1 January 2013 and is not subject to any awards in 2012.
2011 and 2012 LTIP Awards as adjusted for the Demerger from awards over Cookson shares into awards over shares in Alent plc Total share allocations Market price Cookson Share Cookson Revised outstanding of shares allocations shares allocation as at on day before outstanding as allocated over Alent 31 Dec 2012 award at 31 Dec 2011 during the year shares Alent shares as adjusted for Performance Earliest Grant date and type of award No.
68 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 DIRECTORS INTERESTS The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2012 were as shown below.
31 Dec 2012 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares No.
Steve Corbett 73,672 Mike Butterworth 457,622 4 David Egan NIL Peter Hill 47,000 Emma Fitzgerald 6,000 Lars Frberg NIL Nol Harwerth NIL Jan Oosterveld 16,254 Mark Williamson NIL 1.
There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2013 to 28 March 2013.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered ofce during business hours.
Mr Frberg is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital which held just over 20% of Cooksons issued share capital on the date of his appointment to the Cookson Board and continued to hold an interest of just over 20% in Alents issued share capital following the Demerger, and as at the date of this report.
None of the other Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Appointed as a Director on 1 January 2013.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times gross base salary.
For new Executive Directors, the target is to achieve this within a four year period.
As at 31 December 2012, using the Companys share price at 31 December 2012 of 308.8p, Steve Corbett held 73,672 shares in Alent, representing 47% of his base salary gross, pre-tax.
Mr Corbett also currently holds 53,672 shares in Vesuvius plc, a portion of which he has not been permitted to sell during the closed period.
On behalf of the Board Nol Harwerth Chairman, Remuneration Committee 28 March 2013 STOCK CODE: ALNT 69 OUR GOVERNANCE
