Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 133 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Report Dear Shareholder, Our objective remains unchanged: The Remuneration Committee continues to seek to ensure that senior retaining and motivating our talented team executives of your company are rewarded in a manner that is fair by the comparison with companies in its sector both within Mexico to create long-term value for shareholders andinternationally.
within a framework of high respect for all Our objective remains unchanged: retaining and motivating our employees and the communities within talented team to create long-term value for shareholders within a framework of high respect for all employees and the communities which they work.
Fixed remuneration forms a higher proportion of the total than in many of its peer group companies reecting more closely custom inMexico.
Similarly, changes in share value are not a determinant ofvariable payments.
Instead, my colleagues and I believe that relating a significant portion of such compensation to nding and proving commercially viable long-term gold and silver reserves and resources is the most appropriate way to align the interests of executives and shareholders in matters over which the former have responsibility andcontrol.
Consequently, there may be years where share prices fall as a result of falling gold and silver prices but the quantum of variable remuneration may go up and vice versa.
While the new Chief Executive officer is not currently a Board member, and therefore the UK regulations do not strictly require ustoreport on his remuneration: we have nevertheless reported onOctavio Alvdrez remuneration since becoming Chief Executive officer as if he was a Board member, given our commitment to transparent reporting.
Since Fresnillo has become a separately quoted company, the maximum level of variable payments has been increased to provide an extra level of incentive for individual achievement.
However, our overall approach diverges from much international practice which we, as a committee, monitor carefully.
We are confident that our structure provides an efficient balance to reconcile the best interests of all of our stakeholders.
Yours faithfully Lord Cairns Lord Cairns Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 134 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Directors Remuneration Report continued This Report of the Remuneration Committee is the Directors Activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2012 Remuneration Report of the Company and has been prepared in During the year, the Committee met four times.
Its key activities during accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized the year were: Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the C onsideration of a report from Towers Watson on international Regulations.
The Report sets out information about the remuneration executive remuneration.
of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012.
In accordance with the Regulations, the C onsideration of information about Mexican ination trends and information provided in the section entitled Directors Remuneration internal employee salary reviews prior to setting the annual salary 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and accompanying notes has increases for the Chief Executive officer and members of the been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
R eview of the performance of the Chief Executive officer and Membership members of the Executive Committee compared to the KPIs set for2011 and approval of annual bonus awards for 2011 based The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors onachievement of KPI targets.
inthe year ended 31 December 2012: Review of KPI targets for members of the Executive Committee for L ord Cairns Chairman, Independent Non-executive Director 2012 including approval of changes to the targets to reward better M r Alberto Baillres, Chairman of the Board performance in safety improvement and exploration efforts.
M r Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director S etting the salary for the incoming Chief Executive officer: Mr Baillres was non-independent at the time of his appointment thisreview took account of the previous experience of the tothe Board and therefore his membership of the Remuneration newappointee.
Committee does not comply with Code Provision D. 2.1 of the UK M onitoring UK developments in executive remuneration.
However, the Board believes that O ther activities e. g. Committee evaluation, as required by MrBaillres experience and knowledge of the Group and the theCommittees terms of reference.
Mexicanmarket and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership ofthe Remuneration Committee.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Remuneration consultants are engaged to provide benchmarking information on remuneration but not to provide guidance on the Role structure of remuneration.
All of the consultants that the Company The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making uses are independent of the Company.
recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration policy for senior management the Chief Executive officer and other Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is members of the Executive Committee, and for determining specic supplied annually by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation.
remuneration packages for senior management, including pension Theinformation provided is used across the Group in determining rights and any compensation packages, as well as remuneration salaries for all employee grades including senior management.
oftheChairman within agreed terms of reference.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee receives specic reports The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration objectives in comparing the remuneration of the members of the Executive line with the Companys business plan and budget: also taking Committee to international benchmarks.
In April 2012, such a review account of wider inuences such as global trends within the mining was conducted by Towers Watson to validate the Companys policy industry and the remuneration norms within Mexico.
It also takes towards short-term and long-term remuneration and ensure that account of the remuneration packages across the whole of the itwas globally, as well as locally competitive.
The Remuneration Committee recognises The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration Committee that the financial performance of the Company is heavily inuenced fulls its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular bymacro-economic considerations such as commodity price and updates to the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory exchange rate movements.
These factors are, therefore, discounted developments in the UK.
The focus of the remuneration policy is therefore directed towards operational performance of the business The Group Human Resources Department provides information on as a whole and the individual roles of each of the senior executives Mexican market trends and compensation structures for the broader inachieving that performance.
employee population in the Fresnillo Group.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website atwww.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 135 Fresnillo Remuneration Policy Table The table below sets out the key elements of pay to which any potential Executive Director would be entitled: Purpose and Maximum Performance link to strategy Operation Value Metric Changes in year Base Salary Reviewed annually and xed Salaries are market None Salaries are Reects role and for 12 months starting on competitive both within reviewed in April experience of 1April each year and the theMexican context and each year individual review is inuenced by: internationally for comparable companies.
The previous R ole, experience and Chief Executives salary performance increased by 6% in 2012 A verage workforce salary toreect cost of living rise, adjustments inline with all other M exican economic factors employees.
C omparison with the Companys peer group in Mexico and internationally Benets An Executive Director would Full cost of benets provided.
None None are planned Help recruit and beentitled to life insurance, retain employees theuse of a company car, thepayment of medical expenses and medical benets.
Pension The Group closed its dened Contributions of between None None Rewards continued benefit scheme in 2007 and 5%and 8% are made to this employment and commenced a dened plan by its members and sustained contribution contribution scheme on 1 July contributions are matched 2007.
Executive Directors are bythe Company.
entitled to membership of the dened contribution scheme.
1 Incentive Plan Targets are renewed annually The maximum I ncrease in equivalent None Rewards the and relate to the strategic aims percentage of salary ounces produced achievement of of the business as a whole.
I ncrease in total resources shortand long-term and resources upgraded Bonus level is determined financial and strategic bythe Remuneration N et profit adjusted business targets and Committee based V arious stakeholder KPIs delivery of personal onperformance against F atal accidents objectives thetargets.
1 Fresnillo plc does not operate share option or long-term incentive schemes.
136 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Directors Remuneration Report continued Setting base salary levels for senior executives at an appropriate Remuneration policy levelis a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Therefore, the The Groups remuneration policy seeks to ensure that the Company Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market isable to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally management.
The retention of key management and the alignment forcomparable companies.
Total compensation is set around the ofmanagement incentives with the creation of shareholder value median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and total arekey objectives of this policy.
remuneration is benchmarked biennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term.
No Director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to vary salaries of the senior executives of the Company in light of salary adjustments being applied to the whole of the workforce.
Salary Annual Bonus I nternational mining company and domestic K PI targets aligned to strategic objectives corporate comparators L ong-term and short-term priorities M exican economic metrics e. g. ination B usiness performance compared to KPIs I ndividual experience P ersonal contribution to objectives Aligning Strategic Aims and Executive Remuneration Strategic Objective Area of KPI Focus Timeframe I ncrease production S hort and long term Maximise the potential of existing operations S afety S hort term I ncrease total resources and resources L ong term Deliver growth through development upgraded from inferred toindicated projects Extend the growth pipeline V arious Stakeholder Measures L ong term Advance sustainable development F inancial Net profit Adjusted S hort and long term Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 137 The Company operates a single cash-based incentive plan for the The Remuneration Committee keeps the policy under review and members of the Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive considers that the upper limit for cash-based remuneration incentives officer.
At the beginning of each year, the Remuneration Committee is appropriate.
In setting this level, the Remuneration Committee has approves a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs for each considered both local market practice and that within the global member of the Executive Committee, and KPI targets were set at which mining industry.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this payments equivalent to 0% to 50% of annual salary could be earned.
has helped to incentivise senior management in managing the Group Thus, whilst variable pay, by denition, will alter from year toyear, it will sustainably and in meeting shareholders reasonable expectations.
not be more than 50% of basic salary.
Although the targets are set annually, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensurethat the KPIs Shareholder voting on remuneration and targets are designed to focus on the long-term development of This report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the theFresnillo Group.
No distinction is therefore made between shortCompanys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committees approach to executive remuneration Pensions and other benets are also set at levels that are market has received strong support from shareholders at every annual general competitive to ensure that the retentive benets of market competitive meeting since the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange salaries are not eroded by poor benets.
More than 99% of independent share votes cast on the The performance targets upon which bonuses are based evolve from advisory vote at each AGM have been in favour of the Directors year-to-year in line with the strategy and include a mix of financial and Remuneration Report.
operational performance measures covering both shortand long-term AGM Voting on the Remuneration Report % timescales.
The prospect that this system will continue in future years provides a fundamental bridge with shareholders long-term interests.
All Shares Voted Free Float Shares Voted The KPI targets on which variable remuneration is based generally For Against For Against focuson risks that are within the control and inuence of management.
2009 99.88 0.12 99.34 0.66 Thus, the management of safety, security, project, human resource, 2010 99.99 0.01 99.97 0.03 exploration and environmental risks are all implicitly covered within theKPIs currently set.
The Companys core strategy is one of long-term sustainable growth.
Sustainable growth in mining requires the steady and safe expansion of the Groups operations through the discovery ofnew resources and construction, maintenance and or expansion ofnew mines.
Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Scenarios by Points Awarded 100 100104 105109 110114 115 Nil Two Four Five Six Variable Pay Months Salary 0 16.67 33.33 41.67 50.00 Variable Pay % Annual Salary Minimum Maximum Variable Pay Fixed Pay 138 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Directors Remuneration Report continued Below Board level, a statutory profit-sharing arrangement PTU is Implementation operated which, in recent years has enabled employees within the Fixed remuneration operating companies to receive significant levels of bonus in line with In setting the xed remuneration of the members of the Executive the increased profitability of the Company.
Neither the Chief Executive Committee, information relating to the mining company comparators officer nor any of the Non-executive Directors participate in a PTU is provided by various consultants.
Information relating to Mexican scheme within the Fresnillo Group.
The other members of the senior economic metrics and internal benchmarking is collated by management group below Board level are employed by Servicios management for the Remuneration Committee to consider.
In 2012, Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. which pays annual PTU information showing the three-year trends for ination, market growth payments.
However such payments are modest.
and pay increases in Mexico was considered in setting salary A scoring system is used for the plan.
Each objective set for the increases for members of the Executive Committee.
executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating A review conducted by Towers Watson in April 2012 enabled the which represents a median performance target for that objective.
Remuneration Committee to validate the Companys policy towards Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding short-term and long-term remuneration and ensure that it was globally performance and ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
as well as locally competitive.
The analysis evaluated the elements of Foreach member of the Executive Committee including the base salary: short-term compensation guaranteed payments and ChiefExecutive officer, a bonus is only payable if the aggregate short-term bonus and, separately, long-term compensation primarily performance equals or exceeds 100 points.
It concluded that the level of total remuneration As Mr Jaime Lomeln was only in post as Chief Executive officer for all of the members of the Executive Committee was set in line until15 August 2012, on an annually adjusted basis, he achieved withthe objective of the remuneration policy.
106.4points for the period to 15 August 2012 2011: 100.7 points andtherefore was awarded a bonus of US$213,649 for 2012.
Variable remuneration MrOctavio Alvdrez, on a similar set of metrics, achieved an equivalent The Remuneration Committee has considered the effectiveness annualised performance of 106.4 points for the period from 15 August ofKPIs and targets set in 2012 and it continues to consider that the 2012 to 31 December 2012 and therefore was awarded a bonus of overall structure of the Incentive Plan and the targets set in 2012 US$72,838 for the period from 15 August to 31 December 2012. remain appropriate for 2013.
However the Remuneration Committee will keep this under review.
In particular, they have asked the new Chief Executive officer to consider these targets and make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee, as appropriate, for its evaluation and possible inclusion for future years.
The objectives, as applied to Mr Lomeln and Mr Alvdrez incentive payments, the measures associated witheachobjective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: Objective Measure Weighting Points 2012 Award Points 1 Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 26.2 Production Increase in total resources and resources 30 38.2 Exploration growth 1 upgraded from inferred to indicated 2 Net profit adjusted 17 14.9 Financial Various stakeholder measures 11 15.0 Stakeholder No measure 11 15.4 Teamwork 3 Fatal accidents 5 0 Safety 100 109.7 Total 3.3 Adjustments 100 106.4 Total 1 Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored.
2 Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency uctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream Contract.
3 For the purposes of calculating fatalities: all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors.
In addition, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 139 Mr Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Ofcers Remuneration On 15 August 2012, Octavio Alvdrez was appointed Chief Executive Total Remuneration officer but was not appointed as a member of the Board of Directors.
The Total Remuneration paid to Messrs Lomeln and Alvdrez, Mr Alvdrez is employed under a contract of employment with Servicios includingnon-cash benets, for their respective periods of service Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. a subsidiary of Fresnillo plc.
asChief Executive officer during the year was US$1,328,374 in MrAlvdrezs contract was entered into on 15 August 2012 and is thecase of Mr Lomeln and US$464,842 in the case of Mr Alvdrez.
governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law.
It does not have a xed term and can be terminated in writing by either party on notice in In the absence of any long-term, equity-based incentive arrangement writing with no entitlement to additional compensation for termination or dened benefit pension arrangements, the remuneration policy other than compensation payments required for termination without enables a clear line of sight to total remuneration being simply the cause under Mexican labour laws.
No benets were payable under annual cost of salary, bonus and benets.
the service agreement upon termination of employment.
The salary Mr Jaime Lomeln payable under Mr Alvdrez service agreement is MXN$640,000 Until 15 August 2012, the then Chief Executive officer, Jaime Lomeln, permonth.
In addition, he receives other payments for holidays, was the sole Executive Director and was employed under a contract company-paid savings contributions and other cash benets.
of employment with Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. In2012, his total salary payments were MXN$5,923,542: US$449,434.
Mr Lomelns contract was entered into Under his service agreement, Mr Alvdrez is entitled to 26 working on9 May 2008 and was governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law.
days paid holiday per year.
He is not entitled to profit-sharing.
Itdid not have a xed term and could have been terminated in writing by either party on notice in writing with no entitlement to additional Mr Alvdrez is entitled to life insurance, the use of a company car, compensation for termination other than compensation payments thepayment of medical expenses and medical benets.
required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws.
Nobenets were payable under the service agreement upon Pensions termination of employment.
Mr Lomelns service agreement The Group operates two pension schemes: i a dened benefit wasterminated on 15 August 2012 when he took retirement from scheme, which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with executive employment.
On the same day he entered into a letter of benets frozen at this date for existing members, but subject to appointment as a Non-executive Director of the Company see below.
indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer The salary payable under Mr Lomelns service agreement, at the time PriceIndex: and ii a dened contribution scheme which was of his retirement was MXN$1,126,360 per month an increase of 6% on introduced on 1 July 2007.
In addition, he received other payments Membership of the latter scheme is voluntary, contributions of for holidays, company-paid savings contributions and other cash between 5% and 8% are made to this plan by its members and benets.
In 2012, his total salary payments were MXN$16,668,157: contributions are matched by the Company.
Mr Lomeln is a pensioner member of the dened benefit scheme Under his service agreement, Mr Lomeln is entitled to 26 working inrespect of service before 30 June 2007.
He did not join the dened days paid holiday per year.
He was not entitled to any statutory contribution scheme when it was introduced in 2007 and has no profit-sharing arrangement.
accrued benets under that scheme.
Mr Lomeln was entitled to life insurance, the use of a company car, Mr Alvdrez is a member of the Companys dened benefit pension personal security, meals, the payment of medical expenses and scheme in respect of service before 30 June 2007 and of the dened medical benets.
contribution scheme in respect of service since 1 July 2007.
The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are as follows: Date of original letter Notice period from Duration 1 Director of appointment Director to the Company ofterm Fees p. a. Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Lord Cairns 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Javier Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Arturo Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Rafael MacGregor 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Fernando Solana 18 February 2009 3 months 1 year 30,000 Alejandro Baillres 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Jaime Lomeln 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 1 Unexpired term: The Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts, which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The current term expires on2 May 2013, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM.
140 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Directors Remuneration Report continued Pensions and other benets are set at levels that are market Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of competitive to ensure that the retentive benets of market 14days per year in fullling their duties as a Director of the Company.
competitive salaries are not eroded by poor benets.
The A base fee of 30,000 is paid to each Non-executive Director.
Lord Remuneration Committee monitors the competitiveness of the Cairns and Guy Wilson receive a higher fee to reect: i the additional Companys pension arrangements and a review of pensions time commitment that they make in order to travel to Board meetings in benchmarking was last undertaken by Mercer in April 2011.
Mexico: and ii their responsibilities as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in the case of Lord Cairns and Chairman of the Audit Committee in the case of Guy Wilson.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the The fees payable to each Non-executive Director are set by the Board Non-executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in accordance with its Schedule of Reserved Matters, and have been inarrears.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not set at a level to reect the time commitment and level of involvement participate in any long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a whole.
nordo they accrue any pension entitlement.
Neither the Chairman There are no set fees for membership of any Board committees.
norany of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract with Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may give not theCompany: however each has entered into a letter of appointment less than three months notice of termination of the appointment.
There are no special provisions that have been agreed with the Non-executive Directors or the Executive Director with regard to compensation for loss of ofce.
Copies of the Directors letters of Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment appointment and service agreements are available for inspection On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors atthe Companys registered ofce.
signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period of three years.
Since April 2011, the letters of appointment of all External appointments serving Non-executive Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept obliging them to retire at each annual general meeting and be subject directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided to annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company.
The amendments have been drafted such that renewed Any such directorships must be formally notied to the Board.
appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment.
Performance review Non-executive Directors letters of appointment on the same terms were entered into with Alejandro Baillres and Mara Asuncin As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the Aramburuzabala on 16 April 2012 and Jaime Lomeln on 15 August performance of the Companys share price since its listing compared 2012 following his retirement from executive duties.
This is deemed to be the most appropriate index for comparative purposes.
Total shareholder return Total Shareholder Return from 14 May 2008 date of Listing to 31 December 2012 for Fresnillo plc Ordinary Shares compared with the FTSE 100 index, rebased to 100.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 141 Information subject to audit Directors Remuneration 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 Salary, Annual Bonus and Other Benets BenetsAnnual 1 2 US$000 Salary Fees in-Kind Bonus Total 2012 Total 2011 Chairman Alberto Baillres 48 0 0 48 48 Executive Directors Jaime Lomeln for period from 1.1.
12 to 31.12.12 18 0 0 18 0 Total 1,763 64 214 2,041 2,322 1 Fees are paid to Non-executive Directors in UK pounds sterling but for the purposes of this table the amounts paid during the year are shown in the reporting currency of US dollars.
2 Details of the Benets-in-Kind are set out on page 139.
Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the former Chief Executive officer, being the only Executive Director until 15 August 2012, was as follows: Increase, before Transfer value of increase Accumulated Increase in accrued ination, inaccrued beforeination, less US$000 accrued benets benetsduring the year benets duringtheyear  At 31 Dec 2012 At 31 Dec 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Jaime Lomeln 0 6,928 6,928 650 6,928 290 0 0 Note: At 31 December 2011 and 15 August 2012, the accrued value of Mr Lomelns pension fund equated to the transfer value.
Mr Lomeln is no longer accruing service in the pension scheme.
FollowingMrLomelns retirement from executive duties the entire amount of the fund was transferred out of the Fresnillo Pension Scheme.
This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board Lord Cairns Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2013
