overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 3.4 | directors remuneration report ReMUNeRAtiON COMMittee OUR PHiLOsOPHY ON ReMUNeRAtiON Chairman We have the same philosophy as any other Remuneration ComWilliam Macaulay mittee, namely to set the Companys remuneration policies and practices so that they facilitate the attraction, retention and Other members motivation of the Executive Directors and other senior executives Anthony Hayward of appropriately high calibre to implement the Groups stratLeonhard Fischer egy while aligning the interests of the Executive Directors and executives with those of shareholders generally.
This policy Secretary has consistently underpinned our entire approach to executive John Burton remuneration at Glencore.
One exceptional aspect of our Executive Directors remuneraLetteR fROM tHe CHAiRMAN tion is that, with their agreement and reflecting their status as Of tHe ReMUNeRAtiON COMMittee major shareholders, the Executive Directors do not currently participate in our long term incentive arrangements, while the Dear Shareholder CEO has also agreed not to participate in our bonus arrangements.
As a result, we are currently able to set overall remuneraOn behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am providing an tion for our Executive Directors at significantly lower levels than introduction to our Directors Remuneration Report for the year in comparable companies and for comparable performance.
As with last year, we have sought The Committee believes that the Executive Directors significant to make this report as short, simple and straightforward as personal shareholdings create sufficient alignment of interest possible.
with shareholders in the absence of participation in a long term incentive arrangement.
I would like to highlight the following:  Since 2012 there have been no changes to the structure of the arrangements for 2011, reflected in a 99% vote in favour of the Executive Directors remuneration or any increase in base salary.
2011 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2012 AGM.
Similarly, there have been no changes to the fees payable to the  and the other Non-Executive Directors.
tion for 2012 and no change to base salaries.
In addition, in 2012 the CEO again waived entitlement to both bonus and long term incentive awards LTIs.
The CFO also waived any GOVeRNANCe entitlement to any LTIs.
 This Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of the in 2012 the Committee determined that the CFO should be Board by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee adopts awarded a bonus of 200% of salary, half of which will be fidethe principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corferred into shares for three years.
porate Governance Code and complies with the Listing Rules  of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant schedules Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors over their of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Directors Remufees paid for 2011. neration Report Regulations in Schedule 8 to the Large and  Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports taking into account the UK Governments proposals on execRegulations 2008.
These regulations require the Companys utive remuneration disclosure.
Given, however, that the final auditors to report on the Audited Information in the report and regulations were not published at the time that this report was to state that this section has been properly prepared in accordcompiled, it was not considered feasible to reflect all of the ance with these regulations.
As such, the report is divided into UK Governments current proposals.
A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee the Companys 2013 AGM We believe that the members of the Committee provide a useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to provide William Macaulay the critical analysis required in carrying out the Committees Chairman of Remuneration Committee function.
In particular:  which has involved exposure to compensation issues many times and in a variety of situations:  exposure to issues of pay and incentives: and | Annual Report 2012 | 93  Companys retained auditor and also provided other services to executive in the resources industry, most notably as CEO of the Company.
The Committee considers Deloitte to be indeBP, and therefore brings considerable experience as a senior pendent.
The Remuneration Committee advisers terms of referexecutive to the Committees deliberations.
ence are in accordance with APB Ethical Standard 5 and restrict the provision of certain services in order to maintain auditor inAll members of the Remuneration Committee are considered dependence.
The scope and value of services to the Company to be independent.
Advice is provided with use of established methodologies and the advisers are not involved in the decision Role of the Remuneration Committee making process.
Advisory partners and staff have no involvement The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role.
They in audit, and are not involved in the preparation of audited inforare available on the Companys website at www.
Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to: sHAReHOLdeR VOtiNG  andreview its ongoing relevance and appropriateness : The table below shows the percentage and number of votes for,  and abstentions for the 2011 Directors Remuneration tors including the scope of pension payments: Report at the 2012 AGM: , in consultation with the Chief Executive: Votes For Votes Against Votes Abstentions  99.0% 0.2% 0.8% related remuneration including share incentive plans for, and 5,027,476,872 12,038,368 41,185,667 determine awards for, the Executive Directors:  Executive Directors are fair and not excessive: and .
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC and governance issues when setting remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the incentive structure for the Groups senior management does not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2012 The Committee met three times and considered, amongst other matters, the following: : , includingitslevel and structure:  under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan:  performance in 2011: and .
Internal advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend some or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee meetings.
They do not participate in any decisions concerning their own remuneration.
In addition, the Committee received advice from John Burton, the Company Secretary.
External advisers to the Remuneration Committee The remuneration consultancy practice of Deloitte LLP remained the provider of independent advice to the Committee during 2012.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration in the UK.
Deloitte LLP is the 94 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN eXeCUtiVe diReCtORs ReMUNeRAtiON All emoluments to the Directors are paid in UK Pounds Sterling except for pension contributions and insurance benefits provided to the Executive Directors.
As noted in the emoluments table below, these are presented in UK Pounds Sterling.
In addition, as the financial statements are denominated in U. S. Dollars, we have also provided the total remuneration figures for each Director in U. S. Dollars.
Remuneration Framework The key elements of the current Executive Directors remuneration framework are shown in the table below.
Each component is discussed in more detail on the pages that follow.
Executive Directors Component Purpose and link to strategy Overview Policy for 2013 1 Fixed Base salary  CEO:925,000 $ 1,470,750 1 tive fixed remuneration that competitive range for companies of a CFO:700,00 $ 1,113,000 rewards individual skills, similar size and complexity Nochangesfor2013 responsibilities and  bution due to take place in December 2013 Pension   Annualcontributionof benefits which reflects local employees 1519% of up to market practice  $296,170  CHF278,400 Nochangefor2013 Other Benefits  Nochangefor2013 ance cover benefits which insurances contribute to a market competitive package Variable Annual bonus  Awardofmaximumof200%ofsalary TheCEOcontinuesnotto term operational, financial  participate in the plan & strategic goals TheCFOcontinuesto participate in the plan Deferred Bonus   Nochangesfor2013 Plan shareholder value over the employees half of CFO bonus for 2012 longer-term  was deferred into shares into Glencore shares above an agreed amount for a period of up to 3 years Malusclausesapply  Performance %ofsalary  shareholder value over the Share Plan  continue not to participate longer-term in the plan: accordingly, no performance conditions have yet been established for Executive Directors Malusclausesapply Significant Personal  TheCEOhasabeneficial Shareholdings tives and shareholders needed given the size of shareholdings ownership of c. 15.5% TheCFOhasabeneficial ownership of c. 1% These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
Non-Executive Directors Component Purpose and link to strategy Overview Policy for 2013 Fees ,   experience and size of the Independent Director receive a base fee.
below for details of fees.
Company  membership to a Board committee  for the role  to participate in the Companys share incentive or pension scheme and do not receive any other remuneration or benefits  due to take place in December 2013 | Annual Report 2012 | 95 The Role of Variable Pay at Glencore Annual bonus Throughout the organisation, a significant proportion of the reThe maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in muneration of our senior employees is based on performance 2012 was 200% of base salary and will remain unchanged for during the year and, through partial deferral, including into 2013.
This opportunity is conservatively positioned against shares, to incentivise the creation of shareholder value over the market practice in UK-listed resources companies of a similar long term.
These principles have served the Company well over size, which the Committee believes is appropriate at the cura number of years and remain firmly in place.
Our Executive Directors have significant personal shareholdAs described above, the CEO did not participate in the annual ings.
They, and the Committee, believe that this currently probonus arrangements in 2012 while the CFO did.
This will remain vides sufficient alignment between their interests and those the case for 2013. of shareholders, regarding long term Company performance and shareholder value.
As a result, the CEO does not currently In respect of 2012, the Committee considered the performance participate in the annual or long term incentive arrangements of the CFO against a number of performance criteria including and receives just a base salary and pension benefits which are refinancing of the Groups sizeable borrowings, management of set at a lower level than for comparable companies.
The CFO the Groups credit ratings capital structure, ongoing input into participates in the annual bonus plan but does not currently development and improvement of the Groups risk systems and participate in any long term incentive arrangements.
having a pivotal role in the execution of major transactions.
On this basis, the Committee determined that the CFO should be Although this results in a higher proportion of fixed , 200%ofsalary themaximumoption as a percentage of total remuneration than would be the portunity for the 2012 financial year.
Half of this will be deferred case in comparable companies the Committee believes this is into shares over a three year period under the Deferred Bonus appropriate given the current alignment created through the Plan discussed below.
significant share ownership described above.
The Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The Committee also notes that it results in a lower level of overUnder the DBP, all or part of a participants bonus is deferred as all remuneration for the Executive Directors than would be the an award of ordinary shares Bonus Awards which vests at the case in similar companies, which is beneficial to shareholders.
end of a specified period subject to continued employment for an Executive Director and forfeiture for malus events.
The use Base Salary of a deferral plan strengthens the link between executive reIn 2012, the annual base salaries for the Executive Directors ward and long-term shareholder value.
The award period of  ferral may be up to three years depending on quantum.
There , whichtheComwill be no change in the structure of the plan for 2013. mittee considers to be within the market competitive range and appropriate.
Half of the CFOs 2012 bonus payment was deferred into shares which shall vest in three equal tranches on each of the three When the Committee originally set the remuneration for the anniversaries following grant.
Executive Directors in early 2011, it took into account market data from listed companies of a similar financial size, and pay Long term incentives and conditions in the wider Glencore group to ensure that pay As described above, the Executive Directors do not currently for our most senior employees is consistent with, and aligned participate in any long term incentive arrangements, reflectto, the rest of the organisation.
ing the significant alignment achieved through large personal shareholdings.
When reviewed in December 2012 for the following year, it was decided that the base salaries for the Executive Directors would The Committee will keep this under review to ensure it remains also remain unchanged for 2013. appropriate.
In the event that long term incentive awards are made to Executive Directors, they would normally be made under the Glencore Performance Share Plan described below and would include performance targets measured over a period of at least three years.
96 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN The Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholding The PSP was adopted on Admission.
The table below sets out The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant sharethe key features of the plan, which the Committee believes to holding by Executive Directors aligns their long-term economic be aligned with UK best practice.
interests with those of our shareholders and demonstrates their commitment to the business.
Key features Details Given the status of our current Executive Directors as major shareholders see the Directors share interests table in section Form of award  3.5, the Committee considers formal shareholding requireIndividual limits 500%ofbasesalary ments unnecessary at this time.
However, the Committee will Aggregate limits  keep this under review and may introduce a shareholding repractice dilution limits: 10% in ten years under quirement if it becomes appropriate to do so in the future.
all share plans and 5% in ten years under discretionary plans.
Pensions Malus clauses  event that a participants actions or behaviour The Executive Directors participate in the Groups defined results in a material loss, or detriment, to the contribution pension scheme which is operated for all staff at Company.
Contributions are paid in CHF and represented Change of control  amounts equivalent to c. 15 19% contributions are age related exchange awards for equivalent awards over of CHF278,400 for each Executive Director.
shares in the acquiring company: and Alternatively,  Other benefits determine that awards vest immediately, The Executive Directors benefit from the same insurance arsubject to time and if applicable performance proration.
rangements provided to all its Swiss employees being salary Leaver conditions , loss long term sickness and accident insurance cover.
disability and when the Committee exercises its discretion otherwise: Total shareholder return relative performance Ondeath, , unless The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured the Committee decides otherwise: and by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of  the FTSE Mining Sector index.
The Company is a constituent of will be determined by the Committee.
this index and it has been chosen as it is the widely recognised performance comparison for large UK-listed mining companies.
The time line on the graph starts on 24May 2011, the date of Admission.
In drawing up this graph it has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested, which the Company believes is a fair method of calculation.
110 100 90 80 70 60 50 5 11 8 11 11 11 2 12 5 12 8 12 11 12 FTSE 350 Mining Glencore | Annual Report 2012 | 97 Executive Directors Contracts The table below summarises the key features of the Executive Directors service contracts.
Provision Service contract terms Notice period  Contract date  Expiry date  Termination payment  Change in control ,  enhanced payments, nor for any liquidated damages External appointments The Executive Directors each held external appointments being directorships of non-subsidiary companies during 2012.
These are referred to at the end of their respective biographical summaries in section 3.2.
The Executive Directors assign to the Group any compensation which they receive from such external Board directorships.
AUdited seCtiON Directors emoluments The total emoluments, including contributions made in respect of pension plans, for the Directors for the 2012 financial year were: Pension and Total US$ 1 2 3 GBP thousand Base salary fees Annual bonus other benefits 2012 Total 2011 Total thousand Executive Directors Ivan Glasenberg 925 39 964 964 1533 4 Steven Kalmin 700 1400 30 2130 1431 3387 1625 1400 69 3094 2395 4920 Non-Executive Directors Simon Murray 675 675 456 1073 Peter Coates 179 179 128 285 Leonhard Fischer 129 129 92 205 Anthony Hayward 159 159 113 253 William Macaulay 127 127 90 202 Li Ning 91 91 65 145 1360 1360 944 2163 Total 2985 1400 69 4454 3339 7083 This constitutes the cost to the Company of the provision of the benefits referred to under Pension and Other Benefits above.
These costs have been borne in Swiss Francs and have been converted to UK Pounds Sterling using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
2 For the period from incorporation of Glencore International plc to 31 December 2011.
The same methodology applies in the next table.
3 These amounts are paid in a foreign currency and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
4 For the 2011 financial year, Mr Kalmin was awarded the same bonus as 2012, however he chose to waive half the award, which explains the difference between 2012 and 2011.
Directors contracts All Directors contracts will be available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the Notice of the 2013 AGM.
98 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Single number for total remuneration This table presents a single figure of remuneration earned by the Executive Directors in respect of 2012, taking into account the draft UK government remuneration regulations.
Base salary Annual Long term 2012 2011 2012 2 2 3 4 5 GBP thousand fees Benefits Pension bonus incentives Total Total Total US$ Executive Directors Ivan Glasenberg 925 2 36 964 964 1533 Steven Kalmin 700 2 28 1400 2130 1431 3387 Base salary fees paid during the year.
2 This constitutes the cost to the Company of the provision of the benefits referred to under Pension and Other Benefits above.
3 Value of annual bonus awarded to the CFO, including any deferral amounts, in respect of 2012.
For the 2011 financial year, Mr Kalmin was awarded the same bonus as 2012, however he chose to waive half the award, which explains the difference between 2012 and 2011.
The CEO did not participate in the annual bonus plan in 2011 on 2012.
4 Executive Directors did not participate in the Companys Performance Share Plan or in any other form of LTI.
5 These amounts are paid in a foreign currency and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
Non-Executive Directors Annual fees for 2012 were paid in accordance with a Non-ExecLetters of appointment and re-election all Non-Executive utive Directors role and responsibilities as follows: Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, GBP US$ 1 subject to reappointment at each AGM.
Each letter is dated 2012 thousand thousand 28April 2011.
The Company may terminate each appointment by immediate notice and there are no special arrangements or Directors entitlements on termination.
Chairman 675 1073 Senior Independent Director 109 173 Policy for determining Non-Executive Directors NED fees Non-Executive Director 79 126 the initial remuneration of the NEDs was determined by the Remuneration Committee Board prior to the IPO in 2011 within the limits set by the ArtiChairman 28 44 cles of Association.
NEDs are only remunerated through fees.
Member 15 24 No increases in fees were made in respect of 2012 and none Audit Committee have been made for 2013.
Further details are provided below.
Chairman 35 56 In particular, they are not eligible to participate in any of the Member 20 32 Companys share incentive schemes or join any Company penNomination Committee sion scheme.
Chairman 23 37 Member 12 19 The Boards policy is to review NED remuneration levels periHSEC Committee odically to ensure that they remain aligned with those of other Chairman 80 127 major listed companies.
Member 12 19 These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
| Annual Report 2012 | 99 diReCtORs PeNsiON eNtitLeMeNts Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement in respect of any pension arrangements.
The Executive Directors have never been members of defined benefit schemes provided by the Group and accordingly they have no accrued entitlements under these schemes.
For the Executive Directors, the following contributions have been made in 2012 to the Groups defined contribution pension scheme which it operates for its Swiss based employees which amounts have been included in the third numeric column in the table above : GBP US$ 2012 thousand thousand Ivan Glasenberg 36 51 Steven Kalmin 28 39 These payments have been converted from Swiss Francs to UK Pounds Sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 47. diReCtORs sHARe iNteRests The Directors who held office at 31December 2012 have the beneficial interests in the issued share capital of the Company shown in the Directors share interests table in section 3.5.
Approval Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: William Macaulay Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 March 2013 100 | Annual Report 2012 |
