Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Remuneration Report The Committee regularly reviews its reward philosophy to ensure it remains appropriate and commensurate with achievement.
Dear Shareholder As the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2012, for which we seek your support at our Annual General Meeting in October 2012.
Under the guidance of the former Remuneration Committee Chairman, Rupert Pennant-Rea, a comprehensive review of the Groups remuneration policy was undertaken last year.
This review resulted in a number of changes to the incentive arrangements for the new Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2012.
In my new role as Chairman of the Committee, I have ensured that the focus this year has been to review this reward philosophy to ensure that it remains appropriate.
During the year therefore, while allowing the changes to bed in, the Committee reviewed the new performance-related incentive arrangements introduced from the start of the financial year, in particular focussing on the potential outcomes to ensure they were commensurate with achievement.
In doing this, the Committee were mindful of the continuing challenging economic conditions and evolving landscape in remuneration developments.
Following this review, the Committee concluded that no changes were required to the performance-related incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors this year.
After reviewing the base salaries for the Executive Directors, however, it was decided appropriate to make a modest salary increase of 2% which was in line with, or in the majority of cases lower, than the average pay increase awarded to employees across the Group and operating companies.
Despite improved underlying performance, total remuneration for the financial year, on a like-for like-basis, was less than the previous financial year.
In addition to the actual remuneration for our new Executive Directors being lower than their predecessors, the Katherine Innes Ker, Committee also believes that there is now a clearer link between performance and the pay Remuneration Committee Chairman received.
The incentive arrangements reect the Groups corporate goals and are consistent 5 September 2012 with market and best practice.
Importantly, the Committee also believes that this reward philosophy enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the most gifted talent in the industry.
In this section Remuneration Policy p72 Full details of the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors is outlined from The supporting principles page 72.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors fees are included on page 76.
There have also been some changes this year to bring our Non-Executive Director fees more in line with their Fixed vs Variable Pay p73 responsibilities.
Providing the right balance The Committee will continue to have dialogue with its shareholders about any changes to Executive Remuneration p76 remuneration policy and welcomes your feedback.
The Committee will continue to take an What our Executive Directors active interest in shareholders views and the voting on the Directors Remuneration Report.
were paid As such, the Committee hopes to receive your support at the Annual General Meeting on 25 October 2012.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 September 2012 The operating profit of 115.1m for the year ending 2 July 2011 included 13m of non-recurring contract management savings.
com 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It has been approved by the Remuneration Committee the Committee and the Board and certain parts have been audited by Ernst and Young LLP.
Where disclosures have been subject to audit, they are indicated as such.
The Auditors opinion is included in their report on page 83.
The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance on directors remuneration and, in preparing this report, the Committee has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
The Committee also takes account of guidelines issued by ABI and NAPF and other representative bodies when setting and reviewing the remuneration policy.
An ordinary resolution to receive and approve this report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 25 October 2012.
Remuneration Committee Composition of the Committee Details of the members, the number of meetings and attendees in the year and the activities of the Committee are shown on page 70.
External advisers to the Committee, ewitt New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon, ewitt Limited act as independent remuneration advisers to the Committee.
Neither Aon, ewitt Limited nor the wider Aon Corporation provided any other services to the Group during the year.
Responsibilities of the Committee A summary of the Committees responsibilities is shown in the Remuneration Committees Report on page 70.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Key Committee activities during the year During the year, the Committee met four times.
The Chairman of the Committee also held a number of additional meetings with the Committees remuneration advisers.
In addition to the Committees routine business during the year, as outlined on page 70, the Committee discussed the potential changes arising from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and UK Corporate Governance Code consultations.
As part of the Boards performance evaluation described in the Corporate Governance section of this report, an evaluation of the Remuneration Committees performance was also undertaken.
During the year, the Committees recommendations were all accepted unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
Policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors It is the responsibility of the Committee to set the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Groups overall remuneration policy, as adopted by the Committee, is to ensure that we are paying enough to attract, retain and motivate high calibre individuals to deliver a performance in the interests of the Companys shareholders and the overall objectives of the business.
To achieve this, the Groups remuneration policy is based on the following key principles which are aligned with the recommendations of the Code on directors remuneration:- providing executives with a remuneration package that recognises the performance and experience of the individual concerned and the role fullled: ensuring considerable emphasis is placed on performance-driven compensation where targets are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and targeted shareholder returns: and ensuring the framework for remuneration is competitive in the market in which the Group competes, paying due regard to the pay practices of its peer group, to the wider pay market in the FTSE 250 and to other factors specic to the Group and to each Director.
The Group Chief Executive regularly reports on the remuneration arrangements for senior managers, who are not Board members but have significant inuence over the Groups ability to meet its strategic goals.
The Group Chief Executive also reports on the pay and conditions of employees elsewhere within the Group.
The Committee takes all of the information into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors, in addition to the Groups general reward policies and framework.
When setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure does not raise risks by inadvertently encouraging irresponsible behaviour.
Working with the Audit Committee and the Board, the Remuneration Committee ensures that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy.
The Executive Directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and governance matters seriously and to consider the long term implications of their decision making.
Accordingly, in line with the ABIs Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee has linked a proportion of the annual bonus to the achievement of safety and good governance objectives.
In accordance with the Committees policy, a substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performance-related.
The chart on page 73 shows the balance between xed and performance related pay at maximum performance levels.
Maximum performance assumes payment of maximum cash and deferred share bonuses and full vesting of shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
For the 2011 12 year, the 72 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive Directors did not receive performance related pay at maximum performance levels and full details on the actual amounts of performance related pay can be found on page 76.
Fixed and performance-related pay at maximum performance levels A summary of the Committees remuneration policy for the 2011 12 financial year is provided below.
There have been no changes to the remuneration policy for the 2012 13 financial year.
Maximum % 2011 12: Base salary The base salary of the Executive Directors is reviewed in April each year.
When determining this, the Committee considers the levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 status, responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity and median Percentage of salary salary levels of those comparable companies within the peer group.
The performance, experience Actual % 2011 12: and responsibilities of the individual are also taken into account, as are the pay and conditions throughout the Group.
From 1 April 2012, both Executive Directors were awarded an inationary increase of 2%.
This resulted in the Group Chief Executives salary increasing to 510,000 April 2011: 500,000 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 and the Group Finance Directors salary increasing to 326,400 April 2011: 320,000.
This Percentage of salary percentage increase was either the same as, or in the majority of cases below, the average pay Salary Cash bonus DSBP LTIP increase awarded to employees across the Group and operating companies.
Excludes any pension contributions and private medical insurance paid during the financial year.
See the emoluments and compensation table Remuneration element Description on page 76 for full details.
Salary xed Reviewed on 1 April each year Set by reference to the individuals performance, experience and responsibilities, using comparable mid-market data for guidance Performance-related Up to 100% of salary for maximum performance cash bonus variable 80% of bonus based on Group financial performance and 20% determined by safety and good governance objectives Payouts are subject to end of year quality of earnings and budget reviews Up to 50% of salary for maximum performance Deferred share bonus plan variable 50% of bonus based on Group financial performance over and above the performance-related cash bonus targets Awards paid in shares deferred for three years Bonus clawback provisions apply Annual award with a maximum value of up to 100% Long term incentive of salary plan variable Awards vest three years after grant to the extent performance conditions are met.
Current performance conditions are 50% compound annual growth in EPS: 40% relative TSR vs FTSE 250: and 10% long term strategic targets David Brown: no pension provision Pension xed Keith Down: pensions cash supplement payable Other benets xed Private medical insurance for Executive Directors, their spouses and any children under age 24 www.
com 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension The Final Salary Section of the Groups pension plan is closed to new employees.
Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors, are however able to participate in the Money Purchase Section of the pension plan.
The Group Chief Executive, who has no specic pension entitlement on top of his salary, elected to invest some of his own salary into the Money Purchase Section of the pension plan during the year.
From 1 April 2012, in accordance with opting for xed protection in relation to potential liabilities to the lifetime allowance charges, the Group Chief Executive ceased paying these contributions.
The Group Finance Director is entitled to receive an employer contribution of 13% of his salary into the Money Purchase Section of the pension plan.
e supplements this by making a 6% contribution from his own salary.
This arrangement was in place until 31 March 2012 when, in accordance with opting for xed protection in relation to potential liabilities to the lifetime allowance charges, all contributions into the pension plan ceased.
From 1 April 2012, the Group Finance Director instead received a non-pensionable cash alternative of 13% of his salary.
Performance-related cash bonus Each of the Executive Directors has the opportunity to earn a maximum performance-related cash bonus PRC of 100% of salary.
The objective of the PRC is to incentivise the Executive Directors to achieve the annual business plan, with 80% of the bonus attributable to measuring actual profit performance against budget and 20% attributable to safety and good governance.
For the year-ending 30 June 2012, Group performance against the profit target was below the maximum level, as a result of which 59% of a maximum 80% was payable.
For safety and good governance performance, the maximum 20% was awarded following the Committees assessment of a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators underpinned the Groups key strategic safety and governance priorities which are to run the Groups companies in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner.
The Audit Committee were also satisfied with the formal end of year quality of profit and budget review undertaken in conjunction with the Auditor.
The total PRC bonus of 79% of salary will be paid to the Executive Directors shortly after the AGM.
Deferred share bonus plan The Deferred share bonus plan DSBP, newly introduced for the year-ending 30 June 2012, enables the Committee to set targets linked to the achievement of important annual strategic goals which are key to the delivery of longer term value for shareholders.
Any award of deferred shares also enables the Executive Directors to earn a quicker and more direct right to shares in order to promote alignment with shareholders interests.
The Executive Directors are entitled to earn a maximum DSBP award of 50% of salary and, for the year-ending 30 June 2012, Group performance against this target was below the maximum level.
As a result 23% of salary was awarded.
The profit target for the DSBP was higher than for the performance-related cash bonus.
Shares equivalent to 23% of salary will be awarded to the Executive Directors shortly after the AGM.
These shares will be bought in the market and so will not result in shareholder dilution.
The Executive Directors must hold the shares for a period of three years and bonus claw-back provisions will apply during this deferral period.
Normal good leaver and change of control provisions will apply and there will be a dividend equivalent provision in operation over the deferral period.
Long term incentive plan For the year ended 30 June 2012, the new Executive Directors received their first LTIP awards with a face value of 100% of salary.
These awards consist of nil-cost options to acquire shares, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at the end of a three year performance period.
The three year performance period for these awards commenced with the start of the 2011 12 financial period and will end with the 2013 14 financial period.
As reported last year, the performance conditions for these awards, which are shown in the table below, are different to awards made previously for the former Executive Directors.
The Committee believes that the new financial and strategic performance conditions, in addition to the continued use of a revised relative total shareholder return TSR comparator group, remain relevant and challenging.
Importantly, awards will vest in full only if exceptional performance has been achieved.
Earnings per share EPS and TSR measures were chosen as the measures of the Groups long term performance and are consistent with the Groups objective of providing long term returns to shareholders.
EPS is an important growth measure and driver, and TSR improves shareholder alignment.
The EPS targets reect the fact that over 85% of the Groups revenue is regulated.
Percentage of EPS and Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Long-term TSR elements vesting growth in EPS excluding certain sectors strategic targets Weighting % of award 50% 40% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median To be disclosed retrospectively Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median at end of three year Between threshold and maximum 25% to 100% RPI 2% p. a. to RPI 6% p. a.
Between median and upper quartile performance period Maximum 100% RPI 6% p. a. or more Upper quartile Share incentive plan The Go-Ahead Group Plc Share Incentive Plan SIP is an, MRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a participating company and who have completed at least six months continuous service at the date of application.
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 125 per month or 10% of pre-tax salary if less which the Trustee of the SIP uses to buy partnership shares on their behalf.
Deductions are made from an employees gross income so no income tax or National Insurance will be payable provided the shares are held in trust for up to five years.
Neither Executive Director has elected to participate in the SIP at this time.
74 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Share ownership guidelines Shareholder guidelines are in place for the Executive Directors which provide for them to build up a personal or spouses shareholding equal to one years base salary over a period of five years.
At the end of the financial year, the Group Chief Executive had been in post for one year and held 5,792 shares.
Based on the closing share price on 30 June 2012, this equates to 13.7% of base salary in shares held in the Company.
The Group Finance Director had been in post for one year three months and held 3,542 shares, equating to 13.1% of his base salary.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Chairman and the Executive Directors following an annual review in April each year.
1 April 2012 1 April 2011 Fees 000 pa 000 pa Sir Patrick Brown 165 150 1 Andrew Allner 50 44 1 Katherine Innes Ker 50 44 Rupert Pennant-Rea 45 44 2 Nick, orler 45 1.
Additional fees of 5,000 payable to Andrew Allner and Katherine Innes Ker for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively.
Nick, orler was appointed to the Board on 14 November 2011.
The annual performance review seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or performance-related remuneration and may not participate in share option schemes.
The Chairman and Executive Directors comprise a Committee which decides the Non-Executive Directors fees.
Following the annual review in April 2012, an uplift of 1,000 was applied to the fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors.
This follows a period of three years during which no increase was made.
While Non-Executive Directors historically have not received additional fees for Committee chairmanship, from 1 April 2012, those who chaired a Committee also received an additional fee of 5,000 to reect the greater time commitment attributable to such roles.
Reasonable travelling and other expenses for costs properly incurred in the course of their duties are also reimbursed.
From 1 April 2012, the Chairman received a 10% fee increase which reected the increase in the Chairmans responsibilities, with added emphasis being placed on governance and leadership, following a period of three years in which no increases had been made.
The members of the Committee have no personal interests in the matters to be decided by the Committee other than as shareholders, and have no conicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
None of the Committee members were in attendance at meetings when matters associated with their own remuneration were considered.
Directors contracts It is the Groups policy to restrict the notice periods for Executive Directors to a maximum of 12 months.
In line with this policy, the Executive Directors have service contracts with an undefined term but which provide for the Company giving a notice period of 12 months.
The contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the discretion of the Company, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination of the contract.
Such payments are limited to base salary plus certain benets but would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
There are no provisions for special pension benets, such as beneficial early retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified below, the Executive Directors are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event of early termination of a service contract.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the contracts provide as much scope as is feasible to protect the interests of shareholders when negotiating a termination, at which time it would address the duty of mitigation.
In accordance with their service contracts, the Executive Directors are able to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees paid for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board.
Keith Down does not hold any external appointments.
David Brown is a Non-Executive Director of the Association of Train Operating Companies Limited: however, he does not receive any fees for this role.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Ofce during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
Date of Notice period Notice period service from the from the Director contract Company Director Sir Patrick Brown February 1999 6 months 6 months Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months Rupert Pennant-Rea October 2002 6 months 6 months 1 Nick, orler November 2011 6 months 6 months David Brown April 2011 1 year 6 months Keith Down March 2011 1 year 6 months 1.
Nick, orler was appointed to the Board on 14 November 2011. www.
com 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly all Directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the Companys AGM on 25 October 2012 except Nick, orler who will stand for election by shareholders for the first time.
Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last five financial years to 30 June 2012.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR the Board believes the comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
Total shareholder return rebased to 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Go-Ahead Group FTSE 250 Source: Datastream Audited information 1 Emoluments and compensation PerformancePrivate related Pension Medical 1 Salary Fees cash bonus allowance Insurance Total 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Patrick Brown 154 154 150 Andrew Allner 46 46 44 Katherine Innes Kerr 46 46 43 Rupert Pennant-Rea 44 44 44 2 Nick, orler 28 28 David Brown 503 397 6 906 251 3 Keith Down 322 254 11 4 591 207 4 Keith Ludeman 1,158 5 Nick Swift 436 1,143 651 11 10 1,815 2,333 1.
Excludes awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan as disclosed in the tables overleaf.
In addition, the Company paid pension contributions to the Money Purchase Section of the Group Pension Plan of 31,000 in respect of Keith Down 2011:10,000 and in 2011 31,000 in respect of Nick Swift.
Total excludes value of final salary pension accrual.
Total excludes value of final salary pension accrual and reects the period of service to 7 March 2011 only.
On an annualised basis, total emoluments and compensation would be 683,000.
76 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information During the financial year, no sums that were chargeable to UK income tax were payable to any Director of the Company by way of an expense allowance in respect of qualifying services.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Actual DSBP Award 1 Salary 23% of salary 000 000 David Brown 503 116 Keith Down 322 74 825 190 1.
Shares equivalent to 23% of salary as above will be awarded to the executives shortly after the AGM in October.
These will be bought in the open market and must be held for a minimum period of three years.
Bonus claw-back, normal good leaver and change of control provisions will apply during the deferral period.
There will also be a dividend equivalent provision in operation over the deferral period.
See page 74 for more details of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Long Term Incentive Plan End of period when Balance at 2 July Awards granted Awards lapsed Share price at Awards vested Share price at Balance at conditions must Award Date 2011 No.
date of award in year date of vesting 30 June 2012 No.
These awards applied to the three year performance period commencing with the start of 2011 12 financial period and ending with the 2013 14 financial period.
In October 2014, which is three years from the date of grant, the Committee will consider the extent to which the awards granted will vest.
Details of the performance conditions pertaining to these awards can be found on page 74 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
October 2009 and 2010 Awards retired Group Chief Executive only In October 2012 and September 2013, which is three years from the dates of grant respectively, the Committee will consider the extent to which the awards granted to Keith Ludeman former Group Chief Executive will vest.
The awards eligible to vest at this time have been reduced accordingly to reect the period over which Keith Ludeman was employed.
These awards were based on TSR performance against the two comparator groups only, with no EPS performance conditions.
October 2008 Award retired Group Chief Executive only In October 2011, three years after the date of grant, the Committee considered the extent to which the awards granted to Keith Ludeman former Group Chief Executive in October 2008 should vest based on the three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2008 09 financial period and ending with the 2010 11 financial period.
Out of a potential award of 46,908 shares, the Committee determined that 11,727 shares should be allowed to vest.
This was on the basis that only the TSR Transport Sector comparator element of the award 25% had passed the performance conditions.
Neither the EPS element of this award 50% or the TSR FTSE 250 element of this award 25% had passed their requisite performance conditions and so 35,181 share awards lapsed.
Directors share options No share options are held by or have been granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
For and On Behalf of the Board Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 September 2012 www.
