Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Remuneration Report The Committee regularly reviews its reward philosophy to ensure it remains appropriate and commensurate with achievement.
Dear Shareholder As the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2012, for which we seek your support at our Annual General Meeting in October 2012.
Under the guidance of the former Remuneration Committee Chairman, Rupert Pennant-Rea, a comprehensive review of the Groups remuneration policy was undertaken last year.
This review resulted in a number of changes to the incentive arrangements for the new Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2012.
In my new role as Chairman of the Committee, I have ensured that the focus this year has been to review this reward philosophy to ensure that it remains appropriate.
During the year therefore, while allowing the changes to bed in, the Committee reviewed the new performance-related incentive arrangements introduced from the start of the financial year, in particular focussing on the potential outcomes to ensure they were commensurate with achievement.
In doing this, the Committee were mindful of the continuing challenging economic conditions and evolving landscape in remuneration developments.
Following this review, the Committee concluded that no changes were required to the performance-related incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors this year.
After reviewing the base salaries for the Executive Directors, however, it was decided appropriate to make a modest salary increase of 2% which was in line with, or in the majority of cases lower, than the average pay increase awarded to employees across the Group and operating companies.
Despite improved underlying performance, total remuneration for the financial year, on a like-for like-basis, was less than the previous financial year.
In addition to the actual remuneration for our new Executive Directors being lower than their predecessors, the Katherine Innes Ker, Committee also believes that there is now a clearer link between performance and the pay Remuneration Committee Chairman received.
The incentive arrangements reect the Groups corporate goals and are consistent 5 September 2012 with market and best practice.
Importantly, the Committee also believes that this reward philosophy enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate the most gifted talent in the industry.
In this section Remuneration Policy p72 Full details of the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors is outlined from The supporting principles page 72.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors fees are included on page 76.
There have also been some changes this year to bring our Non-Executive Director fees more in line with their Fixed vs Variable Pay p73 responsibilities.
Providing the right balance The Committee will continue to have dialogue with its shareholders about any changes to Executive Remuneration p76 remuneration policy and welcomes your feedback.
The Committee will continue to take an What our Executive Directors active interest in shareholders views and the voting on the Directors Remuneration Report.
were paid As such, the Committee hopes to receive your support at the Annual General Meeting on 25 October 2012.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chairman 5 September 2012 The operating profit of 115.1m for the year ending 2 July 2011 included 13m of non-recurring contract management savings.
