co. uk 41 direCtors remuneration report executives and believe that, in addition strategy and the interests of to the philosophical points mentioned shareholders.
There will be a full above, we ensure that there isfairness consultation with the companys and common sense applied toour major investors and the new LTIP thinking.
The non-executive directors will be subject to shareholder believe that we have an excellent approval at next years AGM.
management team which must be paid The main body of this report is in line with comparable businesses, divided, as required by legislation, provided that performance is delivered intotwo parts, the first containing and value iscreated for shareholders.
unaudited information, principally For the year under review the onour policies, and the second business has delivered a good set of containing audited information, results.
Profit before tax has increased principally relating to the remuneration by 8.6% and our share price was up paid to directors over the2011 12 year-end on year-end.
The dividend financial year, which the companys increased by 7.4% and is well covered.
auditor are required to audit and In addition to our financial and tostate whether in their opinion that stockmarket performance we have part has been prepared inaccordance continued tomake progress on with the Companies Act 2006. ourstrategic priorities, highlighted Shareholders will be asked to vote elsewhere in thisreport.
Iam pleased onthis remuneration report, as an that this performance has generated ordinary resolution, at the companys good bonuses and a healthy level of AGM, where we hope to receive Introduction from thechairman likely vesting under our long-term ofthecommittee yoursupport.
incentive plan, both in terms of I am pleased to introduce our awards vesting this year based on directors remuneration report performance over the three years whichprovides further details toApril 2012 and the pipeline ontheremuneration policies for ofunvested awards based on Norman Murray ourexecutive directors and senior Chairman of the remuneration committee subsequentthree yearperiods.
management and on how these were 27 June 2012 applied in terms of remuneration paid Notwithstanding the strong performance during the 2011 12 financial year.
we continue to exercise restraint in pay levels.
Salary increases for executives The remuneration committees have been modest and nohigher than overallphilosophy and approach the average of the workforce generally.
 are driven by We are not proposing any changes to two keyprinciples, namely pay for the remuneration policy this year, but performance and the belief that the the long-term incentive plan LTIP remuneration structure should ensure reaches the end of its ten year life that there is close alignment between next year, so we will be considering the interests of senior management itsreplacement over the forthcoming and those of our shareholders.
We are year, and reviewing the remuneration very aware of the current environment policy generally so as to ensure that in which the committee must determine itremains aligned with our business appropriate remuneration packages for Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
indd 6 25 07 2012 10:54:27 42 Corporate governance direCtors remuneration report Continued The committee is satisfied that the provision When setting remuneration for the executive unaudited ofthese services does not in any way prejudice directors and senior management, the the position of New Bridge Street as committee is made aware of and has regard inFormation independent advisers tothecommittee.
to pay and conditions elsewhere within the The remuneration committee group and endeavours to ensure that pay Rooney Anand, chief executive, attends The remuneration committee is appointed rises for executive and non-executive meetings of the committee and provides by the board.
During the year the members directors are generally comparable with advice to help the committee determine were Norman Murray chairman of the those being applied in other parts of the appropriate remuneration and incentive committee, Ian Durant and John Brady.
The committee is also made aware packages for the finance director and the Allof the committee members were ofsome of the bonus plans operated for other senior executives, but he leaves the regarded by the board as independent managers throughout the group, and notes meeting when his own remuneration is non-executive directors.
that all staff with the requisite qualifying beingdiscussed.
The role of the committee includes service are able to participate in the determining the remuneration policy for the companys share save scheme.
Remuneration policy executive directors, the chairman and those Within the overall philosophy, the committees members of senior management whose Executive directors potential policy is to ensure that the group offers a details appear on pages 34 and 35.
It agrees overall remuneration profile competitive, and not excessive, remuneration the total individual remuneration package of In 2012 13, if the executive directors earn package to ensure that it can attract, motivate each of theexecutive directors and of those amaximum annual bonus award of 150% and retain high quality directors able to deliver senior managers, considers the granting of ofsalary and are granted an LTIP award continued growth ofthe business and achieve awards under the long-term incentive plan of133% of salary, basic salary will the groups strategic aims.
and determines bonuses payable to the represent26% of total remuneration, The policy provides an appropriate balance executive directors and senior managers.
withperformance related elements of between fixed and variable remuneration, 39%attributable to annual bonus and 35% It approves the contracts of the executive with a significant proportion of the package toLTIP excluding pension provision, directors and those senior executives referred being performance related pay measured asshown in the chart on page 43. toabove and any compensation arrangements over one and three year performance arising from their termination.
Further details are provided below.
Components of directors ismade aware of, and takes into account, the The committee considers whether there remuneration salary levels of the wider senior management areany aspects of the remuneration policy The key elements of the remuneration team and of the incentive arrangements which could inadvertently encourage package of each executive director operating throughout the company.
executives to take inappropriate risk aresetout in the table below.
andissatisfied that the policy remains Advisers to the appropriate in this regard.
The committee  also ensures that the incentive structure for The committee seeks advice on general executive directors and senior management remuneration matters and comparator does not raise environmental, social information from New Bridge Street, orgovernance risks by inadvertently abrandof Aon plc.
Aon plc provides insurance  behaviour.
broking and consultancy services to the group.
Components oF direCtors remuneration Element Description Objective Performance period Conditions Base salary Annual salary paid to executive To ensure that the executive n a n a directors directors receive an appropriate level of fixed remuneration havingregard to their skills andexperience Annual A maximum of 150% of salary can To incentivise executive directors 1 year with the economic profit Achievement of challenging be earned by the executive directors todeliver superior performance element up to 50% of salary performance goals over the course performance during the year, one third of during the course of a year, and subject to deferral into shares of a financial year, including bonus whichis dependent on the topromote retention and for12 months economic profit, group profitability achievement of a stretching stability amongst the senior and return oncapital employed economic profit target for FY12 13, management team with the remaining two-thirds dependent on a rangeof financial and non-financial targets The LTIP awards are inrespect of To incentivise the executive 3 years A combination of two challenging Long-term amaximum of133% of salary for directors to deliver superior conditions apply, namely an EPS incentive plan theexecutive directors, payable at levels of long-term performance target which accounts for 40% LTIP the end of the performance period for the benefit of shareholders, ofthe total and a free cash flow if the conditions have been met thereby aligning their interests target which accounts for the with those of our shareholders remaining 60% of the total award The company contributes to To ensure that directors n a n a Pension defined contribution pension areprovided with an appropriate arrangements for the executive pension provision directors or providescash in lieuwhere appropriate Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
co. uk 43 alignment of interest.
In addition, the Base salary expenditure on properties that were The base salary of the executives, which onethird of the bonus based on economic withinthe estate at the beginning of profit will be reclaimable by the company in isreviewed annually or when a change theperformance measurement period, inresponsibility occurs, is intended to exceptional circumstances of misstatement where that capital expenditure has or misconduct.
reflecttheir responsibilities, market value notbeenfunded from property disposal andsustained performance level.
Free cashflow has been chosen as Economic profit operating profit before levels, the committee considers current market aperformance condition because converting exceptional items less the weighted average practice and makes comparisons against a EBITDA topositive cashflows to support cost of capital multiplied by capital employed selection of other companies determined by debt repayment, continued investment is an important management tool and its reference to turnover, market capitalisation inthebusiness and the ongoing payment usein the annual bonus complements this and operational details.
For the 2012 13 ofdividends is a key measure for both strategic focus.
The use of economic profit financial year overall pay rises across the group management and shareholders.
also provides a balance to the rest ofthe have generally been limited to 2.5% and, for the bonus plan.
The target range for the adjusted free cash executive directors and senior management flow performance target for the 2012 13 The additional focus on economic profit team, the average pay rises were 2.4%.
awards will be that the aggregate adjusted encourages the management team to free cash flow of the company for the three Bonus targetmedium-term decisions to achieve financial years ending in April 2013, 2014 Bonus payments are determined by the growth by: ensuring better deployment of and2015 must be more than 262m to vest at remuneration committee and awarded capital expenditure: encouraging further the minimum level and at least 302m to vest where justified by performance.
For the improvements in relation to returns on infull.
Measuring on an aggregate three-year financial year 2012 13, the executive directors invested capital: freeing up assets where basis rather than the more common approach will be eligible to receive an annual incentive higher economic profit can be gained by of focusing on the end-year only ofthe three bonus, the maximum amount being 150% of thegroup: and extracting higher returns will ensure that there will be a focus on salary, for the achievement of stretch targets.
delivering cash across all threeyears.
Two-thirds of this amount, upto a maximum The target set for 2012 13 is to achieve a of 100% of salary, is based on pre-determined The adjusted earnings per share part of the stretching level of economic profit over and performance metrics, setat the start of the performance condition for awards granted in above the budget for the year, with a sliding year, based on group profitability, return on 2012 13 will be based on a sliding scale range scale for vesting which will ensure that capital employed, anda range of financial of pence per share targets for the 2014 15 management, in addition to the bonus being and non-financial specific targets relevant financial year end, with between 0% and limited to a maximum 50% of salary, will toeach individual.
100% of that part of the award vesting notbenefit from more than 20% of the uplift depending on the extent to which the targets The remaining one third of the bonus ineconomic profit, with the remaining 80% are met.
The committee does not consider it entitlement, equal to a maximum of 50% being retained for the benefit of shareholders.
appropriate to disclose the range due to its ofsalary, is subject to a separate performance There will be disclosure in the directors price sensitive nature, but does consider it to condition based on challenging levels of remuneration report at the end of the year of be appropriately challenging in the current annual economic profit performance to the basis on which the bonuses were payable.
There will be disclosure beachieved in 2012 13 in excess of the Long-term incentives of the conditions and the extent to which companys strategic plan.
This element Directors are entitled each year to an LTIP they have been achieved in the remuneration ofthe annual bonus is deferred into shares award equivalent to a maximum of 133% report at the time each award vests.
The deferred bonus and would ofbase salary.
beforfeited in the event that the relevant It will not be possible for the company to make director or employee leaves the group, other any further awards under the current LTIP Awards in 2012 will be made in the form than as a good leaver, during the deferral ofrestricted forfeitable shares, on which scheme after the 2012 13 financial year.
The period, to improve motivation, lock-in and company proposes to consult with shareholders dividends will be held in escrow pending vesting to be released to the directors to during the course of this financial year with regard to a replacement LTIP scheme.
theextent that the awards vest.
exeCutive direCtors potential All LTIP awards are subject to two Outstanding LTIP awards overall remuneration proFile performance measures, namely an adjusted The 2009 LTIP awards will vest at a rate free cash flow condition and an earnings of100% on the third anniversary of their Basic salary pershare condition, both measured over grant in December 2012 provided that the Maximum bonus athree-year period.
There is a 60:40 recipients remain employed by the group.
LTIP granted weighting in favour of the cash measure, The performance targets, vesting levels and given the importance of cash management the actual targets achieved are set out below: asa medium term business priority.
The use Vesting condition oftwo separate performance conditions is designed to provide a rounded assessment EPS represented 40% of theaward ofthe companys financial performance.
Figure for nil vesting 38.0p The three-year adjusted free cashflow Target for 50% vesting 44.0p 26% 26% measure will be determined by reference Target for 100% vesting 50.0p 35% 35% tonet cash flow from operating activities Figure achieved 53.0p lesscapital expenditure.
Net cash flow Free cash flow represented 60% fromoperating activities will include of the award theimpact of changes in working capital, Figure for nil vesting 190.0m andinterest and tax payments, but will be adjusted toexclude exceptional items at the Target for 50% vesting 210.0m 39% discretion of the remuneration committee 39% Target for 100% vesting 230.0m inconsultation with the audit committee.
Figure achieved 273.9m The capex-related deduction in the free cashflow measure will be for capital Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
indd 8 25 07 2012 10:54:29 44 44 Corpor Corporate go ate gov vernance ernance direCtors remuneration report Continued The following table sets out the current Components of directors Pension and life assurance non-executive directors fees: The pension arrangements for the executive remuneration continued directors are on a defined contribution basis, Outstanding LTIP awards continued Role 2012 13 fee with the company making a contribution at The 2010 and the 2011 LTIP awards will Chairman 170,000 therate of 25% for Rooney Anand and 20% for onlyvest to the extent that the relevant Matthew Fearn.
Directors are given an option Basic fee 43,000 performance targets are met over the three tohave pension contributions above the 50,000 financial years ending in April 2013 and Additional fees for chairing annual limit or above the total lifetime limit theaudit or remuneration April2014 respectively.
As with the 2009 imposed by the government paid to them in committee 7,000 award, a maximum of 60% of each award cash.
No element of remuneration other than will vest if an adjusted free cash flow annual pay is treated as pensionable.
Both Service agreements performance condition has been met and executive directors participate in a group Newly appointed executive directors theremaining 40% of the award will vest death-in-service insurance scheme, with death areoffered a service agreement with a ifan earnings per share performance benefits in excess of the HMRC maximum being noticeperiod of 1 year.
In the event of the condition has been met.
The target range provided through additional insurance.
The cost employment of an executive director being forthe aggregate adjusted free cash flow of this insurance is disclosed as a non-cash terminated, the committee would pay due company for the relevant three financial benefit in the emoluments table below.
regard to best practice and take account of years, which is calculated on a straight-line the individuals duty to mitigate their loss.
basis from 0% to 100%, is set out below.
Benefits in kind The range of taxable benefits available Rooney Anand, whose contract with the 2010 award 2011 award company commenced on 6 August 2001, toexecutive directors is listed on page 45.
3 years to 3 years to issubject to a 1 year notice period from the Target level April 2013 April 2014 Employee share schemes company.
His contract does not contain any Nil vesting 230.4m 250.0m In common with all other employees, additional terms relating to compensation theexecutive directors are also entitled to 50% vesting 250.4m 270.0m for termination of employment.
The terms participate in the companys sharesave plan.
100% vesting 270.4m 290.0m ofhis appointment as chief executive Further details are given later in this report.
wereagreed and set out in a letter dated The earnings per share performance 24December 2004.
Remuneration from other company conditions set a range for the EPS for the directorships Matthew Fearns contract may be terminated financial year ending in April 2013 for the Since September 2007 Rooney Anand by the company on giving 1 years notice, 2010 LTIP or April 2014 for the 2011 LTIP hasserved as a non-executive director of without any additional terms relating to which the remuneration committee Drive Assist Holdings Limited, a company compensation for termination of employment.
considered to be sufficiently challenging unconnected with the group.
He is entitled inthe market conditions.
Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to receive and retain for his personal benefit to letters of appointment for three-year periods.
The remuneration committee is advised 53k per annum from that company by way The table below sets out the start and expiry onaregular basis as to how actual of directors fees.
date of their respective appointments.
performance is tracking against the relevant targets.
In relation to the 2010 and 2011 LTIP Remuneration for non-executive Date of Present awards, based on the very good recent Director appointment expiry date directors performance of the business and assuming The fees paid to the chairman and the other Tim Bridge 2 May 05 1 May 14 that the business units continue to meet non-executive directors are determined by John Brady 24 Jun 05 23 Jun 14 their stretching strategic plan targets, it is the board as a whole.
They are agreed after anticipated that the business will meet the Ian Durant 16 Mar 07 15 Mar 13 taking external advice and making market upper quartile of the free cash flow target Norman Murray 1 Jan 04 31 Dec 12 comparisons, and relate to the services of the and the upper quartile of the earnings per directors in connection with the companys Mike Coupe 26 Jul 11 25 Jul 14 share target.
The non-executive directors do The appointments of all these non-executive nothave service agreements and cannot Details as to the extent to which the targets directors can be terminated by the company have actually been met and the awards have participate in the pension scheme, the atany time on three months written notice, bonusscheme or the share option schemes.
vested will be provided at the end of each notwithstanding the present expiry dates above.
perFormanCe oF greene King A graph showing the total shareholder return of Greene King relative to the FTSEAll-Share Index over the last five yearsis shown below.
We have chosen thiscomparator group as it isthe most appropriate market index of which the company is a member.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
2 Mike Coupe joined on 26 July 2011.
3 Matthew Fearn joined on 1 September 2011.
No payments were made to any third parties in respect of any directors services.
Non-cash benefits principally include the provision ofcompany cars, fuel for company cars, life assurance and private medical insurance.
Other cash benefits include cash allowances paidinlieuof company cars.
Deferred share bonus scheme In addition to the annual bonus figures above, 110k 2011: 253k of bonus will be payable to Rooney Anand and 46k 2011: nil to Matthew Fearn under the terms of the economic profit deferred share bonus scheme introduced in 2010.
Additional economic profit of 3.2m in excess of the strategic plan was achieved against a maximum target of 7.5m.
This results in a payout of 42.7% of the economic profit element of the bonus scheme, equating to 21.4% of Rooney Anands salary and 14.2% of Matthew Fearns salary the latters award having been pro-rated as he joined part way through the year.
The bonus will be deferred in the form of restricted shares, which will be acquired shortly after the preliminary announcement of the results.
They will be entitled to any dividends paid on those shares, which will be released to them if they remain in employment for a period of 1 year from the date that the shares are acquired.
Directors pensions Amounts paid or payable to the self-invested personal pension schemes of the executive directors made by the company in respect of the period are shown in the table below.
2012 2011 000 000 Rooney Anand 20 126 Ian Bull 12 65 Matthew Fearn 33 During the course of the year Rooney Anand reached the lifetime allowance for contributions to his pension fund and accordingly no further contributions will bemade to his pension.
Tim Bridge is a pensioner member of thegroups defined benefit scheme.
His pension is equivalent to 1 45th of his final pensionable earnings for each year of service, with a pro rata payment for a part year, subject to HMRC limits.
His final pensionable earnings were those received immediately prior to him ceasing to be chiefexecutive.
Two former directors receive additional pension income from the company.
JohnBridge, who retired as a director on31December 1989, receives a pension of31,000 pa in excess of his scheme entitlements and Bernard Tickner, who retired as a director on 27 August 1992, receives a pension of 25,000 pa in excess of his scheme entitlements.
As required by law, both of these figures are stated net of their company-funded pension in payment at 31March 1997.
Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
indd 10 25 07 2012 10:54:29 46 Corporate governance direCtors remuneration report Continued Long-term incentive plan A summary of the directors interests in options granted under the long-term incentive plan LTIP is shown below.
Outstanding Granted Vested Lapsed Outstanding Date of Type of as at during the during the during the as at Performance grant award 1 May 2011 period period period 29 April 2012 Vesting date period Rooney Anand 8 Aug 08 restricted forfeitable shares 82,000 82,000 May 2008 May 2011 9 Dec 09 restricted forfeitable shares 153,000 153,000 9 Dec 12 May 2009 May 2012 12 Aug 10 restricted forfeitable shares 160,000 160,000 12 Aug 13 May 2010 May 2013 4 Aug 11 restricted forfeitable shares 147,000 147,000 4 Aug 14 May 2011 May 2014 The market price of the shares on 4 August 2011, when the last awards were made, was 454.7p, although the number of shares comprising theaward was determined by reference to the closing market price on 3August 2011, namely 465.2p.
For details of the performance conditions on the LTIP awards please see pages 43 to 44.
During the year the 2008 LTIP awards lapsed on the third anniversary of their grant as a result of the remuneration committee having determined that the performance conditions applicable to those awards had not been met.
Total gains made by directors under the LTIP in the period ended 29 April 2012 therefore amounted to nil 2011: nil.
In total, LTIP awards made for three years 2006, 2007 and 2008 all lapsed due to the performance conditions not having been met.
No changes were made during the year or since the year end to the date of this report, to the terms and conditions of any awards then outstanding.
Save as set out above, noawards vested or lapsed during the year.
There have been no other changes to the date of this report.
Executive share options A summary of the directors interests in options granted under the companys executive share option schemes is shown below.
Ian Bull left on 1 July 2011 at which time his options lapsed.
No changes were made during the year to theterms and conditions of any options then outstanding 2011: no changes.
There have been no options exercised and no other changes since the year end to the date of this report.
co. uk 47 Sharesave scheme The company has operated an HMRC approved sharesave scheme for a number of years.
Options are granted over the companys ordinary shares at an option price which, at board discretion, is at a discount of up to 20% of the closing price at the time of granting.
The company has historically granted all such options at a 20% discount.
The interests of directors in options granted under the sharesave scheme were as follows: Outstanding Granted Exercised Lapsed Outstanding as at during during during the as at Option price 1 May 2011 the period the period period 29 April 2012 p Exercise period Rooney Anand Matthew Fearn 2,325 2,325 387 1 April 30 September 2015 All options outstanding as at 29 April 2012 were granted at an option price below the year-end closing price.
Share incentive plan The directors beneficial interests in Greene King shares resulting from participation inthe companys HMRC approved share incentive plan are reflected in their shareholding data in the directors report.
Share price during the period The closing price of the companys shares on27 April 2012 being the last business day before the financial period end was 512.5p 2011:489.6p.
The closing price of the companys shares during the period ranged between 410p and 523.5p.
Approved by the board of directors on 27June 2012.
Norman Murray Chairman of the remuneration committee 27 June 2012 Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
