Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Governance The Committee confirms that Deloitte LLP remains best The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial placed to advise the Group on matters related to tax year with Jane Aikman as the Chair.
All five members are compliance and the structure of the Group.
The Committee independent non-executive Directors in accordance with accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Chief Executive, Finance undertaken by the external auditors, and appointments are Director and representatives from the external Auditors made taking into account factors including expertise and attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide cost.
The Committee regularly reviews the amount and appropriate advice.
The Committee meets at least three nature of the non-audit work the external auditors perform.
times per year and routinely meets the Auditors without The Audit Committee is notified of all non-audit services the involvement of the executive Directors.
The Board with external auditors fees between 50,000 and 100,000. has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit The policy also sets a fee level per project of 100,000 above Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process.
She is a chartered accountant, was recently a finance The above fee levels for non-audit services are also subject director and has listed company experience.
to an annual cap equal to the audit fee.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee also receives a summary of all fees, audit Training and non-audit, payable to the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has extended all of its meetings by an hour to incorporate additional training on relevant topics, The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP during 2011 12 were for example bribery and corruption, cyber security, financial 660,000 2011: 653,000 and non-audit service fees were reporting, internal control and governance.
The principal non-audit service is tax related.
A summary of fees paid to the external auditors Auditor independence is set out in note 6 to the Accounts on page 107.
Deloitte LLP has been the external auditor of the Group since 2003.
A review of the independence of Deloitte LLP was In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK undertaken during the year, and the Committee concluded & Ireland 260 and Ethical Standard 1 issued by the that the relevant independence continued to be met.
It is of Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best prime importance that adequate procedures are in place to practice, the external Auditors have confirmed their safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence.
At the independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter year-end the auditors formally confirmed their independence addressed to the Directors.
and that objectivity has been maintained.
In addition, they are Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte audit every five years.
Following a rigorous evaluation of the LLP as the Companys independent auditors be proposed to audit service and a change in audit partner in 2010 11, the shareholders at the AGM in July 2012 and the Board Audit Committee agreed that a full tender was not required has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
On behalf of the Audit Committee The Groups Policy on Auditor Independence and Jane Aikman Services provided by the External Auditor sets out chairman restrictions on the categories of non-audit services which 14 June 2012 the external auditors are allowed to provide to the Group.
A summary of which is provided in the table below.
This policy is regularly reviewed and states that the Group will only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases where these services do not conflict with the auditors independence.
Policy of auditor independence and services Prohibited non-audit services Audit-related services not subject Permitted non-audit services, to separate tender if fees 100,000 subject to approval appraisal or valuation services: audits of businesses acquired or to be due diligence services relating to sold and due diligence services: acquisitions of new businesses or financial Information systems design significant investments, joint ventures and Implementation: opinions audit reports on information or strategic alliances with fees in excess provided by the company upon request bookkeeping services: of 100,000: from a third party: management functions: public reporting on investment circulars: advice on accounting policies: executive recruiting and resource services: and electronic data processing audits: and broker-dealer services: and liquidation services in respect of redundant tax services including local tax compliance.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
