HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 18 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS JOHN MCLEOD CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Over the past 12 months, Heritage has continued to strengthen and Dear Shareholder, develop its corporate strategy and portfolio of interests through the entry into Nigeria and the exit from Kurdistan.
The acquisition of an On behalf of the Board and the interest in OML 30, Nigeria, through Shoreline, has provided the Remuneration Committee, I am Company with a material increase in cash generation, production andreserves.
It provides exposure to the largest African oildelighted to present this years producing country and a platform for further growth.
Divesting of Remuneration Report for Heritage.
the Miran asset in Kurdistan secured an attractive valuation for an asset with a significant future capital expenditure requirement.
These corporate transactions have strengthened the Company and positioned it to provide substantial growth going forward.
Executive remuneration has continued to remain at the forefront of shareholder, regulatory and media attention during 2012.
Over the course of the year we have seen amended investor guidelines and proposed regulatory reporting requirements as a consequence of this sustained interest with the aim of ensuring that executive pay practices are transparent, linked to Company performance and aligned to corporate strategy.
In particular, UK government amendments to remuneration reporting regulations will, once nalised and adopted, alter the content and layout of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 19 Toensure that we will be well positioned to adhere to the changes, Furthermore, any unvested deferred awards will be subject to formal wehave continued to improve the quality of our dialogue with clawback measures.
Further details of these changes are set out on shareholders and the transparency of our reporting.
We continue to pages 23 to 24 of this report.
We believe that these amendments will monitor these proposals with interest and intend to be fully compliant not only provide a greater alignment between Directors and your once they have been implemented.
As such, I believe we are well interests, but reinforces our commitment to ensure our remuneration positioned to adhere to the changes when they come into effect.
practices align in so far as practicable with recommended UK best practice.
We are committed to providing a clear explanation of the underlying principles of our reward policy and ensuring our Executive Directors At the same time, following feedback from shareholders and further remuneration arrangements support the delivery of our business internal review, we have also approved changes to the contracts of the strategy and reward for exceptional Company performance.
Last year Executive Directors, reducing the notice periods and adopting more we stated that executive remuneration would be a focus for the Board modest termination provisions in the event of a change of control of and in line with this we initiated a thorough review of our pay the Company, in line with best practice.
This included benchmarking independent market data against global oil companies, thoroughly Together with the rest of the Board I look forward to hearing your reviewing our remuneration policy and, as described last year, views on these matters as well as any other questions you may have commissioning an independent remuneration risk review.
concerning the Groups executive remuneration policy.
We are mindful that the market for experienced and talented oil JOHN MCLEOD executives remains highly competitive and believe that retaining the CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION current Executive Directors protects the best interests of the Company COMMITTEE and our shareholders.
As a result of these reviews, we have made 29APRIL 2013 amendments to our remuneration policy which we believe will help to ensure the delivery of our long-term strategy and your interests.
Wehave continued to improve the quality of our dialogue with shareholders and the transparency of our reporting.
We have recommended, and the Board has approved, amendments to the bonus plan which we believe will further align our remuneration arrangements with the delivery of our business strategy.
We have introduced bonus deferral in our annual bonus scheme, which will apply to this years and future years bonus awards.
Any bonus payments awarded in excess of half of the maximum will now be deferred for one year.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 20 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED WHAT DID THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DO DURING THE YEAR?
MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS REMUNERATION Attendance at meetings 3 meetings held Commission and review of report from Hay Group on the John McLeod, Chairman 3 remuneration of Executive Directors and senior management.
1 Carmen Rodriguez 3 Approved base salary increase of 3% to the Executive Directors.
Sir Michael Wilkes 3 The Remuneration Committee considers wider pay increases to employees as well as general market conditionsbefore 1 Carmen Rodriguez replaced Salim Macki in March 2012. approvingany pay increases to Executives.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened Terms of Reference, BONUSES summarised below, which conform to the requirements of the Code and are available on the Companys website www.
Review of annual bonus arrangements for Executive Directors: recommendation and implementation of bonus deferral and formal clawback measures.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE LONG TERM INCENTIVE PL AN LTIP The Terms of Reference set out the responsibilities of the Review of 2011 LTIP and review of 2012 peer group companies Remuneration Committee.
These include: to be used for performance conditions.
Approval of awards made to set the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive in 2012 to Executive Directors and senior management.
Interim Directors and senior executives: review of current performance against the first awards made under to assess and determine total compensation packages available the 2011 LTIP.
to the Executive Directors: to monitor the remuneration of senior management other than REPORTING AND GOVERNANCE the Executive Directors: to determine policy and scope for pension rights and any Approval of Remuneration Report disclosures.
compensation payments: in determining remuneration to give due regard to the Code, RISK REVIEW UK Listing Rules and associated guidance: and to make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and Commission and review of independent reward risk review that of shareholders, on the design of LTIPs and making considering how Heritages reward policies help to mitigate recommendations for the grant of awards to executives under against, or may potentially exacerbate, risk including those such plans.
identied by Heritage on pages 36 to 38 of the Annual Review.
This report has been prepared with reference to the UK Large and SERVICE AGREEMENTS Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and meets the relevant Recommendation and implementation of amendments to the requirements of the FinancialConduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Executive Directors service contracts to reduce notice periods.
In preparing this report, consideration has also been given to the Code and the Association of British Insurers Principles of Remuneration guidelines.
The report has been divided into different parts for unaudited and audited information.
The first part, which is not required to be audited, details the role of the Remuneration Committee and our executive reward policy, with particular reference to the link between our reward policy and the business strategy.
The second part, which has been audited in accordance with the Regulations, contains details of the Executive Directors emoluments, performance share awards, options and pension arrangements.
A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 June 2013.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 21 UNAUDITED INFORMATION Following a review of the annual bonus arrangements, the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Committee has recommended, and the Board has The Committee metthree timesduring 2012 and the attendance approved, the introduction of a deferred bonus plan, and the record of individual Committee members is shown on page20 of this introduction of clawback provisions on all bonuses awarded to Corporate Governance Report.
Further details of these proposals are set out in the bonus section of this report.
As ever, we are committed to ensuring our policy is appropriate for Heritage in the context of All members of the Remuneration Committee, including John McLeod, the Committee Chairman, are considered by the Board to changing best practice and investor guidelines, discussing with third party advisers and then making recommendations for change where be independent, as explained in this Corporate Governance Report on page 9. necessary and will continue to do so.
In setting the remuneration policy and total compensation package During 2012 the Remuneration Committee also reviewed the LTIP peer group for awards made in 2012, to ensure that performance levels for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Remuneration Committee gives consideration to the economic against this group continues to be appropriate and stretching for Heritage.
After consideration of Heritages corporate transactions environment, the financial and operational performance of the Groupand the remuneration policy and levels for the wider employee during the year, the Board recommended some minor amendments to the constituents of this group: the full list of comparator population.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee considers how pay levels in the wider employee population compare against the organisations can be seen on page 24. market and is mindful of the pay differentials between top executives and roles at different levels in the structure.
In line with our Terms of Following consultations with external advisers and after taking intoaccount feedback from shareholders, the notice periods of the Reference, no individual is involved in setting their own pay.
Executive Directors have been reduced from 24 months to 12 months, effective 1 January 2013, to bring the Company further in ADVICE TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Chairman of the Board, CEO and CFO provide internal support line with best practice.
to the Remuneration Committee and attend meetings at the Committees invitation except where matters associated with their It remains the Remuneration Committees opinion that, in light of the geographic areas in which the Company operates, the relatively small own remuneration are being discussed.
number of executives at the Company and the roles conducted by the Executive Directors, an upper quartile level of total reward is The Remuneration Committee has access to external advice as required.
During the year, the Committee continued to receive appropriate.
However, whilst the policy allows for upper quartile levels of reward, these will only be realised for truly exceptional levels independent advice from external executive reward consultants, HayGroup, on matters under consideration by the Committee.
addition, Hay Group provided updates on market practice.
No other services were provided to the Company by Hay Group during The Remuneration Committee considers that Heritages remuneration policy should be sufficiently exible to reward theyear.
outstanding performance, in line with the performance-driven culture of the Group.
Hay Group is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory of its code of conduct.
The table below summarises the main elements of the Executive EXECUTIVE REWARD POLICY Directors remuneration packages and its alignment to Heritages business strategy.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has continued to monitor the executive reward policy and principles to ensure that they remain appropriate and continue to support the business strategy.
These broad principles, which the Remuneration Committee believes remain appropriate in the current climate, are designed to ensure that the Company: has an executive reward framework to help drive future value growth: retains and, when necessary, recruits management talent of the required ability and experience: provides overall levels of reward that are appropriate for the Company given its Premium Listing in London, international operations and the global nature of the oil and gas industry: follows UK best practice in so far that such standards support and enhance the Companys ability to generate value for shareholders: and maintains a balance between xed base package and benets and variable reward short and long-term incentives that is appropriate and motivates the right behaviours see chart on page 23.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 22 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED SUMMARY OF CURRENT REMUNERATION COMPONENTS COMPONENT OF EXECUTIVE POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE ALIGNMENT TO CORPORATE REWARD DIRECTORS STRATEGY Base package typically reviewed annually: market competitive pay levels enable us b enchmarked against UK and to recruit and retain the best available international oil and gas peer group talent for Heritage: and companies: and consideration of wider employee pay increases of 3% awarded for 2013. increases as well as general market conditions.
Annual bonus maximum opportunity of 300% of base promotes a high-performance culture: package: maximum levels of bonuses are only based on exceptional financial, available for exceptional performance: operational and non-financial encourages further alignment between achievements: Executive Directors and shareholders: any award in excess of 150% of salary strengthens the long-term strategic focus will be deferred for 12 months: of the Board: and 50% of deferred bonus will be payable in complies with UK best practice.
share price-indexed cash, the remainder will be payable in cash: and unvested awards are subject to clawback in the event of material misstatement of financial results or misconduct.
"2011 LTIP annual awards of performance shares: alignment with long-term corporate maximum award of 300% of base performance and shareholder value: and package: in line with the stage of Heritages relativeTotal Shareholder Return development since its London listing, ""TSR"" performance targets measured and in direct response to shareholders against a bespoke group of companies views, the vesting schedule of awards over three years: and made under the 2011 LTIP is in line with awards begin to vest for median typical market practice."
performance at which point 25% vests : full vesting for upper quartile performance.
Pension allowance of 10% of base package.
below market lower quartile and in line with our high-performance culture.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 23 BALANCE BETWEEN FIXED AND PERFORMANCEThe table below details the 2013 and 2012 base packages of the RELATED REWARD Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee rmly believes in pay for performance 2013 base 2012 base as demonstrated by the charts below which illustrate the balance Name package package Increase between xed base package and benets, including pension and Anthony Buckingham 766,514 744,188 3% variable bonus and long-term incentives elements of reward for each Paul Atherton 567,788 551,250 3% of the Executive Directors for exceptional performance.
ANNUAL BONUS Components of Executive Directors Reward Following dialogue with shareholders and in line with Heritages CEO CFO continued dedication to aligning with UK corporate governance and market best practice, an extensive review of the annual bonus plan 100 wasundertaken during 2012.
As a result of this review, the 80% 78% Committee has introduced bonus deferral to the scheme in addition 80 to a formal clawback mechanism for unvested deferred awards.
60 The total maximum bonus award remains at 300% of salary.
In line with our performance-driven culture, target bonus opportunity is 40 one third of the maximum.
This is lower than is typical in the 20 22% market.
For awards made in 2013 in respect of 2012 performance, 20% and all future awards, any bonus payment made in excess of 150% of 0 salary will now be deferred for a period of one year.
These deferred Fixed reward awards will vest at the end of the one-year deferral period.
Half of any Variable reward deferred award will be delivered in share price-indexed cash which Variable reward includes total 2012 bonus award and the fair value of long-term will increase, or reduce, in line with Heritages share price over the incentive awards notionally made on 19 June 2012. deferral period: the remainder of the deferred award will be payable in cash.
BASE PACKAGE As a general policy, base packages reect the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee believes that the introduction of this Committees assessment of the appropriate market rates for executive bonus deferralprovides further alignment between Executive positions in peer organisations, as well as the individuals level of Directors and shareholders, as well as strengthening long-term responsibility, experience, criticality and value to the business.
are therefore set at a level to enable the Company to recruit and retain high-calibre individuals in a highly competitive market where there is a BONUSES PAYABLE FOR 2012 PERFORMANCE shortage of experienced executives.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of annual believes that by ensuring Heritages market competitiveness in keeping bonuses paid to the Executive Directors and in doing so considers a and attracting some of the very best talent in the global oil sector, it is wide range of financial and non-financial performance indicators both protecting and generating shareholder value and ensuring the over the year.
These include, but are not limited to, environmental, long-term success of the Company.
health and safety issues, the time dedicated by Directors in developing and expanding Heritages portfolio as well as the financial Salaries are reviewed annually with any increases becoming effective performance of the Company.
in the first quarter of the relevant financial year.
To ensure informed decision-making, the Remuneration Committee is provided with In particular, the Committee recognises that during the year the independent benchmark data.
As part of the Remuneration Directors have successfully negotiated and effected key strategic deals Committees review last year, the Company was compared against which will provide the foundation forcontinued growth, ensuring the three pre-determined peer groups of comparable companies, namely: future success of Heritage.
The delivery of a cash-generating asset to Heritages portfolio will help to fund the activities of the Company a comparator group comprising both UK and international oil and going forward.
As such, the Committee has recommended bonus gas companies of a similar size and scale to Heritage: awards of 300% of base package in respect of outstanding a peer group comprising those oil and gas companies that are performance in 2012.
These awards will be subject to deferral, with often used by equity analysts to evaluate Heritages performance: half deferred for one year in keeping with the new arrangements and outlined above.
the constituents of the FTSE 350 Oil and Gas index.
The Committee recognises that benchmark data forms only one part of any pay-setting exercise and should be viewed in context.
When making any decisions regarding proposed salary increases, the Remuneration Committee also has due regard to the salaries of, and the increases awarded to, all Group employees, the views of institutional shareholders and the desire to emphasise the importance of the performance-related elements of the package.
For 2013, the Committee has recommended an increase of 3% of salary.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 24 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED CLAWBACK PROVISIONS Aminex PLC Maurel et Prom Reecting our proactive approach to risk management, and our continued commitment to aligning Heritages remuneration policy Afren Plc Petroceltic International plc with best practice, the Remuneration Committee has introduced a Bowleven plc Premier Oil plc formal clawback mechanism for unvested deferred bonus awards.
These provisions will apply to bonus awards made in 2013, in respect Cadogan Petroleum PLC RusPetro plc of 2012 performance, and any future awards.
DNO International Asa Salamander Energy plc Unvested deferred bonus awards may be reduced, either in part or in EnQuest PLC SOCO International plc whole, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee in the event that, in the opinion of the Committee, any of the following issues Exillon Energy plc Sterling Energy Plc arise: Hardy Oil & Gas Plc Tullow Oil plc if there is later found to be a material misstatement of the financial JKX Oil & Gas Plc Valiant Petroleum plc results: if there is later found to be an error in assessing the extent to Awards will vest in full for upper quartile performance, reducing on a which bonus payments were made: or straight-line basis to 25% vesting at median.
No award will vest for if the Director ceases to be an employee of the Company as a below median performance.
There is an additional holding period of one year following the LONG-TERM INCENTIVES vesting of any awards.
2011 LTIP In order to align the executives interests with those of the long-term 2008 LTIP success of the Company and value delivered to shareholders, the The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008, shortly after Company makes awards of long-term equity-based incentives to the Companys otation on the LSE.
However, share price targets for those employees with the ability to inuence shareholder value.
these awards were not met and as such the awards lapsed during Following a comprehensive review of the Companys remuneration 2011.
Following the introduction of the 2011 LTIP, no further awards arrangements, the Committee oversaw the introduction of the 2011 will be made under this plan apart from in relation to Anthony LTIP.
This plan marked the move to annual LTIP awards which the Buckingham, the only Director who coninues to hold LTIPs under Committee believes, for a UK-listed global company of Heritages the 2008 scheme.
size, is appropriate given the current stage of the business development.
Further, an annual awarding and vesting schedule 2008 REPLACEMENT SHARE OPTION SCHEME avoids a gap in remuneration arrangements and assists the HOC implemented The Heritage Oil Corporation Plan the Original Committee in keeping, retaining and incentivising the very best Plan following approval by its shareholders in 2004 and granted talent in a highly competitive sector.
This plan replaced the 2008 options under the Original Plan to its Executive and Non-Executive LTIP and all future long-term incentive awards will be made under Directors and other employees and consultants at that time.
The this plan apart from those in relation toAnthony Buckingham.
grant of options included all the then current Executive and NonAnthony Buckingham continues to hold his LTIP award under the Executive Board members and so did not include Sir Michael Wilkes, 2008 LTIP on amended performance conditions, revised to reect Salim Macki, Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin.
As a result of the substantially the same terms and conditions as those under the rules Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the Main Market of of the 2011 LTIP.
the LSE, all the Board members were entitled to retain their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options to acquire ten In line with the Companys high-performance culture, the plan Ordinary Shares of the Company for every one Common Share they allows for upper quartile levels of reward to be delivered, but only for held under option.
The Original Plan was then cancelled and, on upper quartile performance.
18March 2008, the Company adopted The Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme the Replacement The rules of the 2011 LTIP allow for annual awards of performance Scheme which is substantially in the same form as the Original shares of up to 300% of base package to be made to Executive Plan.
The purpose of the Replacement Scheme is to act as a Directors which may be exceeded in exceptional circumstances.
replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options granted However, it is the Committees intention that the Executive Directors under it by granting holders the option to purchase Ordinary Shares.
will not annually receive the maximum level of award under the plan: The Replacement Scheme is administered by the Board and no awards granted on 19 June 2012 were the equivalent of 275% of base further options will be granted under it.
This maximum level of award has been calibrated to be lower, on an annualised basis, than was permissable under the 2008 The maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued LTIP and is consistent with the provisional award made to the under the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent executives in 2011. number of shares required to replace the options granted under the Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
Awards vest subject to three year TSR performance conditions measured against a bespoke group of peer companies.
The comparator group companies were selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and geographic spread.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 25 All options under the Replacement Scheme have now vested and are subject to issuance once the Company is no longer in close period.
The Company will not grant any further options under this scheme.
PENSIONS Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension scheme nominated by the executive.
OTHER BENEFITS The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with private medical insurance, life insurance and school fees for dependents, but no other benets in kind which would be typical in the UK, such as a company car.
In addition, both Executive Directors are entitled to housing allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES At present the Committee has not established formal Executive Director shareholding guidelines as, in the opinion of the Committee, these would be superuous at this time.
The Executive Directors hold a substantial number of shares in the Company and have interests in shares under various share incentive arrangements as shown in the table below as at29 April2013: Anthony Paul Buckingham Atherton Shares held 85,040,340 2,390,000 Shares vested under the 2008 replacement scheme, yet to be excercised 9,629,510 1,625,000 Interest in shares under the 2011 LTIP schemes 2,498,679 1,850,873 Total number of shares 97,168,529 5,865,873 1 Notional value of shares at year end, 184,231,531 11,121,695 Total value as a multiple of base package 247.6 times 20.2 times 1 Based on a year-end share price of 189.6p, assuming full vesting of outstanding LTIP awards.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS The Committee is aware that the legacy service contracts of the Executive Directors were not fully compliant with UK best practice and as such has reviewed these contracts as part of the extensive review of executive remuneration arrangements undertaken during 2012.
The Committee has recommended amendments to these contracts in line with UK best practice compliance.
The Executive Directors service agreements with the Company are for no xed term.
In normal circumstances, the new agreements may be terminated by the Company giving no less than 12 months notice and the Director giving six months notice.
Date of Unexpired Notice period Notice period Executive Director contract term by Company by Director 1,2 Anthony Buckingham 28 March 2008 Rolling contract 12 months 6 months 1,2 Paul Atherton 28 March 2008 Rolling contract 12 months 6 months 1 The Executive Director was appointed previously as indicated on page 8and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
2 The contracts have been amended to reect the new notice period by the Company.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, if the Executive Directors resign or the Company terminates their appointment within 12 months of such an event, they will each be entitled to an immediate payment in lieu of notice of a sum equivalent to one times their annual base package.
In addition, they will be entitled to a payment of Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
The Company also may terminate the agreements and make payments in lieu of notice.
Currently the Executive Directors service contracts do not provide for mitigation in the event of early termination.
The Remuneration Committee has a duty to ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Executive Directors do not have service contracts with any Group subsidiary.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but their terms are set out in a letter of appointment.
Their terms of appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months notice in writing.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the Executive members of the Board.
The Companys policy is to set levels for Non-Executive Directors remuneration so as to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high-quality Directors and reect the above-average time dedicated by the Non-Executive Directors.
Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors remain at 2012 levels.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 26 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Fee levels for 2012 and 2013 are set out below.
Actual fees paid for the year ended 31 December 2012 are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 27.
2013 2012 Michael Hibberd 126,000 126,000 1 Mark Erwin 84,000 56,000 John McLeod 84,000 84,000 2 Carmen Rodriguez 84,000 67,300 3 Salim Macki 18,400 Gregory Turnbull 84,000 84,000 Sir Michael Wilkes 84,000 84,000 Additional fee for each day worked in excess of the agreed 20 days per annum 2,000 2,000 1 Mark Erwin joined the Board on 1 May 2012 and received a pro-rata payment for 2012.
2 Carmen Rodriguez joined the Board in March 2012 and received a pro-rata payment for 2012.
3 Salim Macki resigned from the Board in March 2012 and received a pro-rata payment for 2012.
Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod, being Directors of HOC, will be entitled to a payment of Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
Terms of appointment and reappointment are set out below: Date of Notice Last Non-Executive Director contract period re-election 1 Michael Hibberd 28 March 2008 3 months 2012 AGM 2 Mark Erwin 1 May 2012 3 months N A 1 John McLeod 28 March 2008 3 months 2012 AGM 3 Carmen Rodriguez 22 March 2012 3 months 2012 AGM 1 Gregory Turnbull 28 March 2008 3 months 2012 AGM 1 Sir Michael Wilkes 28 March 2008 3 months 2012 AGM 1 The Non-Executive Director was appointed on 18 March 2008 and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
2 Mark Erwin joined the Board on 1 May 2012.
3 Carmen Rodriguez replaced Salim Macki in March 2012.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys pension arrangements.
Although they may have previously received grants of options prior to listing on the LSE, they have not and will not receive any further grants or participate in any other long-term incentive arrangements since this time.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 27 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows the Companys TSR since trading of the Companys shares began on the LSE on 31 March 2008 to 31 December 2012, against the FTSE 250 Index.
The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market index which the Company forms a part of and therefore provides a good indication of the Companys general performance.
Where shares ceased to trade, the TSR line for Heritage is blank.
AUDITED INFORMATION DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2012 Base package Annual 2012 2012 2011 2011 1 fees Benets bonus Total Pensions Total Pensions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Anthony Buckingham 744.2 117.1 2,232.6 3,093.9 74.4 1,363.9 70.9 Paul Atherton 551.3 179.0 1,653.8 2,384.1 55.1 1,078.6 52.5 Non-Executive Directors Michael Hibberd 126.0 126.0 120.0 2 Mark Erwin 56.0 56.0 3 Salim Macki 18.4 18.4 80.0 John McLeod 84.0 84.0 80.0 3 Carmen Rodriguez 67.3 67.3 Gregory Turnbull 84.0 84.0 80.0 Sir Michael Wilkes 84.0 84.0 80.0 Total 1,815.2 296.1 3,886.4 5,997.7 129.5 2,882.5 123.4 1 Shows the taxable value of benets, comprising private medical insurance, life insurance, school fees and housing allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton, but excludes pension contributions.
In 2012, the Company accrued $2.5 million in general and administrative expenses, in relation to an arbitration settlement to a former Director of HOC whose services were terminated in 2006.
Further arbitration proceedings have been initiated by this individual.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 28 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED LTIP PERFORMANCE SHARES Conditional awards of performance shares were granted to Executive Directors on 19 June 2012 as shown below.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN PERFORMANCE SHARES Number of Number of Share price Awarded Vested Lapsed shares as at shares as at Date of Earliest at date in the in the in the 31 December 1 January award vesting of grant period period period 2012 2012 1,2 Anthony Buckingham 20 June 2011 20 June 2014 212.8p 915,913 915,913 19 June2012 19 June2015 129.3 1,582,766 2,498,679 1 Paul Atherton 20 June 2011 20 June 2014 212.8p 678,454 678,454 19 June2012 19 June2015 129.3 1,172,419 1,850,873 1 In accordance with the Companys regular LTIP award timetable, shares granted on 19 June 2012 have been notionally awarded until such time that the Company is out of closeperiod.
2 Anthony Buckinghamcontinues to hold his LTIP award under the 2008 LTIP on amended performance conditions, revised toreect substantially the same terms and conditions as those under the rules of the 2011 LTIP and as set out on page 24 of this report.
The table below sets out the direct and indirect interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company as at 29 April 2013: Number of Percentage of Ordinary voting share 1 Director Shares capital Michael Hibberd 375,000 0.15% 2 Anthony Buckingham 85,040,340 32.97% Paul Atherton 2,390,000 0.93% Gregory Turnbull 500,070 0.19% John McLeod 20,000 0.01% Mark Erwin 00.00% Carmen Rodriguez 00.00% Sir Michael Wilkes 00.00% 1 Includes Exchangeable Shares.
2 Anthony Buckinghams Ordinary Shares include the Ordinary Shares held by Albion as at the date of this document, a company owned and controlled by Anthony Buckingham.
There have been no changes in the interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company between the end of the financial year and 29 April 2013.
Notes: On exercise of each option, the holder is entitled to receive the 100 pence per share dividend paid in August 2010.
The final exercise prices were converted into GB pounds sterling on the Companys reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the LSE using the exchange rate in effect on thatdate.
No options were granted or lapsed during the year under the Replacement Scheme.
The closing share price on 31 December 2012 was 189.6 pence.
During the year the highest closing share price was 218.8 pence per share and the lowest closing price was 115.1 pence per share.
This report was approved by the Board on29 April 2013 and signed on its behalf by: JOHN MCLEOD CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 29APRIL 2013 HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 30 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ADDRESS FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, as summarised CHAIRMAN below, were reviewed during 2012.
The review involved consideration During the year the focus has been on the acquisition of an interest in of developments in governance matters and goodpractice in other OML 30, Nigeria, and the sale of the Companys Kurdistan interests.
The Terms of Reference oftheCommittee are The Audit Committee played an important role in overseeing available on the Companys website www.
potential risks and controls involved with the acquisition and the disposition and nancing thereof.
In addition to this, the Committee RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE carried out its normal duties such as reviewing financial reports and debating its approach to risk and internal controls.
The Terms of Reference set out the responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
These include: The report below sets out details of the Audit Committees to monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including responsibilities, how it operated during the year, business reviewed at annual and half-yearly reports and any other formal meetings and information on the audit process and external auditors.
announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: review and challenge, where necessary, the consistency of and 2013 promises to be a year of change in the regulatory environment any changes to accounting policies, methods used to account affecting audit committees.
In line with expected developments, the for significant or unusual transactions, whether the Company Audit Committee will be reviewing proposed changes to going has followed appropriate accounting standards and clarity of concern statements stemming from the Sharman Report and will be disclosures in the Companys financial reports: implementing provisions to strengthen audit committee reporting as to review and approve the annual audit plan: required by amendments to the Code.
to review the findings of the audit with the external auditor: to review the Groups budgets: MICHAEL J. HIBBERD to consider the establishment of an internal audit function: CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE to review the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems, including review of the Groups risk matrix: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors and review the effectiveness of the external audit process: MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review and removal of external auditors and approve the Attendance at meetings 5 meetings held external auditors remuneration: oversee the selection process for new auditors: Michael Hibberd, Chairman 5 to assess annually the external auditors independence taking 1 Carmen Rodriguez 5 into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements John McLeod 5 including reviewing the policy on provision of non-audit Sir Michael Wilkes 5 services: t o review whistle-blowing arrangements and the Companys 1 Carmen Rodriguez replaced Salim Macki in March 2012. procedures to prevent bribery and corruption: and to report to the Board on its proceedings, identifying any All members of the Audit Committee, including the Chairman, are matters in respect of which it considers that action or independent Non-Executive Directors.
Other members of the Board improvement is needed and making recommendations as to may be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Audit Plc regularly attend Audit Committee meetings and the Audit Committee also meets with KPMG Audit Plc, the external auditors, HOW THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OPERATES without management present from time to time.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year to discharge its responsibilities and also engages in numerous ad hoc The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member of, discussions.
The Audit Committee has a planned annual cycle with and chairs, the Audit Committee, which is not in line with the scheduled meetings xed at appropriate times during the financial recommendations made in the Code.
However, the Board continues reporting calendar.
The agenda is agreed with the Audit Committee to believe that his recent and relevant financial experience, including Chairman and includes a number of standard items, such as his experience in corporate financial matters, is invaluable in consideration of the financial statements and audit process.
Other supporting the Audit Committee in performing its role.
items may be added to the agenda by the Chairman, CFO, auditors or other members of the Committee.
An aide memoire checklist is used to ensure that the Committee fully covers its remit during the year.
The Chairman ensures that there is adequate time for discussions and members receive full brieng papers before each meeting.
The performance of the Audit Committee was reviewed during the year as part of the external Board performance review and it was concluded that the operation of the Audit Committee continued to remain effective.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 31 AUDIT PROCESS AND AUDIT INFORMATION WHAT DID THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DO The auditors prepare an Audit Plan for their review of the full year DURING THE YEAR?
and half year financial statements.
The Audit Plan sets out the scope of the audit, areas to be targeted and audit timetable.
This plan is During the year the Audit Committee considered the following reviewed and agreed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Following main items of business: their review the auditors present their findings to the Audit Committee for discussion.
No major areas of concern were FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING highlighted by the auditors during the year although they drew attention to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the ongoing Review and approval of working capital reports, review of going tax dispute in Uganda.
significant issues considered in relation to the concern and budget assumptions.
Review of and discussions financial statements include the Shoreline transaction, the disputes relating to the audit report prepared by KPMG.
Review and with the Ugandan government and Tullow Oil plc in relation to approval of the financial statements, review of the Annual Report disposal of the Groups Ugandan Assets, litigation with a former and Accounts and half-yearly report.
Review of the various CEO, and the valuation of intangible exploration assets and property, corporate documents issued during the year concerning the plant and equipment.
Actions taken to address these issues were to Acquisition and Miran asset disposal in Kurdistan.
Update on ensure that they were accounted for appropriately in accordance with recent accounting issues.
EU IFRS and fully disclosed in the accounts.
FINANCE Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Review of convertible bond arrangements and matters related relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are to a potential rights offering.
Discussions in respect of various unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to Company assets.
have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL aware of that information.
Discussions on approach to risk and compliance requirements, EXTERNAL AUDITORS AND AUDITOR review of the internal control report, identication of one INDEPENDENCE weakness and conrmation that procedures to mitigate against The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance of the this are in place.
Identication of new risks arising from the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, disposal of interests in Kurdistan and acquisition of assets in KPMG Audit Plc, when performing their role in the Groups reporting Nigeria.
Review of related party transactions.
Review of the to shareholders.
The Audit Committee has in place policies on: nature and scope of the whistle-blower policy.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: AUDIT AND EXTERNAL AUDITOR employment of former employees of the external auditor: and use of the external auditors for non-audit services.
Review of audit findings report, audit plan and management representation letter.
These policies are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain in line Consideration of the need for an internal audit function.
Review with ethical standards published by the Accounting Practices Board of audit and related fees for KPMG.
and best practice with appropriate amendments made.
OTHER The Audit Committees annual review of the independence of the external auditors includes consideration of information provided by Review of charitable donations, conrmation that there had the external auditors on policies and processes for maintaining been no political donations.
Review of the Committees Terms independence and monitoring compliance with current regulatory of Reference and approval of amendments concerning reference requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners to the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee.
Overview of the and staff.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit acquisition of an interest in OML 30, Nigeria, and disposal of partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the interests in Miran.
Discussions concerning the ongoing Ugandan current audit partner has been in place forve years.
there will be a new audit partner starting for the 2013 audit.
In addition, in its assessment of the auditors independence, the levels of AUDITORS non-audit services provided by the external auditors were reviewed INTERNAL AUDIT by the Audit Committee.
At present there is no internal audit function established.
The Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit function in 2011 As well as considering independence and objectivity of the external and again in 2012.
The Committee advised the Board that it believed auditor, their overall performance and effectiveness is reviewed the Company maintains current control systems that are effective and regularly by the Audit Committee.
This review considers the audit thatmanagement oversightis sufficient to highlight any areas of planning process, quality of the audit report, feedback from weaknesses in the financial reporting systems.
The need for an management and from KPMG Audit Plc as part of their own control internal audit function is reviewed at least annually.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 32 REPORT OF THE AUDIT REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED COMMITTEE The policy on provision of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditor sets down which non-audit services it would be unacceptable for the auditor to provide.
These include: MEMBERS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS preparation of accounting records and financial statements that will be subject to external audit: Attendance at meetings 4 meetings held actuarial services: Michael Hibberd, Chairman 4 investment advice: Anthony Buckingham 4 secondments to management or financial reporting positions that Sir Michael Wilkes 4 involve decision making: advice to the Remuneration Committee: and The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are v aluation services.
External advisers may also be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The Nomination Proposals for the external auditors to carry out all other non-audit Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other services are pre-approved by the Audit Committee to ensure Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
Other may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
accounting rms are used for the provision of non-audit services The Nomination Committee meets formally at least once a year and wherever possible except where the knowledge and expertise of the also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
external auditors means that it is more efficient and effective for them to carry out the work.
This is on the overriding principle that the The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee, as external auditors independence will remain unaffected.
In 2012 summarised below, were reviewed during 2012.
Part of that non-audit services included fees for transaction services which largely related to the Acquisition and were reviewed by the Audit reviewinvolved consideration of developments in governance mattersand good practice in other listed companies.
Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website www.
Fees billed by KPMG Audit Plc, the Companys auditors and its associates, during 2011 and 2012, are summarised below: 2012 2011 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION $ $ COMMITTEE Audit and audit-related services Group audit of annual statements The Terms of Reference set out the responsibilities of the and review of interim statements 300,643 246,307 Nomination Committee.
These include: Audit of subsidiary financial to review the structure, size and composition including the statements 49,555 17,431 balance of knowledge, skills and experience of the Board in order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the 350,198 263,738 orderly succession of Directors: Non-audit services to give full consideration to succession planning for Directors Tax compliance 15,854 14,318 and other senior executives: Advisory 41,884 57,187 to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for 1 Transaction services 1,244,936 appointment or reappointment as Directors taking into 1,302,674 71,505 account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the need for sector and gender representation: 1 The majority of 2012 costs relating to the acquisition of an interest in OML 30. to review outside directorships and time commitments of NonExecutive Directors: The current auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have been the Companys to ensure that on appointment Non-Executive Directors receive auditors since 2008, when the Company listed on the LSE, and a formal letter of appointment setting out what is expected of previously were auditors to HOC.
them in terms of time commitment, Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings: Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors make recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates and being satisfied that the auditors remain independent and effective for the Senior Independent Director and membership of the in their role, the Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to Audit and Remuneration Committees, in consultation with the carry out a tender process this year.
The Audit Committee therefore Committee Chairmen: and has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, KPMG make recommendations to the Board annually on the reAudit Plc, be reappointed.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their appointment of any Non-Executive Directors, giving due willingness to continue as auditors.
Ordinary resolutions to regard to their performance and ability to continue to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and authorise contribute to the Board.
the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 33 APPOINTMENT PROCEDURE WHAT DID THE NOMINATION The Nomination Committee ensures, amongst other things, that COMMITTEE DO DURING THE YEAR?
there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
Recommendations are made The following main items of business were considered by the objectively taking into account the balance of skills, knowledge and Nomination Committee during the year: independence of a candidate.
The Nomination Committee will ensure that candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are RESULTS OF BOARD EVALUATION considered and take into account the diversity and gender make-up of the Board.
It is recognised that use of outside advertising or external Consideration of results of the Board evaluation in relation to search consultants will produce a wider range of candidates and the Board composition and support foradditional independent NonCommitteemay use these to facilitate the recruitment process as Executive Directors.
APPOINTMENTS AND RESIGNATION OF During the year the Nomination Committee discussed and DIRECTORS considered the make-up and skill set of the Board.
The Committee also took into account the need for diversity and gender mix on the Discussions in respect of candidates for new Non-Executive Board and it was important that any candidate could demonstrate Directors, including consideration ofCarmen Rodriguez and that they had sufficient time to dedicate to their role.
Following due diligence and meetings with Carmen Rodriguez, approval of recommendation to the Board of the Given the international nature of the Companys operations and its appointment ofCarmen Rodriguez as a Non-Executive Director.
very specic requirements it was not felt appropriate to use an Approval of the recommendation forCarmen Rodriguezs external search consultancy or open advertising.
Instead, appointment as a member of the Audit and Remuneration recommendations were sought through an extensive network of Committees.
Following meetings with Mark Erwin, contacts.
A number of candidates from a wide range of backgrounds recommendation to the Board to appoint him as an additional were considered by the Committee and a short list prepared.
Of Non-Executive Director and appointment to the CSR and Antithese, the Nomination Committee recommended Carmen Rodriguez Bribery and Corruption Committees.
and Mark Erwin for appointment as Non-Executive Directors.
Accepting the resignation of Salim Macki from the Board and its Committees and recording of thanks toMr.
Macki for his work as DIVERSITY AND GENDER a Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee supports the importance of having diversity of thought and representation on its Board.
However, in INDUCTION terms of gender, the Company operates in an environment with low representation of women at all levels of the industry.
In some Consideration of induction process for new Directors and in countries of operation cultural differences in particular mean that particular identication of courses to enable new Directors to women are under-represented in the workforce.
In order to address familarise themselves with the oil industry.
this, the Company operates equal opportunity policies in all its areas of activity and seeks to encourage the employment of women.
The REPORTING aim is that over time, women as a percentage of the workforce will increase and lead to a larger pool of potential talent from which to Review and approval of the disclosures made in the Nomination recruit to senior positions.
We have developed information systems in Committee Report in the Companys Annual Report.
order to collate information on female representation and pay within Heritage which will help to inform future policy developments.
The SUCCESSION PL ANNING first female Board member, Carmen Rodriguez, was appointed in March 2012.
In addition, there are already a number of senior women Review of succession planning for the CEO and agreement that in posts throughout the Group with direct lines of communication to the Companys plans in this respect were valid and remained in members of the Board.
The Board has discussed at some length the place.
Davies Report and succession planning, as a result of which it will actively seek to have female candidates to consider when making REVIEW OF COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Board appointments.
ANDCOMMITTEES A diversity policy has been approved by the Boardwhich states that Consideration of feedback from shareholders on composition of theCompanywill work towards further female appointments to the Board in respect of independent Non-Executive Directors and senior management positions and the Board.
The Company will the Audit Committee.
continue to encourage increasing diversity across operations and support equal opportunity policies across the Group.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Nomination Committee is responsible for the Board Diversity Review and approval of the Committees Terms of Reference.
Policy and monitoring its progress.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 34 REPORT OF THE RESERVES COMMITTEE WHAT DID THE RESERVES COMMITTEE DO DURING THE YEAR?
MEMBERS OF THE RESERVES COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS During the year the Reserves Committee considered the following items of business: Attendance at meetings 4 meetings held John McLeod, Chairman 4 COMPETENT PERSONS REPORT Michael Hibberd 4 Paul Atherton 4 Consideration and approval of two CPRs prepared by RPS Energy Brian Smith, VP Exploration 1 Consultants Limited and approval of the press release announcing the publication of the CPRs.
Under its Terms of Reference the Reserves Committee will have at least EVALUATION OF PROJECTS three members, at least one of which will have relevant technical experience.
The Chairman will be an independent Non-Executive Presentation by management of overview of evaluations for Director.
The Reserves Committee engages in numerous ad hoc existing projects as well as for the acquisition of a majority interest discussions and meets formally at least once a year.
External advisers in OML 30, through Shoreline.
may also be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
PETROLEUM ASSETS The Terms of Reference of the Committee, which are summarised below, are available on the Companys website www.
Presentation by management of overview of OML 30 licence, Nigeria, and Zapadno Chumpasskoye Field, Russia, in the CPR.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE RESERVES Review of report on the Miran Field, Kurdistan, in the CPR.
COMMITTEE INDEPENDENT RESERVES EVALUATORS The primary function of the Reserves Committee is to assist the Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities generally with Consideration of the appointment of independent reserve respect to the oil and natural gas reserves evaluation process evaluators to prepare CPRs in connection with the proposed and public disclosure of reserves data and related information acquisition of OML 30 and disposal of the Companys interests in connection with oil and gas activities.
In order to do this the in the Miran Field, Kurdistan andwhich alsocovered existing Committee carries out the responsibilities set out in its Terms of projects.
These include: to review, at least annually, the Companys procedures REPORTING relating to disclosure of information with respect to oil and gas activities, including its procedures for complying with any Review of and recommendation to the Board to approve the disclosure requirements and restrictions: reserves and resources information contained in the Companys to review annually the qualications and independence of the Annual Report.
independent qualied reserves evaluator s to be appointed or reappointed by the Board and, in the case of any proposed change in the independent qualied reserves evaluator s, determine the reasons for the proposed change and whether there have been any disputes between the appointed qualied reserves evaluator s and management of the Company: review the content of a any statement of reserves data and other information, and b any report of the independent qualied reserves evaluator s and make a recommendation to the Board on approval of such information: and to review any public disclosure or regulatory lings with respect to any reserves evaluation and oil and gas activities.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 35 REPORT OF THE ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION COMMITTEE WHAT DID THE ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION COMMITTEE DO DURING MEMBERS OF THE ANTI-BRIBERY AND THE YEAR?
CORRUPTION COMMITTEE AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS During the year the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee considered the following main items of business: Attendance at meetings 2 meetings held Sir Michael Wilkes, Chairman 2 REPORTING Michael Hibberd 2 Paul Atherton 2 Review and approval of the anti-bribery and corruption disclosures 1 Mark Erwin 1 in the Companys Annual Report.
1 Mark Erwin was appointed to the Committee in May 2012.
REGULATION Under its Terms of Reference the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review of any changes to applicable anti-bribery and corruption Committee will consist of at least three members, consisting of legislation.
Directors or other senior management.
The Chairman of the Board will not be the Chair of the Committee.
The Anti-Bribery and EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES Corruption Committee oversees the Groups anti-bribery programme and its ethical policies and practices.
The Committee meets formally Review of procedures established and education programmes in at least once a year.
External advisers may also be invited to attend place that had been adopted.
The Committee concluded these were meetings as and when required.
working well but would continue to be monitored.
Discussions relating to the budget for educational purposes.
The Terms of Reference of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee, as summarised below, were reviewed during 2012 and MEMBERSHIP are available on the Companys website www.
Consideration of membership of the Committee and approval of the appointment of Mark Erwin to the Committee as recommended by RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ANTI-BRIBERY AND the Board.
CORRUPTION COMMITTEE RISK ASSESSMENT The Terms of Reference set out the responsibilities of the AntiBribery and Corruption Committee.
These include: Review of proposed acquisition of an interest in OML 30 in Nigeria to maintain the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy and any potential concerns.
Review of due diligence undertaken and framework in line with best practice and the appropriate agreement that partners, employees and contractors in Nigeria would international standards and guidelines: adhere to the Companys anti-bribery policies.
to maintain the Companys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code of Conduct: TERMS OF REFERENCE to maintain the Companys anti-bribery and whistle-blowing procedures: Review of the Committees Terms of Reference.
to monitor related information reported through the Companys whistle-blowing systems and other communications UK BRIBERY ACT AND CODE OF ETHICS mechanisms and, where necessary, make policy and systems The Company has a zero tolerance policy to bribery which extends to enhancement recommendations to the Board: employees, agents, partners and contractors.
to assess and monitor bribery and corruption risks in the territories in which the Company operates and plans to operate The Company has carried out a number of actions in response to the in the future: introduction of the UK Bribery Act which became effective in July to assess and monitor bribery and corruption risks relating to 2011.
During 2012 the Company continued in its anti-bribery new projects and major transactions involving the Company: educational programmes and undertook an annual risk assessment.
to foster knowledge sharing about bribery prevention around Furthermore, its anti-bribery procedures are being integrated into the Group, with peer group companies and interested third Shoreline.
parties such as non-governmental organisations: to ensure that employees, contractors, agents and suppliers As a result of the actions taken, the Company has developed robust are fully aware of the Companys anti-bribery policies and bribery prevention procedures that include: prevention systems particularly whistle-blowing procedures : and rigorous financial management systems that aim to prevent to ensure that the Companys Annual and CSR Reports and instances of bribery: website contain information that is a fair and coherent reection an established whistle-blowing system to assist employees and of its anti-bribery approach, policies, systems and performance.
contractors in reporting any related concerns they may have: training and human resource systems to ensure employees and contractors are aware of Company procedures concerning the Code of Ethics, corporate entertaining and related policies: HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 36 REPORT OF THE ANTI-BRIBERY REPORT OF THE CORPORATE AND CORRUPTION COMMITTEE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED COMMITTEE internal communications systems to disseminate and inform employees and contractors on Company policies and procedures: review of operations and risk assessment: MEMBERS OF THE CSR COMMITTEE AND regular consultation and discussion with peer group companies, ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS investors, non-governmental organisations and regulatory authorities in the territories in which it operates: and Attendance at meetings 2 meetings held regular review of the Companys related policies, processes and Paul Atherton, Chairman 2 performance by senior management, the CSR Committee, Audit Anthony Buckingham 2 Committee and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee.
Michael Hibberd 2 1 Mark Erwin 1 The Anti-Bribery and CorruptionCommittee is aware of the need to keep the momentum of the initial launch in place.
Attention in the 1 Mark Erwin was appointed to the Committee in May 2012. forthcoming year will be to ensure processes are properly embedded throughout the Group, training of new employees and refresher The CSR Committee meets formally at least once a year and also training for existing employees as appropriate.
In particular attention engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
External advisers may also will be focused on the roll out of the Groups anti-bribery practices to be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
its operations in Nigeria following the acquisition of a majority interest in OML 30 through Shoreline.
The programme will be The Terms of Reference of the CSR Committee, as summarised monitored and reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate.
below, were reviewed during 2012 and are available on the Companys website www.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CSR COMMITTEE The Terms of Reference set out the responsibilities of the CSR Committee.
These include: to maintain the Companys CSR Policy Framework in line with best practice and appropriate international standards and guidelines: to consider the Companys risks associated with bribery, including reviewing the Companys policies and systems and ensuring that risk assessments are conducted when the Company commences business in a new country: to receive reports and review activities from executives and specialist groups managing CSR matters across the Companys operation: to develop a framework for submission, assessment and approval of discretionary and obligatory community, social, educational and charitable expenditures undertaken by the Company worldwide: to prepare an annual Group CSR Report and ensure it reects the Companys CSR strategy, policies, systems and performance, is coherent and published in a timely manner: to consider and propose an annual budget for CSR activities as part of the overall Group budget process: and to review the internal CSR programme of the Company and ensure it has the appropriate standing within the Company.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company made charitable, social and community-related donations during the year totalling c. $971,000 2011 $700,000.
The Group has undertaken a wide range of community projects, including public health, education, environment, public facility and community relations based programmes, further details of which can be found in the separate CSR Report.
In line with Group policy, no political donations were made during 2012 2011 nil.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 37 APPENDIX 1 COMPANY HISTORY AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company was incorporated as Heritage Oil Limited on 6February 2008 in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, the Jersey Companies Law to become the ultimate holding company of the Group.
Heritage Oil Limited changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
The Company has had a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the LSE since March 2008.
The Group has two share classes trading: Ordinary Shares issued by the Company which trade on the Main Market of the LSE symbol HOIL and Exchangeable Shares issued by Heritage Oil Corporation HOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which trade both on the Main Market of the LSE symbol HOX and on the Toronto Stock Exchange symbol HOC.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, development and production company with an international focus.
It has producing assets in Nigeria and Russia and exploration assets in Tanzania, Papua New Guinea, Malta, Pakistan andLibya.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiaries which are proled on page 16of the Financial Statements Report.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Business Review includes the financial performance during the financial year, future developments, performance of the Group and principal risks and uncertainties.
A review of the Companys business is incorporated by reference, forming part of this report, and includes information which can be found in the reports noted below: the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review within the Annual Review on pages 12 to 31: and the CSR Report.
The cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on page 37 of the Annual Review forms part of this report and is incorporated by reference.
Important events occuring since the end of the year are detailed in the Financial Statements on page 37.
Likely future developments are discussed in the Annual Review on pages 12 to 31.
CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS The Company confirms that it is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid except those disclosed below: the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the Remuneration Report: the LTIP rules contain a provision whereby in the event of a change of control all awards will vest in their entirety subject to the achievement or otherwise of the performance conditions: and bridge facility.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 38 APPENDIX 2 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE As a Premium Listed company on the LSE, the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The provisions of the Code, and disclosures in relation to how the Company has applied these provisions, is set out below.
It is the intention that, by covering routine disclosures in this appendix concerning items that change little from year to year, the main body of the Corporate Governance Report will focus on key items of importance to the Board and Committees during the year.
LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
LEADERSHIP These responsibilities are set A.
1 out in the Schedule of Matters The Role of the Board Every company should be headed by an effective board, Reserved for the Board, which are summarised on page 9 of this which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
The boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The board should set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The board should set the companys values and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
All directors must act in what they consider to be the best Directors are made aware of their interests of the company, consistent with their statutory duties.
statutory duties on joining the Board.
1.1 The board should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge A revised Schedule of Matters Page 9 its duties effectively.
There should be a formal schedule of was reviewed and adopted early matters specically reserved for its decision.
The annual in 2012. report should include a statement of how the board operates, including a high-level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated to management.
Board procedures are well Page 13 established and details of the Boards operation are provided in this report.
1.2 The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy Details of members of the Board Pages 6 to 7 chairman where there is one, the chief executive, the and their roles are set out in this senior independent director and the chairmen and members reportand the table showing of the board committees.
It should also set out the number number and attendance at Board of meetings of the board and its committees and individual meetings is shown on page 12. attendance by directors.
Attendance at Committee Pages 20 to 36 meetings is shown in the respective Committee Reports.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 39 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
1.3 The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover The Company recognises the in respect of legal action against its directors.
potential personal liabilities to which the Directors are subject and believes that it is appropriate to protect Directors from innocent errors or emissions.
A Directors and Officers Liability insurance policy is maintained to provide the Directors with an indemnity under certain circumstances.
Directors are not covered where they have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Under the Articles, Directors are indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
2 Division of Responsibilities Michael Hibberd is the Chairman There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the of the Board and Anthony head of the company between the running of the board Buckingham is the CEO.
and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not A summary of the separate duties Page 10 be exercised by the same individual.
The division of of the Chairman and CEO is responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive provided inthis report.
should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
3 The Chairman These responsibilities are reected Page 10 The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board in the written responsibilities of and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The chairman is responsible for setting the boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The chairman should also promote a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of nonexecutive directors in particular and ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The chairman should ensure effective communication with shareholders.
3.1 The chairman should, on appointment, meet the The Chairman was considered to independence criteria set out in B.
A chief be independent on appointment.
executive should not go on to be chairman of the same company.
If, exceptionally, a board decides that a chief executive should become chairman, the board should consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment and in the next annual report.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 40 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A.
4 Non-executive directors These responsibilities are set out As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonin the Non-Executive Directors executive directors should constructively challenge and letters of appointment.
help develop proposals on strategy.
Non-executive directors should scruntinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
4.1 The board should appoint one of the independent nonSir Michael Wilkes is the Senior Page 10 executive directors to be the senior independent director.
Details of The senior independent director should be available to the role of the Senior Independent shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Director are provided in this the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance report.
director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
4.2 The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive The Chairman and Nondirectors without the executives present.
Led by the senior Executive Directors met and independent director, the non-executive directors should spoke regularly during the year, meet without the chairman present at least annually to and on an ad hoc basis, without appraise the chairmans performance and on such other the Executive Directors being occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, appraised the Chairmans performance as part of the annual performance evaluation undertaken during the year.
4.3 Where the directors have concerns which cannot be The Board Charter sets out resolved about the running of the company or a proposed Directors responsibilities relating action, they should ensure that their concerns are recorded to the operation of the Board and in the board minutes.
On resignation, a non-executive conduct of Directors.
It includes director should provide a written statement to the the right to ensure Directors chairman, for circulation to the board, if they have such concerns are recorded in Board concerns.
minutes and that Non-Executive Directors, on resignation, should provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 41 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES Page 8 B EFFECTIVENESS Details of the skill sets and B.
1 The Composition of the Board experience of the Directors are provided inthis report, together The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the with the split between Executive Directors, independent and company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The board should be of a sufficient size that the requirements of the business can be met and that changes to the boards composition and that of its committees can be managed without undue disruption and should not be so large as to be unwieldy.
The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
The value of ensuring that committee membership Committee membership was is refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on reviewed by the Nomination particular individuals should be taken into account in Committee and individual deciding chairmanship and membership of committees.
No one other than the committee chairman and members is This is reected in the Terms of entitled to be present at a meeting of the nomination, audit Reference of all the Committees or remuneration committee, but others may attend at the which may be found on invitation of the committee.
1.1 The board should identify in the annual report each The independence of Directors is Page 9 non-executive director it considers to be independent.
The board should determine whether the director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The board should state its reasons if it determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the director: has been an employee of the company or group within the last five years: has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the company: has received or receives additional remuneration from the company apart from a directors fee, participates in the companys share option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the companys pension scheme: has close family ties with any of the companys advisers, directors or senior employees: holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: represents a significant shareholder: or has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 42 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
1.2 Except for smaller companies, at least half the board, There are eight Directors in total.
excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive The Board considers that four of directors determined by the board to be independent.
A the Non-Executive Directors and smaller company should have at least two independent nonthe Chairman are independent.
2 Appointments to the Board These responsibilities are part There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent of the Nomination Committees procedure for the appointment of new directors to the remit and are included in board.
Appointments are made on The search for board candidates should be conducted, and merit and the Nomination appointments made, on merit against objective criteria Committee considers diversity as with due regard for the benets of diversity on the board, part of this process.
planning is regularly discussed at The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for Nomination Committee meetings.
orderly succession for appointments to the board and to senior management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the board.
2.1 There should be a nomination committee which should The Report of the Nomination Pages 32 to 33 lead the process for board appointments and make Committee is detailed in this recommendations to the board.
of the nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors.
The chairman or an independent non-executive director should chair the committee, but the chairman should not chair the nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The nomination committee should make available its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority delegated to it by the board.
2.2 The nomination committee should evaluate the balance The Nomination Committee will of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on undertake a review of the skills, the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare experience, independence and a description of the role and capabilities required for a knowledge on a regular basis and particular appointment.
prepare a description of the role and capabilities for any identied appointments.
2.3 Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified Non-Executive Directors are Page 8 terms subject to re-election and to statutory provisions appointed for specified terms relating to the removal of a director.
Any term beyond six subject to annual re-election years for a non-executive director should be subject to by shareholders.
The length of particularly rigorous review, and should take into account tenure of the Non-Executive the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
Directors is set out in this report.
2.4 A separate section of the annual report should describe the The Report of the Nomination Pages 32 to 33 work of the nomination committee, including the process it Committee is detailed in this has used in relation to board appointments.
should be given if neither an external search consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the appointment of a chairman or a non-executive director.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 43 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
3 Commitment All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
3.1 For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination The Nomination Committee will committee should prepare a job specication, including an prepare a job specication in the assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising event of the appointment of a new the need for availability in the event of crises.
other significant commitments should be disclosed to the board before appointment and included in the annual The Chairmans other significant report.
Changes to such commitments should be reported commitments are disclosed to to the board as they arise, and their impact explained in the the Board and may be found in next annual report.
the Directors biographies in this report.
3.2 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive The terms and conditions of directors should be made available for inspection.
The appointment of the Non-Executive letter of appointment should set out the expected time Directors are available on request.
Non-executive directors should undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Their other significant commitments should be disclosed to the board before appointment, with a broad indication of the time involved and the board should be informed of subsequent changes.
The letters of appointment of Page 14 the Non-Executive Directors set out the terms of appointment, including the agreed expected time commitment.
This is then assessed as part of performance evaluation to ensure they continue to be able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
An example of a Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment may be found in this report.
Prior to appointment, all Directors are expected to disclose their other time commitments in order to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to full their role as a Director.
3.3 The board should not agree to a full time executive director The policy on Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive directorship in taking on external roles is set a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a out in the Board Charter.
is the Companys policy that Executive Directors are permitted to accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they have prior permission of the Chairman.
However, an Executive Director will not be permitted to take on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 44 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES Page 14 B.
4 Development The induction programme put All directors should receive induction on joining the board in place for the two new Nonand should regularly update and refresh their skills and Executive Directors appointed knowledge.
during the year is described in this report The chairman should ensure that the directors continually.
update their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with All Directors are actively the company required to full their role both on the board encouraged to question, and on board committees.
The company should provide examine and review the Groups the necessary resources for developing and updating its operations and to undertake directors knowledge and capabilities.
training applicable to their roles.
To function effectively, all directors need appropriate Non-Executive Directors develop knowledge of the company and access to its operations an understanding of the views andstaff.
of major shareholders through various channels, including briengs by the Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director and by information provided at Board meetings on investor relations strategy.
All Directors have the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge on a regular basis through briengs at Board meetings on issues including changes in law and regulation, corporate governance, financial reporting and operational matters.
Directors are in regular communication with senior executives through both formal and informal ad hoc meetings, to ensure an exchange of knowledge and experience between management and Directors.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 45 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
4.1 The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a It is part of the Chairmans Page 10 full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board.
written responsibilities to ensure As part of this, the directors should avail themselves of that new Directors receive a full, opportunities to meet major shareholders.
formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Upon joining the Board a Director will participate in an induction programme covering the principles and legal and regulatory duties required of them.
This training is tailored to an individuals needs, taking into account their qualications and experience.
In addition, meetings are arranged with senior management to enable NonExecutive Directors to develop a detailed understanding of the Companys business, its strategy and the key risks and challenges facing the Company.
The induction process for the two Page 14 new Directors who joined the Board during the year, Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin, is described in this report.
4.2 The chairman should regularly review and agree with each The Chairman regularly reviews director their training and development needs.
the training and development needs of Directors as part of the annual evaluation process.
5 Information and Support The Chairman, supported by the The board should be supplied in a timely manner with CEO and CFO, ensures that all information in a form and of a quality appropriate to Directors receive accurate, timely enable it to discharge its duties.
and clear information to support informed discussions at Board The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors meetings.
receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Management has an obligation to provide such information but directors See disclosure under B.
5.2 below should seek clarification or amplication where necessary.
in relation to the Company Under the direction of the chairman, the company Secretary.
secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information ows within the board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating and assisting with professional development as required.
The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board through the chairman on all governance matters.
5.1 The board should ensure that directors, especially nonThe right of all Directors to executive directors, have access to independent professional access independent professional advice at the companys expense where they judge it advice whenever it is required necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
and at the Companys expense is Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to written into the Board Charter.
The Terms of Reference of each of the Board Committees sets out that they must be provided with sufficient resources for them to undertake their duties.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 46 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
5.2 All directors should have access to the advice and services Given the size of the Company, of the company secretary, who is responsible to the board the Board feels that it is in the for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both shareholders best interests not the appointment and removal of the company secretary to employ a full-time Company should be a matter for the board as a whole.
Secretary at this stage in the Companys development.
The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The Board and its Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company Secretary or its nominee.
The other duties that would normally be carried out by the Company Secretary, such as the provision of information ows to the Board, are dealt with by the Chairman, the CEO or CFO or their nominee.
In terms of corporate governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, a rm of registered foreign lawyers and solicitors with offices in North America and in London.
The Board monitors the provision of company secretarial duties and takes any action as appropriate to ensure its requirements are met.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
6 Evaluation The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The chairman should act on the results of the performance evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the board and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the board or seeking the resignation of directors.
Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and any other duties.
6.1 The board should state in the annual report how A review of how performance Page 15 performance evaluation of the board, its committees and its evaluation has been carried out individual directors has been conducted.
may be found in this report.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 47 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES B.
6.2 Evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be In 2012 the performance review externally facilitated at least every three years.
A statement was conducted internally by should be made available of whether an external facilitator means of interviews by the has any other connection with the company.
The last external facilitated performance review was carried out by the Group in 2010.
A further externally facilitated evaluation is taking place in 2013.
6.3 The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent The evaluation of the Chairmans director, should be responsible for performance evaluation performance is conducted by the of the chairman, taking into account the views of executive Non-Executive Directors, led by directors.
Sir Michael Wilkes as the Senior Independent Director, and also takes into account the views of the Executive Directors.
7 Re-election All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
7.1 All directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject With regard to retirement and to annual election by shareholders.
All other directors re-election of Directors, the should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Company is governed by its annual general meeting after their appointment, and to reArticles, the Code and the Jersey election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Under the Non-executive directors who have served longer than nine Articles, Directors have the power years should be subject to annual re-election.
The names to appoint a Director to the Board of directors submitted for election or re-election should during the year but any person be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any so appointed must stand for other relevant information to enable shareholders to take an election at the next AGM.
Having informed decision on their election.
considered feedback and investor sentiment during the year it was agreed that with effect from the 2012 AGM, all Directors will retire and stand for re-election annually.
Directors re-elected at the AGM will be appointed for a one-year term.
7.2 The board should set out to shareholders in the papers The Notice of Annual General accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director Meeting includes in the notes why they believe an individual should be elected.
The accompanying the resolutions to chairman should confirm to shareholders when proposing elect Non-Executive Directors re-election that, following formal performance evaluation, why the Board believes that the individuals performance continues to be effective and individual should be elected.
to demonstrate commitment to the role.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 48 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES C. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The boards responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
C. 1.1 The directors should explain in the annual report their The responsibility statements Pages 8 to 9 responsibility for preparing the annual report and accounts of the Directors and the and there should be a statement by the auditors about their Independent Auditors Report reporting responsibilities.
may be found in the Financial Statements.
C. 1.2 The directors should include in the annual report an A full review and report on the explanation of the basis on which the company generates Companys business model and or preserves value over the longer term the business strategy may be found in the model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Annual Review Report which company.
accompanies this Corporate Governance Report.
C. 1.3 The directors should report in annual and half-yearly A statement on going concern Page 8 financial statements that the business is a going concern, may be found in the Financial with supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Boards responsibilities for The board is responsible for determining the nature risk and internal control are set and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take out in the Schedule of Matters in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should Reserved for the Board.
maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
C. 2.1 The board should, at least annually, conduct a review of the Details of the Groups risk Page 15 effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal management and internal control control systems and should report to shareholders that they systems may be found in this have done so.
The review should cover all material controls, report and further details may including financial, operational and compliance controls.
be found in the Annual Review Report.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
C. 3.1 The board should establish an audit committee of at least The Audit Committee Report Pages 30 to 32 three, or in the case of smaller companies two, independent may be found in thisreport.
In smaller companies the company chairman may be a member of, but not chair, the committee in addition to the independent non-executive directors, provided he or she was considered independent on appointment as chairman.
The board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 49 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES A summary of the Terms of Page 30 C. 3.2 The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set out in written terms of reference and should Reference of the Audit Committee may be found in this report.
include: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company, and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: to review the companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee composed of independent directors, or by the board itself, to review the companys internal control and risk management systems: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: to review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm: and to report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
C. 3.3 The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its The Terms of Reference of the Pages 30 to 32 role and the authority delegated to it by the board, should Audit Committee are available on be made available.
A separate section of the annual report the Companys website should describe the work of the committee in discharging www.
The Report of the Audit Committee can be found in this report.
C. 3.4 The audit committee should review arrangements by which A whistle-blowing policy is in staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns operation across the Group.
Any about possible improprieties in matters of financial feedback from these arrangements reporting or other matters.
The audit committees objective is regularly reviewed by the should be to ensure that arrangements are in place for Audit Committee along with the the proportionate and independent investigation of such operation of the policy.
matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 50 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES C. 3.5 The audit committee should monitor and review the At present there is no internal effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
Where there audit function established.
The is no internal audit function, the audit committee should Audit Committee reviewed consider annually whether there is a need for an internal the need for an internal audit audit function and make a recommendation to the board, function in 2011 and again in and the reasons for the absence of such a function should be 2012.
It concurred with the explained in the relevant section of the annual report.
opinion of the Board, which maintains that the current control systems in place and management oversight are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial reporting systems.
The need for an internal audit function is reviewed at least annually.
C. 3.6 The audit committee should have primary responsibility Information on the external Pages31 to 32 for making a recommendation on the appointment, auditors can be found in this re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
If the board does not accept the audit committees recommendation, it should include in the annual report, and in any papers recommending appointment or reappointment, a statement from the audit committee explaining the recommendation and should set out reasons why the board has taken a different position.
C. 3.7 The annual report should explain to shareholders how, if Disclosures in respect of auditor Pages 31 to 32 the auditor provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity objectivity and independence and independence is safeguarded.
may be found in the Report of the Audit Committee.
D. REMUNERATION Disclosures relating to Pages 20 to 29 D. 1 remuneration and the provisions The Level and Components of Remuneration Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, of Section D of the Code may be found in the Report of the retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should Remuneration Committee.
avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The performance-related elements of executive directors remuneration should be stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
The remuneration committee should judge where to position their company relative to other companies.
But they should use such comparisons with caution, in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance.
They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group, especially when determining annual salary increases.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 51 LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES D. 2 Procedure There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and or chief executive about their proposals relating to the remuneration of other executive directors.
The remuneration committee should also be responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive director remuneration.
Where executive directors or senior management are involved in advising or supporting the remuneration committee, care should be taken to recognise and avoid conicts of interest.
The chairman of the board should ensure that the company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Regular investor reports are made E. 1 to the whole Board to ensure Dialogue with Shareholders There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the that any major issues raised by shareholders are reviewed.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief executive and finance director, the chairman should ensure that all directors are made aware of their major shareholders issues and concerns.
The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever ways are most practical and efficient.
E. 1.1 The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders Regular investor relation reports are communicated to the board as a whole.
The chairman are made to the Board.
should discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders.
Non-executive directors should be offered the opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with major shareholders and should expect to attend meetings if requested by major shareholders.
The senior independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
E. 1.2 The board should state in the annual report the steps Details are provided in this Page 16 they have taken to ensure that members of the board, report.
and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company, for example through direct face-to-face contact, analysts or brokers briengs and surveys of shareholder opinion.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 52 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED LOCATION OF REFERENCE REQUIREMENT COMMENTARY DISCLOSURES E. 2 Constructive Use of the AGM The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
E. 2.1 At any general meeting, the company should propose a Proxy forms allow shareholders separate resolution on each substantially separate issue, to vote for or against a resolution and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM or to withhold their vote.
It is relating to the report and accounts.
For each resolution, made clear on the proxy form proxy appointment forms should provide shareholders with that a vote withheld is not a vote the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against in law and will not be counted as the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form a vote either for or against the and any announcement of the results of a vote should make resolution.
it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
E. 2.2 The company should ensure that all valid proxy The collation of proxy votes is appointments received for general meetings are properly undertaken by the Companys recorded and counted.
For each resolution, where a vote has Registrar, Computershare.
been taken on a show of hands, the company should ensure Information on proxy voting, that the following information is given at the meeting including votes for, against and and made available as soon as reasonably practicable votes withheld, are released to on a website which is maintained by or on behalf of the the market after the AGM or any company: general meeting.
Where voting is the number of shares in respect of which proxy carried out by poll, the Company appointments have been validly made: releases details of the poll voting the number of votes for the resolution: as soon as possible after the the number of votes against the resolution: and meeting.
the number of shares in respect of which the vote was directed to be withheld.
E. 2.3 The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, All the Directors, including remuneration and nomination committees to be available to the chairmen of the Board answer questions at the AGM and for all directors to attend.
Committees, attended the AGM in 2012 and it is intended will do so again in 2013.
E. 2.4 The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM Formal Notice of the AGM, and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 including details of special working days before the meeting.
business, is set out in the Notice of AGM and dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice of AGM will also be available on the Companys websitewww.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GLOSSARY US dollars unless otherwise stated $ AGM Annual General Meeting Albion Energy Limited ALBION API a specic gravity scale developed by the American Petroleum Institute for measuring the relative density of various petroleum liquids, expressed in degrees Articles of Association of the Company ARTICLES BBL BBLS barrel barrels BBLS D OR BOPD barrels per day or barrels of oil per day billion cubic feet BCF 1 BOE barrels of oil equivalent barrels of oil equivalent per day BOE D OR BOEPD CODE UK Corporate Governance Code COMPANY Heritage Oil Plc Corporate Social Responsibility CSR DAVIES REPORT report issued in February 2011 concerning the representation of women on company boards Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR EU European Union FCA Financial Conduct Authority the Company and all of its subsidiaries GROUP, HERITAGE HOC OR CORPORATION Heritage Oil Corporation, incorporated in Canada and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS JERSEY COMPANIES L AW Companies Jersey Law 1991 Key Performance Indicator KPI LSE London Stock Exchange LTI Lost Time Injury Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan metres M 3 M cubic metres MBBLS thousand barrels MMBBLS million barrels MBOE thousands of barrels of oil equivalent millions of barrels of oil equivalent MMBOE MCF thousand cubic feet MCF D thousand cubic feet per day MMBTU million british thermal units MMSCF million standard cubic feet million standard cubic feet per day MMSCF D MMSTB million stock tank barrels not applicable N A OML 30 Oil Mining Licence 30 ORIGINAL PL AN HOC plan PETROLEUM any mineral, oil or relative hydrocarbon including condensate and natural gas liquids and natural gas existing in its natural condition in strata but not including coal or bituminous shale or other stratied deposits from which oil can be extracted by destructive distillation PSA OR PSC production sharing agreement or production sharing contract 1 boes may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation.
A boe conversion ratio of 6 mcf:1 bbl is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not represent a value equivalency at the wellhead.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GLOSSARY CONTINUED UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations REGULATIONS 2008 REPL ACEMENT SCHEME the Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme Shoreline Natural Resources Limited SHORELINE SPECIAL VOTING SHARE Special Voting Share of HOC Total Shareholder Return TSR TSX Toronto Stock Exchange TURNBULL GUIDANCE FRCs guidance on internal control The UK Bribery Act 2010 which was introduced in July 2011 UK BRIBERY ACT UK STEWARDSHIP CODE code introduced by the FRC in July 2010 which aims to enhance the quality of engagement between institutional investors and companies 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP 2011 LTIP 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan CONVERSION TABLE The following table sets forth standard conversions from Standard Imperial Units to the International System of Units or metric units.
To convert from To Multiply by boe mcf 6 mcf cubic metres 28.316 cubic metres cubic feet 35.315 bbls cubic metres 0.159 cubic metres bbls oil 6.290 feet metres 0.305 metres feet 3.281 miles kilometres 1.609 kilometres miles 0.621 acres hectares 0.405 Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 55 NOTES HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 56 NOTES ADVISERS AND FINANCIAL CALENDAR COMPANY SECRETARY AUDITORS OF THE COMPANY Woodbourne Secretaries Jersey Limited KPMG Audit Plc Ordnance House 15 Canada Square 31 Pier Road Canary Wharf St Helier JE4 8PW Jersey London E14 5GL Channel Islands United Kingdom REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY REGISTRARS OF THE COMPANY Ordnance House Computershare Investor Services Jersey Ltd 31 Pier Road Queensway House St Helier JE4 8PW Jersey Hilgrove Street Channel Islands St Helier JE1 1ES Jersey Channel Islands HEAD OFFICE AND DIRECTORS BUSINESS ADDRESS PRI N C IPAL BANKERS O F TH E COMPANY Fourth Floor Standard Bank Europe Windward House Barclays Bank La Route fide la Liberation Investec St Helier JE2 3BQ Jersey Bank of Scotland Europe Channel Islands INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERING UK OFFICE OF THE COMPANY CONSULTANTS TO THE COMPANY 34 Park Street RPS Energy Consultants Limited London W1K 2JD 309 Reading Road United Kingdom Henley-on-Thames Oxfordshire RG9 1EL BROKER AND FINANCIAL ADVISERS United Kingdom J. P. Morgan Securities Limited 25 Bank Street PRESS AGENTS Canary Wharf FTI Consulting London E14 5JP Holborn Gate United Kingdom 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB ENGLISH LEGAL ADVISERS TO THE COMPANY United Kingdom McCarthy Ttrault Registered Foreign Lawyers & Solicitors FINANCIAL CALENDAR 125 Old Broad Street, 26th Floor Group results for the year to 31 December are announced in March London EC2N 1AR April.
The Annual General Meeting is held during the second United Kingdom quarter.
Half year results to 30 June are announced in August.
Additionally, the Group will issue an Interim Management Statement JERSEY LEGAL ADVISERS TO THE COMPANY between 10 weeks after the beginning and six weeks before the end of Mourant Ozannes each half year period.
22 Grenville Street St Helier JE4 8PX Jersey WEBSITE Channel Islands www.
com CANADIAN LEGAL ADVISERS TO THE COMPANY McCarthy Ttrault LLP Suite 3300 4217th Avenue SW Calgary Alberta T2P 4K9 Canada HERITAGEOILPLC.
COM HERITAGE OIL Fourth Floor, Windward House La Route fide la Liberation St Helier JE2 3BQ Jersey Channel Islands T: 44 0 1534 835 400 F: 44 0 1534 835 412
