82 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2012.
In 2012 we continued our focus on ensuring the The year saw the Remuneration Committee maintain its focus on ensuring that implementation of a fair the Group continued to offer competitive remuneration arrangements and as a remuneration policy that result, reviews of the annual bonus plan and long-term incentive arrangements were commissioned.
incentivises value creation In addition to ensuring the appropriate level of remuneration at executive level, the Committee is very keen to see that a consistent approach is taken across the wider organisation.
This consistency is achieved through its oversight responsibilities with respect to the remuneration packages of members of management below Board level and, in addition, by seeking to implement incentive schemes, where possible, to as wide a group as possible.
I am particularly proud that this alignment has been achieved with the Long Term Incentive Plan which has seen the number of award holders more than double since its introduction in 2007.
Given the high-risk nature of the mining industry, the Committee is resolute in ensuring that our commitments as a Responsible Operator flow through to our remuneration policy.
For this reason, clawback provisions operate in both the Annual Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plans in the event of an adverse occurrence in the areas of Health & Safety, the Environment and Community Relations.
I have the utmost confidence in managements efforts to foster a culture of safety amongst our employees as evidenced by the year-on-year reduction in the annual accident frequency rate.
However, we are collectively disappointed by the four fatalities that occurred during 2012.
As a sign of our determination to secure a safe working environment, the Committee and the executive team have agreed that 2012 bonuses to senior management and relevant personnel will be reduced.
As an organisation, we are firmly committed to communicating with our stakeholders transparently and so I am pleased to report that we have decided to adopt early some of the changes currently being consulted on by the UK Government with respect to the reporting of executive remuneration.
We hope that you find the additional information helpful.
I welcome your thoughts on our report.
Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 March 2013 Governance p62-97 www.
com 83 Overview Introduction This Directors remuneration report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors of Hochschild Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant regulations made under the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
As required by law, the information provided in the tables in the sections entitled CEOs LTIP awards and CEOs Enhanced LTIP award and the table on Directors total remuneration and accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP as they contain the information upon which the auditors are required to report to the Companys shareholders.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Field and its other members are Jorge Born Jr. Nigel Moore and Rupert Pennant-Rea.
All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
Members of senior management attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year, such members included the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President of Human Resources.
No Director or senior executive is present when his own remuneration arrangements are considered by the Committee.
The Committees Terms of Reference The duties of the Remuneration Committee are to determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the other members of senior management and the Company Secretary, as well as their specific remuneration packages including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In determining such policy, the Remuneration Committee shall take into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and are rewarded in a fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Meetings & activities during the year The Committee met twice during the year under review and undertook the items of business noted below.
March 2012 Considered the 2011 performance evaluations of the CEO and CFO who is not a member of the Board and approved the associated bonus payments.
In addition, the Committee noted the performance of, and bonus payments to, the Groups Vice Presidents: Approved the 2011 Directors remuneration report: Considered and approved the 2012 objectives for the CEO and CFO: Reviewed alternative performance conditions to be incorporated in the Long Term Incentive Plan: Approved the grant of 2012 LTIP awards subject to an additional TSR-based performance condition: and With respect to a number of Peru-resident senior managers, including the CEO, the Committee approved the re-denomination of salaries from US dollars to Peruvian Soles and increases in those salaries by up to 8% as a result of the sustained appreciation of the Peruvian Sol.
November 2012 Considered the outcome of a benchmarking study of the remuneration of the Companys senior executives including the CEO and approved salary increases with effect from 1 March 2013: Considered a provisional assessment of the CEOs and CFOs 2012 performance: Conducted a review of the Groups Annual Bonus Plan: Considered the proposed 2013 objectives for the CEOs and CFO: Noted an update with respect to the Companys TSR performance for the purposes of the LTIP awards made in 2010, 2011 and 2012: Considered a provisional proposal for the grant of 2013 LTIP awards: and Received an update on the proposals from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on changes to the reporting of executive remuneration.
84 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Shareholder engagement As part of the Groups policy of engaging actively with stakeholders, the Remuneration Committee consulted with shareholders during the year on matters within its scope of responsibilities.
In early 2012, the Committee Chairman wrote to the Companys largest shareholders to consult on the introduction of a new performance condition in the Long Term Incentive Plan.
In addition, meetings were offered to discuss any matter arising out of the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report the 2011 DRR.
The table below shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2011 DRR at the May 2012 AGM.
% of issued % of votes cast share capital For Against Abstentions Votes 99.02 0.98 4.2 Whilst the Company is not aware of the specific reasons for the level of abstentions, the Company can only surmise that they relate to the 8% increase in the CEOs salary due to currency re-denomination discussed on the earlier page and the changes to the structure of the LTIP in 2012 which, in addition to introducing a second TSR measure, reduced the threshold for full vesting in respect of 70% of the award from 90th to 80th percentile to be more in line with market practice.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
Advisers Kepler Associates, appointed in 2007, acted as the independent remuneration adviser to the Committee during the year.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and complies with the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
During the year, Kepler received payment totalling 30,286 US$47,852.
Kepler also provided LTIP performance monitoring for the Company.
Kepler provided no other services during the year.
Policy Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee continued to apply its stated remuneration policy in the year under review, the principal objectives of which are to: attract, retain, and motivate the Groups executives and senior management: provide management incentives that align with and support the Groups business strategy: and align management incentives with the creation of shareholder value.
The Group seeks to achieve this alignment over both the short and long term through the use of annual performance-related bonuses which reward the achievement of a balanced mix of financial, operational and other relevant performance measures, and the use of a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which is linked to relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
This policy continued to be applied by the Committee in respect of the current financial year.
However, as stated in the section entitled 2013 Bonus plan below, the Committee has set fewer and more focused objectives for the senior management for 2013.
An additional incentive has been designed specifically for the Chief Executive Officer in the form of the Enhanced LTIP, which was approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
Remuneration decisions are also driven by external considerations, in particular relating to the global demand for talent in the mining sector.
Termination payments The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
com 85 In the event an executive leaves for reasons of ill-health, death, redundancy, or retirement in agreement with the Company, then the vesting of LTIP and Enhanced LTIP in the case of the CEO awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest on the normal vesting date subject to performance over the full performance period.
Upon a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest early subject to performance to date, unless a replacement award is made.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards will lapse.
The Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
Details of maximum termination payments payable to the Executive Directors are provided in the Directors contractual arrangements section below.
Fixed and variable pay The following chart illustrates the remuneration that the CEO could be expected to receive at below target, target and maximum levels of performance as the only Executive Director eligible to receive variable elements of remuneration.
His maximum annual bonus entitlement and LTIP and Enhanced LTIP awards have been set at such a level to ensure that the majority of his remuneration is performance-based.
CEO TOTAL REMUNERATION 1 US$000 2,871 21% 36% 1,516 10% Enhanced LTIP 17% LTIP 34% 22% Annual bonus 593 6% 2% 1% Total benets 94% 37% 20% Salary Below target Maximum Target 2 Base salary $558k 3 Pension & benefits $35k Annual bonus 0% of salary 100% of salary 125% of salary LTIP Nil vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting 4 Enhanced LTIP Nil vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting Components of fixed pay for the Executive Directors are detailed in the following table.
2 3 Base salary Pension supplement Benefits Director US$000 US$000 US$000 Eduardo Hochschild 1,100 200 485 Ignacio Bustamante 558 0 35 1 Converted from PEN to USD using the 12-month average exchange rate over 2012 of USD $1 PEN 2.638.
2 Inclusive of compensation for time services.
3 Includes benefits-in-kind and profit share.
4 Note that the Enhanced LTIP has been annualised over the vesting period and is calculated to have an equivalent face value of 117.5% of salary in 2013.
The charts above exclude the effect of any Company share price appreciation.
For this reason, were the CEOs LTIP and Enhanced LTIP shares to vest in full, his actual total remuneration may exceed the USD value shown in the chart above.
Elements of remuneration Objectives and strategic linkage The Committee considers that the Remuneration Policy it seeks to apply to Executive Directors and senior management is well-aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and supports the achievement of key strategic objectives.
The following table indicates how this alignment is achieved with reference to each component of remuneration: 86 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Component of Remuneration Objectives Details To support recruitment and retention Aims to pay salaries that are competitive and Base salary relevant to the global mining sector, with reference to the relative cost of living Benefits To provide benefits in line with market The Executive Directors receive compensation for practice in relevant geographies time services and profit share, both of which are provided for by Peruvian law as well as allowances for medical insurance, the use of a car and driver, and personal security.
In addition, a cash supplement in lieu of pension is paid to the Executive Chairman To achieve alignment with the Annual bonus Groups strategy and commitment to See pages 87 to 89 for further details operating responsibly Numerous measures focusing on the delivery of Maximising core assets sustainable production targets and levels of Optimisation of life-of-mine and production profitability primarily through EBITDA Non-financial objectives rewarding quality and Exploration & project development quantity of exploration pipeline greenfields and To develop a pipeline of high quantitative targets for the addition of resources quality projects and discovery of economic targets brownfields Specific targets for managed progression of Advanced Projects Mergers & Acquisitions Non-financial objectives set requiring the To seek early stage value accretive identification and, where appropriate, execution of M&A opportunities opportunities with strong geological potential with a clear path to control Stretching targets seeking to achieve reductions in Committed to operating responsibly the Groups accident frequency and severity rates Non-financial objectives to minimise turnover in key positions Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce payment on occurrence of an adverse event related to health and safety, the environment or community relations To directly incentivise sustained Underpinned by relative Total Shareholder Return, Long Term Incentive Plan shareholder value creation through the LTIP indirectly rewards sustained increases in See pages 89 to 91 for further details operational performance and to support operational performance relative to peers over the recruitment of senior positions and three-year periods longer-term retention Committed to operating responsibly The Committee can reduce or prevent vesting in the event of the occurrence of an adverse event related to health & safety, the environment or community relations To support retention over a longer-term Underpinned by relative Total Shareholder Return, Enhanced Long Term horizon and to achieve stronger alignment the Plan indirectly rewards sustained increases in Incentive Plan with shareholder interests through the use operational performance over four-, fiveand See pages 91 and 92 for further details of conditional shares six-year periods.
Shareholding guidelines Alignment of executives interests Senior executives in receipt of LTIP awards granted with those of shareholders through a from 2011 are required to invest between 10% and sustained accumulation, over time, of 20% of the cash amount received on vesting in the the Companys shares Companys shares until a holding equivalent to a specified multiple of salary has been acquired.
com 87 Single figure total remuneration The following table illustrates the total single figure remuneration for each Executive Director calculated in accordance with the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Council.
US$000 Annual Enhanced Total Executive Salary Benefits Pension bonus LTIP LTIP Profit share remuneration Eduardo Hochschild 1,100 477 200 8 1,785 Ignacio Bustamante 532 25 560 725 10 1,852 Elements of remuneration Base salaries Payment of base salaries Eduardo Hochschild has service contracts with Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, a Group subsidiary.
Under these arrangements, one-fifth of his base salary is paid by the Company and fourfifths is paid by Ares.
Ignacio Bustamante has a service contract with Ares only and therefore his base salary is paid entirely by that company.
2013 Salary review Following discussions with the Company Chairman and having regard to a benchmarking review commissioned by the Committee on senior executive remuneration, an increase in Ignacio Bustamantes base salary of 3.5% was agreed with effect from 1 March 2013 to PEN 1,358,140 US$514,840.
No salary increase was awarded to the Company Chairman.
Short-term incentives Overview The Committee is responsible for setting the objectives for the CEO and the CFO based on individual roles and responsibilities which include the financial performance of the Group and achievement of key operational targets within the individuals scope of responsibilities.
The level of bonus paid depends on performance against these objectives and is subject to the discretion of the Committee.
Adjustments to reflect underlying business performance In line with the Committees usual practice, a review of the quality of earnings is conducted to determine whether any adjustments should be made to the reported profit for the purpose of bonus outcomes.
This ensures that bonus outcomes are not impacted by unbudgeted non-recurring or one-off items, or circumstances outside of managements control such as increased commodity prices that could distort the overall quality of earnings.
88 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued CEOs 2012 Bonus award Ignacio Bustamante, being the only Executive Director entitled to an annual bonus, has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary.
Objectives for the 2012 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and a provisional assessment of performance during the year was undertaken at the November 2012 Committee meeting.
A summary of the objectives set for Ignacio Bustamante for the year, their weightings and performance against each one is given below: Objective Target Weighting Performance Assessment Greenfields exploration 12% Target Production 10% Maximum Reduction in accident frequency rate 10% Maximum Championing leadership and development 10% Maximum Progress of specific projects 10% Target Capital expenditure 7% Maximum Assuring future growth through incorporation of mineral resources 7% Maximum Initiatives relating to investor relations 7% Maximum Business development initiatives 7% Target Adjusted cash cost 7% Threshold Adjusted EBITDA 7% Threshold Organisational improvements 6% Maximum The determination of the bonus payout is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account performance during the year against the above scorecard.
Each objective in the scorecard has a threshold, target and maximum performance target, achievement of which translates into a score for each objective.
Objectives which are considered critical to the Group are given higher weightings, such that outperformance in these areas contributes more significantly to the overall bonus outcome.
The weighted average of the scores is calculated, which is translated into a bonus outcome of between 0% and 125% of salary.
The Committee can exercise discretion to increase or decrease the actual bonus awarded.
The Committee assessed the CEOs performance in 2012 which resulted in an entitlement to the maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary.
However, despite having achieved the maximum target set for reducing the accident frequency index, the Committee and the executive team agreed to reduce, by between 10% and 20%, bonus payments to senior management and relevant personnel in light of the four fatalities occurring during the year.
com 89 2013 Bonus plan With respect to 2013, the Committee has approved a smaller number of objectives for the CEO, focused on business growth, profitability, safety and leadership.
As a result, the weightings for the specific targets relating to production, EBITDA and, most notably, safety, have been increased.
In addition, specific targets have been set in respect of the Advanced Projects and minimising turnover within key positions in the organisation.
Pensions, statutory profit sharing and benefits-in-kind The Group does not provide pension benefits to the Executive Directors, though a cash supplement of $200,000 is payable to Eduardo Hochschild in lieu of pension.
Of this supplement, $160,000 is payable by Ares and $40,000 by the Company.
In addition, under Peruvian law, mining companies with more than 20 employees must pay to employees an annual share of profits, in an amount equal to 8% of the companys taxable income for the year.
The amount receivable under this entitlement is determined with reference to seniority and length of service.
The Group provides the Executive Directors with medical insurance and allowances for the use of a car and driver, and personal security.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Introduction As part of its policy to motivate the CEO and senior employees over the long term, the Company has adopted a cash-based LTIP which helps align selected executives long-term interests with those of shareholders.
LTIP Awards were initially granted in 2008 with the intention that awards would be made every three years.
In 2010, the Committee reviewed the plan and it was felt that the retention and motivational aspects of the plan would be enhanced through the grant of annual awards.
The rules of the plan provide that maximum cash payments to participating Executive Directors in any three-year period may not be more than six times salary or eight times salary in exceptional circumstances excluding interest on the deferred proportion of the 2008 LTIP Award.
The equivalents of these upper limits also apply to annual awards, i. e. an annual grant limit of no more than two times salary in normal circumstances.
2012 LTIP Awards are subject to two TSR-based performance conditions: 70% of awards will vest based on the Companys TSR relative to a tailored comparator group of international mining companies, and 30% will vest on TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE350 Mining Index at the start of the performance period.
2010 LTIP awards Subsequent to the year end, the Committee considered the extent to which the performance condition attached to the 2010 LTIP Award has been satisfied.
The Committees advisers, Kepler Associates, confirmed that the Companys Total Shareholder Return in the performance period between 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2012 ranked third amongst the companies in the relevant comparator group which results in a vesting of 98% of an award holders maximum entitlement.
This entitlement arises on vesting of the award in May 2013 subject to any determination of the Remuneration Committee under the terms of the clawback, and the award holders continued employment on that date.
90 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Summary of Terms of Subsisting Awards The following is a summary of the performance targets and other information with respect to the LTIP awards subsisting as at the date of this report.
Plan 2010 LTIP 2011 LTIP 2012 LTIP Performance period 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2011 to 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 98% vested Date of grant of award 25 May 2010 28 April 2011 31 March 2012 rd rd rd Vesting 3 anniversary of date of grant 3 anniversary of date of grant 3 anniversary of date of grant Performance condition s 100% of the Award: 100% of the Award: 70% of the Award: Relative TSR Performance vs.
Tailored Peer Group 2010 Comparator Group, 2010 Comparator Group, 2 together with Fresnillo plc, the 2010 Comparator Group together with Fresnillo plc, Centamin Egypt Limited, Centamin Egypt Limited, African Barrick Gold plc and African Barrick Gold plc and Full Vesting: Upper Decile Randgold Resources Ltd Randgold Resources Ltd 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 25% Vesting: Median Full Vesting: Upper Quintile Full Vesting: Upper Decile 75% Vesting: Upper Tercile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile Straight line between lower 25% Vesting: Median and mid thresholds, and mid 25% Vesting: Median and upper thresholds Straight line between lower Straight line between lower and mid thresholds, and mid and mid thresholds, and mid and upper thresholds and upper thresholds 30% of the Award: Relative TSR Performance vs.
Constituents of FTSE350 Mining Index Full Vesting: Median TSR 10% p. a.
25% Vesting: Median TSR Straight line between lower and upper thresholds Other information Basis of TSR calculation of Common currency Average of local and Average of local and Comparator Group common currencies common currencies 3 Clawback provision Yes Yes Yes 4 Shareholding requirement No Yes Yes 1 Subject to meeting the relevant performance condition s. 2 The 2010 Comparator Group comprised the following companies: Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Barrick Gold Corp, Cia des Minas Buenaventura SA, Couer dAlne Mines Corp, Eldorado Gold Corp, Gold Fields Ltd, Goldcorp Inc, Highland Gold Mining Ltd, Iamgold Corp, Kinross Gold Corp, Minefinders Corp, Newmont Mining Corp, PAN American Silver Corp, Petropavlovsk Plc, Polymetal and Silver Standard Resources Inc. 3 Potential clawback if, before vesting, the Committee determines either that i the overall underlying business performance of the Company is not satisfactory or ii an unacceptable position has occurred regarding safety, the environment, community relations, and or compliance with legal obligations of the Company.
4 In relation to the 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards, selected award holders are required to invest a designated percentage of any cash amount received on the vesting of an award in the Companys shares.
com 91 CEOs LTIP awards Details of the LTIP awards held by Ignacio Bustamante, being the only Executive Director eligible to participate in the plan are given in the table below.
Value of maximum Value of maximum Value of Awards surrendered Value of maximum award held at award granted awards vested or lapsed during award held at Plan 31 December 2011 during the year during the year the year 31 December 2012 1 2008 LTIP $0.376m $0.384m 2 2010 LTIP $0.74m $0.74m 3 2011 LTIP $0.9m $0.9m 4 2012 LTIP $0.9m $0.9m 1 The performance conditions attached to the 2008 LTIP award are summarised on page 82 of the 2011 Annual Report in the section entitled Subsisting awards.
The rules governing the award provide for equal vesting on the third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant of the award with the latter subject only to continued employment with the Group.
Accordingly, Ignacio Bustamante became entitled to receive $376k on 9 May 2011 and to the same amount, together with notional interest of $7,956, on 9 May 2012.
The figure representing the value of the award vesting during the year includes the notional interest.
2 The performance conditions attached to the 2010 LTIP award summarised in the table on the previous page have been satisfied to the extent that 98% of the maximum value of the award will vest in May 2013 and will be payable on that date subject to any determination of the Remuneration Committee under the terms of the clawback, and the CEOs continued employment.
3 The performance conditions attached to the 2011 LTIP award are summarised in the table on the previous page.
Ignacio Bustamante is required to invest at least 20% of any amount paid to him upon vesting of the 2011 LTIP award in the Companys shares until such time as he has accumulated a shareholding with a value of two times salary.
4 The performance conditions attached to the 2012 LTIP award are summarised in the table on the previous page.
Ignacio Bustamante is required to invest in the Companys shares at least 20% of any amount paid to him upon vesting of the 2012 LTIP award until such time as he has accumulated a shareholding with a value of two times salary.
Proposed 2013 LTIP awards The Committee intends to grant awards under the LTIP to the CEO in line with the 2012 LTIP Award.
Enhanced LTIP Introduction In 2011, an enhancement was made to the CEOs 2011 LTIP award to reinforce his alignment with shareholder interests and to ensure his total remuneration package remains competitive.
The Enhanced LTIP award is in the form of Conditional Shares with a value, on the date of grant, equivalent to six times the CEOs salary that vests over an extended performance period of four, five and six years.
Summary of Terms A summary of the performance targets and other information relating to the Enhanced LTIP award subsisting at the date of this report is given below.
Performance periods 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2014 in respect of 25% of the Award 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2015 in respect of 25% of the Award 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2016 in respect of 50% of the Award Vesting 28 April 2015 in respect of 90,549 Shares 28 April 2016 in respect of 90,549 Shares 28 April 2017 in respect of 181,098 Shares Performance condition Relative TSR Performance Full Vesting: Upper Decile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 25% Vesting: Median Straight line between lower and mid thresholds, and mid and upper thresholds TSR comparator group As for the 2011 LTIP Awards Other information Basis of TSR calculation of Comparator Group Average of local and common currencies 2 Clawback provision Yes Shareholding requirement 50% of the after-tax vested shares is required to be retained until an overall beneficial shareholding equal to two times salary has been achieved 1 Subject to meeting the relevant performance condition.
2 Potential clawback if, before vesting, the Remuneration Committee determines either that i the overall underlying business performance of the Company is not satisfactory or ii an unacceptable position has occurred regarding safety, the environment, community relations, and or compliance with legal obligations of the Company.
92 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued CEOs Enhanced LTIP award Details of the Conditional Shares held by Ignacio Bustamante under the Enhanced LTIP are provided in the table below.
Number of Number of Conditional Number of Number of Number of Conditional Market Value of Shares at Conditional Conditional Conditional Shares held at each share at 31 December Shares granted Shares vesting Shares lapsing 31 December Exercise date of award Vesting of 2011 during the year during the year during the year 2012 Price pence Awards 1 362,196 0 0 0 362,196 Nil 428 See note 2 1 Details of the performance conditions attached to the award of Conditional Shares are provided in the table on the previous page.
2 Details on the timing of vesting of awards are provided in the table on the previous page.
Change of control Awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan and the Enhanced LTIP shall, upon a change of control of the Company, vest early unless a replacement award is made.
Vesting will be pro-rated to take account of the proportion of the period from the award date to the normal vesting date falling prior to the change of control and the extent to which performance conditions and any other conditions applying to the award have been met.
Other information Performance graph The following graph shows the TSR Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared to the FTSE350 Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 December 2007.
The Board considers that the FTSE350 Index currently represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as it provides a view of performance against the broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
100 INVESTED IN HOCHSCHILD AND FTSE350 INDEX ON 31 DECEMBER 2007 180 120 60 0 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 FTSE350 Index Hochschild Mining plc Source: Bloomberg Directors contractual arrangements Executive Directors As previously described, the contractual arrangements for the Chairman who was appointed prior to the IPO in 2006 differ from those for the CEO who was subsequently appointed.
Eduardo Hochschild is employed under contracts of employment with the Company and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, a Group company, dated 16 October 2006 as subsequently amended.
The contracts have no fixed terms and may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing.
In setting the notice period for termination at 12 months, the Committee reduced the likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of termination at the Companys behest and, to this end, a provision for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable in the event of unsatisfactory performance is included in the Directors contract.
Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2010 and is employed under a contract of employment with Ares dated 1 April 2007.
The contract is subject to Peruvian law and, as such, has no fixed term and may be terminated i by the executive on 30 days notice and ii by Ares without notice.
Under Peruvian law, termination by Ares other than termination for certain prescribed reasons such as gross negligence gives rise to an entitlement to compensation of no less than 1.5 times the monthly base salary for each year of service completed, up to a maximum of 12 months base salary.
com 93 Non-Executive Directors The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under Letters of Appointment as detailed in the table below.
In accordance with their terms, the Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial period of three years which is automatically extended for a further three years.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the appointments of Non-Executive Directors may be determined by the Board or the Director giving not less than three months notice.
The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its committees.
The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are set out in the table below.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors was in office for the entire year under review with the exception of Enrico Bombieri who was appointed during the year, as detailed in the footnote accompanying the table below.
Director Letter of Appointment dated Directors fee per annum Jorge Born Jr. 16 October 2006 100,000 $158,000 1 Sir Malcolm Field 16 October 2006 120,000 $190,000 1 Nigel Moore 16 October 2006 120,000 $190,000 Fred Vinton 9 July 2009 100,000 $158,000 Roberto Daino 11 January 2011 100,000 $158,000 Dr Graham Birch 20 June 2011 100,000 $158,000 Rupert Pennant-Rea 30 August 2011 100,000 $158,000 2 Enrico Bombieri 20 October 2012 100,000 $158,000 1 The fees payable to Sir Malcolm Field and Nigel Moore reflect the additional time commitment required, given their positions as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, respectively.
2 Enrico Bombieri was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 November 2012.
External appointments The Board recognises that Executive Directors may, in addition, serve as directors of other companies which can bring benefits to the Group.
The table below details the fees received by Eduardo Hochschild during the year, in respect of his other directorships, which are retained by him.
Name of Director Company Fees received Eduardo Hochschild Banco Crdito del Per PEN 263,225 $99,782 Inversiones Pacasmayo SA and 1 affiliated companies PEN 15,359,631 $5,822,453 Pacifico Peruano Suiza Cia.
fide Seguros PEN 120,600 $45,716 1 The amount disclosed comprises i Board fees, ii salary received by Eduardo Hochschild in his capacity as Executive Chairman of Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
A. and iii fees received by him in his capacity as a consultant to Inversiones Pacasmayo SA, companies of which he is the controlling shareholder.
94 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors remuneration report continued Table of Directors total remuneration The following table sets out the remuneration of the Directors serving during the year in respect of the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
2 Eduardo Hochschild has a service contract with both Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. a Group subsidiary.
3 One-fifth of Eduardo Hochschilds salary was paid by the Company with the balance paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. In addition, US$40,000 of his annual pension supplement was paid by the Company with the balance paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. 4 Salaries paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. include all legal labour benefits and compensation such as, but not restricted to, family allowance, vacation salaries and compensation for time services ruled by Peruvian Legislative Decree 650 but exclude legal profit sharing.
5 Following a review of Eduardo Hochschilds remuneration in 2010, it was agreed that he would not be entitled to participate in any Long Term Incentive Plan or Bonus Plans in respect of 2010 and subsequent years.
6 Benefits-in-kind relate to the benefits provided to Mr Daino pursuant to his engagement as a Special Adviser to the Chairman and Senior Management team see note 7 below for further details which include transportation and out-of-pocket expenses.
7 The amount represents the fee of 150,000 per annum payable to Mr Daino in respect of his engagement as Special Adviser to the Chairman and the Senior Management team pursuant to a contract between Mr Daino and Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares dated 28 December 2010.
The contract provides for a one-year term which renews automatically for further one-year periods and can be terminated by either party on 30 days written notice.
In the event that Ares terminates the contract before 31 December 2015, Mr Daino is entitled to receive 30% of the fee payable to him in the period from the date of termination until 31 December 2015.
8 Represents the amount received by Ignacio Bustamante in 2012 following the vesting of the 2008 LTIP award which, under the relevant terms and conditions, accrued notional interest of $7,956.
9 Enrico Bombieri was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 November 2012.
10 Dr Graham Birch was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 July 2011.
11 Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 September 2011.
12 Dionisio Romero retired from the Board on 23 May 2012.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the Companys shares are set out in the Directors report on page 66.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Hochschild Mining plc and is signed on its behalf by Sir Malcolm Field Chairman, Remuneration Committee 12 March 2013
