Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The main components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors are: BASIC SALARY Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
This is normally reviewed annually with any increase usually being effective from 1 April unless responsibilities change.
Salary levels are determined taking into account market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies in the top half of the FTSE-250 and pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Company.
In July 2011 the salaries of Messrs King and Bennett were reviewed following changes in their responsibilities.
Mr Kings salary remained unchanged but it was agreed that certain relocation expenses be paid in respect of his move from the US to the UK and that a living allowance of 44,000 per annum be paid for a period of two years with effect from 1 September 2011.
Mr Bennetts role as CFO was expanded and he took on wider operational responsibilities including for example for information systems.
His role was externally benchmarked and his basic salary was increased by 6.4%.
It has been agreed that basic salaries for Executive Directors will not be increased with effect from 1 April 2012.
No increase in salary has been applied to the general workforce in the UK.
Current salaries are set out below: Name of Director R D Harpin 522,750 M Bennett 333,650 J King 368,250 ANNUAL BONUS The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward excellent short term operating performance of the Company and encourage real year-on-year growth in profitability.
No annual bonus is paid unless a very high level of performance is achieved.
Executive Directors bonuses are paid entirely in cash, though under the Long Term Incentive Plan adopted in 2008, Directors have the opportunity to invest part of their net bonus in shares.
If they choose to do this, they may be awarded a matching award which has been subject to a comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition and an EPS target.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 67 GOVERNANCE REMUNERA TION REPORT 2011 12 During the year, 80% of bonus potential was based on Group financial performance, measured by profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items.
The remaining 20% of bonus potential was based on measurable personal targets, relating to the part of the business or the function for which the Director is responsible.
This weighting differed for Jon Florsheim and Jonathan King who had the potential to earn a higher proportion of their bonus based on targets specifically related to the performance of the divisions for which they were responsible.
No bonuses will be paid in respect of 2011 12.
2012 13 Bonus potential will remain at 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has however undertaken a detailed review of the bonus objectives and some significant changes will be introduced with a view to ensuring that customer outcomes are of equal importance to commercial outcomes.
Bonus objectives will be as follows: Commercial objectives 40% of bonus Customer objectives 40% of bonus Personal objectives 20% of bonus Profit before tax A reduction in customer An improvement in employee Core renewable complaints engagement customers An increase in customer Up to four other stretching satisfaction personal objectives Executive Directors with a specific responsibility for a particular territory will be able to earn a higher proportion of bonus potential based on their respective territory.
This will apply to Jonathan King and Martin Bennett, both of whom have specific responsibility for the UK.
Stringent bonus gates will be applied with the customer objectives being considered first.
If an agreed percentage of the customer objectives are not achieved, no bonus will be payable.
If customer objectives are achieved, the level of profit and therefore affordability will be considered.
Finally, Executives will need to achieve 40% of their personal objectives for any bonus to be paid.
Provided their personal objectives are met in full, the normal on-target bonus payable to Executive Directors in any year is expected to be in the region of 60% of their basic salary.
68 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements LONG-TERM INCENTIVES The Committees policy for the provision of long-term incentives to Executive Directors is to grant awards of performance shares performance awards and to provide them with the opportunity to invest their annual bonus voluntarily into a matching share arrangement matching awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan adopted in 2008 the 2008 LTIP.
The maximum individual award limit under the 2008 LTIP is 200% of basic salary for performance awards and for matching awards of up to two shares for each share invested, based on a maximum investment of the net of tax equivalent of 75% of the maximum bonus potential.
Awards under the 2008 LTIP may be satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the 2008 LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
2011 AWARDS Performance share awards were granted to the Executive Directors in 2011 equal to 150% of salary.
Matching awards up to the maximum ratio of two shares for each invested share were also granted.
50% of the award of performance and matching shares was subject to TSR targets and the other 50% of the award was subject to a target based on a range of EPS growth as follows: TSR EPS 25% of any award subject to TSR will vest if 25% of any award subject to EPS will vest for HomeServes TSR performance is equal to the average annual EPS growth of RPI 4%, increasing FTSE-250 index, increasing on a straight line basis to in a straight line to 100% vesting where average 100% vesting where TSR performance exceeds the annual EPS growth is RPI 10%.
Index by an average of 15 percentage points per annum.
In determining the vesting of awards in any year under the TSR part of the award, the Committee will also take into account the underlying financial performance of the business.
For both conditions performance is measured over a period of three financial years.
The estimated fair value of LTIP awards granted in 2011 was 75% of the face value of the share at the time of grant.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 69 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT 2012 AWARDS The Committee has reviewed the operation of the LTIP for 2012 given the recent issues in the business and the reduced share price and has decided to make some minor changes to the operation of the LTIP for 2012.
Firstly, in light of the criticality to the business of Martin Bennett and Jonathan King and their individual performance, the Remuneration Committee is intending to grant a one-off larger award of performance shares, at 200% of base salary for 2012 13, but still within the limits of existing shareholder approval.
The LTIP award for Richard Harpin will remain at 150% of salary.
Secondly, in view of the difficulties with using a long term financial performance condition, and to ensure management has a strong focus on improving the stock market performance of the business, a TSR performance condition with financial underpin will be used for all of the LTIP award.
This approach will provide a strong and unequivocal investor alignment, something which we believe is necessary in the present circumstances.
The specific performance condition will operate as previously, requiring HomeServes TSR to match that of the FTSE-250 Index for 25% of the shares to vest, rising on a straight-line basis so that full vesting requires out-performance of the Index by 15% per annum.
This is consistent with how the TSR condition has been operated to date.
The Committee believes that this is a stretching target range.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial performance of the business before allowing an award to vest by reference to TSR.
Matching awards up to the maximum ratio of two shares for each invested share will continue to be granted.
It should be noted that, under the plan rules, the executives may invest up to the lower of their actual bonus earned in the preceding financial year and 75% of their maximum bonus potential.
Given that bonuses for 2011 12 were zero, no bonus deferral will be possible this year.
However, executives may voluntarily invest up to 25% of salary in shares from their own money.
SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME Executive Directors may also participate in the Groups Save As You Earn Scheme where share options are exercisable after three or five years at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the time of grant.
No performance criteria are attached to this scheme.
BENEFITS Non-pension benefits comprise company car and fuel allowance and medical insurance.
The range of benefits and their value are considered to be broadly in line with those provided to Executive Directors in similar companies in the FTSE-250.
70 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES It is the Boards policy that Executive Directors and certain members of the Companys senior management build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Executive Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to his annual basic salary.
Accordingly, if the holding guideline has not been fulfilled at the point of exercise of any option or the vesting of any other long-term incentive award, the Director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement is achieved.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Executive Directors are provided on page 77.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The Committees policy is to offer service contracts with notice periods of one year or less other than in exceptional circumstances, where longer initial notice periods may be offered on appointment, and then reduced to one year over time.
All Executive Directors contracts of service are terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
Dates of current contracts are summarised in the table below: Name Date of contract R Harpin 18 January 2002 M Bennett 26 June 2009 J King 1 September 2011 The Company may terminate the executives employment by making a payment equivalent to one years remuneration excluding bonus in the case of Martin Bennett and Jonathan King.
Notice periods and payments are not extendable in takeover situations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 71 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT PENSIONS Executive Directors currently participate in one of two pension schemes: The Water Companies Pension Scheme A funded, Inland Revenue approved occupational defined benefit scheme Members Richard Harpin Jonathan King Main features pension at normal retirement age of one-half of final pensionable salary and a tax free lump sum of one and a half times final pensionable salary on completion of 40 years service at an accrual rate of 80ths plus 3 80ths cash: life assurance of five times basic salary: pension payable in the event of ill health: and spouses pension on death: normal retirement at age 60.
Special features Non-contributory for Richard Harpin.
The HomeServe Money Plan A funded, Inland Revenue approved occupational defined contribution pension scheme Members Martin Bennett Main features employer contributions of 20%: life assurance of five times basic salary: permanent health insurance: spouses pension on death: normal retirement at age 60 Unapproved pension provision A notional earnings cap restricts the benefits provided to members of the Water Companies Pension Scheme and the HomeServe Money Plan.
An unapproved pension payment, equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is paid annually.
The notional cap is indexed in line with earnings inflation.
