GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY OF COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Type Objective Performance Period Policy for 2012 13 To reflect the particular skills and Annual reviewed Individual pay is determined Basic salary experience of an individual and on 1 April by reference to the skills and to provide a competitive base responsibilities of the individual.
salary compared with similar Consideration is also given to pay and roles in similar companies.
employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when determining base salary increases and to market data on comparable roles looking at pay practices in other companies in the top half of the FTSE-250 and other similar roles.
Performance To incentivise the delivery Annual The maximum potential quantum of Group and individual determined after is set so as to incentivise stretch related bonus performance-related objectives.
the year-end performance and provide a competitive level of reward if all the targets are achieved.
Actual bonus payments were determined according to the Groups financial 80% and individual 20% performance for 2011 12.
For 2012 13, bonus payments will be determined according to performance in respect of commercial 40%, customer 40% and personal targets 20%.
Pension To provide benefits comparable N A Pension benefits are aligned with with similar roles in similar the market.
Only basic salary is companies.
To provide benefits comparable N A Other benefits comprise a fully Other benefits with similar roles in similar expensed car or cash alternative, companies.
private health and for Mr Bennett long-term sickness cover.
Long-term To drive long-term delivery Three years Awards under the 2008 LTIP will of the Groups objectives, deliver rewards based on relative TSR incentives to align Directors interests performance subject to satisfactory with those of the Companys underlying earnings performance.
shareholders and to encourage Policy awards are 150% of salary.
exceptional performance with Awards of 200% of salary will be the opportunity to receive upper made to Messrs Bennett and King in quartile rewards.
2012 13 only, reflecting the change in their roles during the year and their criticality to the business.
