Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee Committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board on an appropriate remuneration policy and carries out an annual remuneration review within the agreed terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee which are available on the Groups website at www.
During the year the members of the Committee have been Ian Pearson Chairman, David Hurst-Brown and David Anderson.
In addition, the Group has recently appointed a new Non-Executive Director, Gilles Delfassy and he joins the Remuneration Committee.
In the forthcoming months it is the intention of the Group to carry out a review of the composition of all its sub-committees.
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration packages of each of the Executive Directors.
This includes basic salary, annual bonus, level of awards under the Groups share incentive arrangements Awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such rights, pension rights, determining their terms and conditions of service, and any compensation payments and to ensure that such remuneration levels are competitive, appropriate and acceptable.
During the year Olswang provided legal services in relation to share incentive plans, Matthew Arnold Baldwin provided general employment advice and the Groups Independent Financial Advisor, JLT formerly HACL advised on pension matters.
Towers Watson furnished the Committee with data of executive packages of other FTSE 250 companies.
The remuneration of Ian Pearson, David Hurst-Brown and David Anderson is established by the Executive Directors of the Board.
The Committee also has discussions with the Board in relation to the Boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors and in particular the Directors Remuneration Report, as required by the Companies Act 2006, the Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
No Board member is involved in deciding his own remuneration package.
Remuneration Policy The Committee has given full consideration to the Principles of Good Governance as set out in the Code with reference to Directors remuneration.
The main objectives of the policy are to ensure that pay and benefits packages are sufficiently competitive to attract, develop and retain high calibre executives.
The Committee will continue in the future to ensure that a competitive and well-balanced package is maintained.
It also seeks to align individual reward and incentives with the performance of the Group and, hence, with the interests of the shareholders.
When carrying out its role the Committee will consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues.
In determining Directors remuneration for the year the Committee took into consideration the pay and conditions of employees of the Group.
Annual Remuneration Review During the year the Committee carried out an annual review of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
To assist in this process the Committee received independent advice from Towers Watson on executive remuneration for companies of the FTSE250 as a whole and to those companies in the FTSE 250 with revenues in the range of 100m-200m.
The Committee believes it is appropriate to benchmark and be aware of the remuneration of executives holding similar posts generally, and in our specific sector, including international competitors.
However the Committee considers the success and the significant growth of the business to be the principal factors in assessing and determining the appropriate remuneration of its Executives.
Until the past 2 years when the business began to achieve sustained profitability the Committee made recommendations of minimal salary increases and even salary reductions to keep a tight control of costs.
In the past year the Group has continued to deliver strong growth in revenue and profit and headcount across the business has increased by 20%.
More recently therefore the Committee have been trying to bring the Executive salaries more in line with what it regards as appropriate for a Group of its size and profitability.
Directors Remuneration The main elements of the Executive Directors remuneration are: Basic salary To review and determine the specific levels of basic salary, the Committee draws on a wide range of relevant data, market conditions, as well as Group and individual performance.
Share incentives The Committee aims to ensure that Executives and senior employees are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
The Group is currently operating an Employee Share Plan ESP and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan, both of which were approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
The Committee continues to believe that appropriate share incentives provide the best form of long term incentive needed to motivate and retain employees and to encourage employee share ownership.
At the AGM in 2009, the Group made changes to the ESP to enable it to make ESP awards more tax-efficient and also to make share option grants under a Company Share Option Plan in order to give it increased flexibility in the type of share incentives it may award to Group employees.
In October 2011 the Group enabled all employees holding the share awards made in 2008 to change them from restricted discretionary share awards to nil cost share options allowing employees five years to exercise the option from the date of vesting.
This action was taken in recognition of the extremely difficult economic environment and given the volatility in the worldwide markets which had adversely affected share prices and to encourage retention of awards beyond the first vesting date.
There are a number of share options outstanding under the Groups old schemes, including approved and unapproved key employee schemes, an Enterprise Management Incentive EMI scheme and a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP scheme.
45 The discretionary Awards under the ESP have performance criteria.
The awards under the ESP in 2008 are related to the share price relative to the increase in the FTSE All Share Index and growth in gross profit over a three year period.
The awards under the ESP in 2009 have a performance condition related to the growth in the Groups share price over a three year period.
In December 2009 the Chief Executive Officer was awarded a specific share award which the Board believed was necessary for retention and to provide appropriate motivation.
This award is over a five year period.
The Group consulted major shareholders before making this award.
This share award, made under the provisions of the Listing Rules 9.4.
2.2, is for 2,250,000 shares and, subject to the performance conditions see page 49, will vest in three tranches: 750,000 shares after three years, 750,000 after four years and 750,000 after five years.
In October 2011 the Chief Financial Officer was awarded 50,000 nil cost share options as part of his employment offer when joining the Group see page 49.
The discretionary options that were granted before the adoption of the Employee Share Plan have performance criteria based on the achievement of targets in the market price of Imagination Technologies Group plc shares, and those options issued to Directors have the performance conditions attached to them as set out on page 48.
The SAYE scheme does not have performance conditions.
Discretionary options were granted at market value with SAYE options issued at a 20% discount to market value.
Cash bonus The Group has an annual cash bonus plan for key Executives.
Awards under the annual bonus plan are split into two portions, a portion that is discretionary based on performance and a portion that relates to the achievement of budgeted profit.
Pension policy The Group does not run its own pension scheme and Executive Directors are eligible to become members of the Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
There are no special arrangements for Executive Directors and the same employer contribution of 7.5% of executive basic salary applies.
A Pension Salary Sacrifice scheme is in place for all members of the pension scheme, including Executive Directors and this has impacted the amounts stated in Directors Emoluments on page 47.
Service contracts Geoff Shingles and Hossein Yassaie have on-going service contracts dated 31 March 1998.
Richard Smith has an on-going service contract dated 3 May 2011.
The Executive Directors service contracts may be terminated by either party on six months notice.
The Committee regards the notice period in these contracts as being appropriate.
In the event of termination of an Executive Directors service contract there are no specific compensation entitlement provisions in the contracts with respect to termination, other than the notice period.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Ian Pearsons, David Hurst-Browns and David Andersons letters are dated respectively 14 April 1998, 4 August 2000 and 25 November 2010.
Each Non-Executive Director will be re-elected annually to comply with the provisions of the Code.
Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown will seek re-election at this years AGM since they have been Non-Executive Directors for more than nine years and under the Combined Code a Non-Executive Director is required to be re-elected annually if he has served the board for more than nine years.
During the year the Executive Board carried out a review of the fees of the Non-Executive Directors and obtained independent advice from Towers Watson on non-executive remuneration for companies of the FTSE250 as a whole and to those companies in the FTSE 250 with revenues in the range of 100m-200m.
After careful consideration the Executive Board decided it was necessary to increase the basic fees of all Non-Executive Directors and to introduce a fee to those Non-Executive Directors who hold the position of Chairman of a Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Groups annual cash bonus or other share incentive schemes.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors of the Board and no element of their fees is performance-related.
Other directorships Any other directorships of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on pages 31 to 32 with the directorships of Geoff Shingles, who carries out his Executive duties with the Group on a part time basis.
The Board is satisfied that these directorships do not interfere with the performance of Directors duties for the Group.
46 Total shareholders return In the total shareholder return analysis the TechMark All-Share Index has been chosen to compare the performance of the Companys share price against an index of comparable companies.
The following information has been audited: Directors Emoluments The following table is intended to bring together the value of the various emoluments of remuneration received by each Director during the year.
Part of this amount was discretionary based on performance and the other portion was based on the Group achieving profit to budget.
Richard Smith was not eligible to receive a cash bonus.
Both Hossein Yassaie and Richard Smith participate in the Groups Pension Salary Sacrifice Scheme which is offered to all employees.
47 Directors Share Incentives The following table sets out the share-related incentives the Directors have in the shares of Imagination Technologies Group plc.
Options issued under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Awards made under the Employee Share Plan ESP.
Performance Share Awards PSA made to CEO.
Nil Cost Options under the Employee Share Plan Reclassified in October 2011 from ESP Awards.
Note - The Total Balance at 1 May 2011 excludes the share incentives held by Trevor Selby as at that date as he resigned during the financial period.
The mid-closing price of the shares on 30 April 2012 was 687.5p and the range during the financial period was 717p to 296.9p.
Executive Directors Share option and share awards performance conditions: LTIP share options are exercisable if the share price growth is at least greater than an annual compound increase of 15% per annum in the share price over the four year period following the date of grant and there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
ESP awards for 2008 have two performance conditions: 1.
The first 50% of the Award was subject to the performance of Group shares.
It was dependent on the percentage growth in the value of a share in the Group compared to the percentage growth of the FTSE All Share Index over the three year period commencing on the date of grant of the Award.
If the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was 150% then all 50% of the Award would vest, if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was between 125% and 150% of the Index then pro-rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 50% would vest, and if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was below 125% of the Index then there is no Award: and 2.
The second 50% of the Award is calculated by reference to gross profit.
"Vesting is calculated by reference to the gross profit generated by the Group as derived from the Groups audited report and accounts prepared on a consolidated basis ""Gross Profit""."
"The Gross Profit will be measured over the three financial periods commencing 1 May 2008 the ""Performance Period""."
The growth in Gross Profit will be measured for each financial period against the previous financial period and then averaged at the end of the Performance Period.
In the case of the first financial period in the Performance Period, the Gross Profit for that year will be compared to the Gross Profit for the period to 30 April 2008.
The following shows the vesting of the share awards: If the average growth in Gross Profit over the performance period is 15% then 40% of the share award will vest, if the average growth in Gross Profit over the performance period is 19% then 70% of the share award will vest and if the average growth in Gross Profit over the 48 performance period is 23% or more then 100% of the share award will vest.
Performance Share Award for the CEO award for 2009 has one performance condition related to the annual cumulative growth in the Groups share price over a three, four and five year period from the date of grant.
If the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is less than 7.5%, no part of the award will vest, if the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is more than 7.5% and less than 15% the performance target will be satisfied pro-rata on a straight line basis and if the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is 15% or more, all 100% will vest.
Performance Share Award for the CFO award for 2011 has one performance condition subject to the performance of Group shares.
If the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was 150% then all 50% of the Award would vest, if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was between 125% and 150% of the Index then pro-rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 50% would vest, and if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was below 125% of the Index then there is no Award.
SAYE share options do not have any performance conditions.
Directors Share Dealings Employee share incentive schemes The following Directors dealings took place during the year.
Under the Employee Share Plan Hossein Yassaie exercised 1,029,000 nil cost shares options granted in October 2008 on 27 January 2012.
The closing market price of the shares on this date was 581 pence resulting in a gain of 5,978,490 2011: 1,209 shares and a gain of 3,325.
Of the 1,029,000 shares that were exercised, 802,000 were sold and 227,000 were retained by Hossein Yassaie.
Under the SAYE Plan On 19 March 2012, Hossein Yassaie exercised a share option over 8,115 shares granted to him in September 2008 at 55.6 pence.
The closing market price of the shares on this date was 690.5 pence resulting in a gain of 51,522 2011: no shares and Nil gain.
On 8 November 2011, Geoff Shingles exercised a share option over 8,115 shares granted to him in September 2008 at 55.6 pence.
The closing market price of the shares on this date was 470 pence resulting in a gain of 33,629 2011: no shares and Nil gain.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan During the year Hossein Yassaie did not exercise any share options under this scheme 2011: 500,000 shares and 1,385,000 gain.
Directors Interests Interests of the Directors in the shares of Imagination Technologies Group plc were as follows: Ordinary shares of 10p beneficially owned at 30 April 2012 2011 G S Shingles 116,133 141,133 H Yassaie 813,947 573,832 R A B Smith 1,113 I R Pearson 31,622 35,122 D A Hurst-Brown 50,000 70,000 D Anderson 5,675 3,775 As at 18 June 2012 there had been no changes in the above interests.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 June 2012 and was signed on its behalf by: I R Pearson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 49
