Remuneration report Bob Stack Chairman, Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee took the opportunity to review the Dear shareholder, long-term incentive plan LTIP framework which was originally implemented in 2006.
The purpose of the review was to ensure that Since I became Chairman of our performance targets retained a strong alignment with the longer term business plans of the Company and, in particular, to ensure that the Remuneration Committee our growth is delivered in a profitable way.
We wanted to bring in in 2005, the remuneration an additional measure so that the plan would focus on what we see as being the important success factors over the coming years.
The policy has gradually evolved changes made this year will also make the performance measurement more transparent for participants and shareholders.
As part of the alongside our business strategy.
review, we consulted with our major shareholders.
The dialogue was informative and constructive, and we have used the feedback in Throughout this process we have determining our final design.
continued to place significant We have not made any changes to award levels as a result of the review.
emphasis on ensuring that Therefore maximum opportunities under the three incentive plans for Executive Directors shall remain unchanged from last year.
executive remuneration is Sainsburys continues to deliver good performance and this has been weighted towards performanceachieved despite the continued weakness within the retail sector and the wider economy.
The vesting of this years cash annual bonus and the related elements and directed 2009 10 long-term incentive plan is lower than the awards which vested last year, and this is a function of the stretching targets that were set at towards creating sustainable the start of the relevant performance period.
The Deferred Share Award long-term shareholder value.
is our medium-term incentive plan, and the vesting outcome for 2011 12 reflects the positive actions taken by management to build the longterm growth of the Company.
In order to help shareholders to understand how pay is linked to performance, we have included a new section in this years Remuneration Report, which summarises the payout for the Chief Executive from the different elements of the package as they relate to performance in 2011 12.
The remuneration policy for the coming year is set out in greater detail in the main body of the report.
52 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued Key points include: Summary of performance for 2011 12 Under the leadership of our experienced Executive team, we continue In keeping with our long standing approach, pay awards made to to deliver strong performance relative to our peers and this has been the Executive Directors at the start of the 2012 13 financial year achieved despite the continued weakness within the retail sector and were consistent with the approach taken across the wider Company.
This highlights our continued improvement in Justin Kings salary was increased by 2.17 per cent.
performance across all key areas.
During the year the Company achieved year-on-year growth in both The charts below demonstrate the sustained performance and the value sales and profit.
The outcome under the annual bonus plan reflects that we have delivered to our shareholders over an extended period.
the highly stretching targets which were set at the start of the year.
The maximum opportunities for Executive Directors under the Annual Like-for-like sales including VAT, excluding fuel % Bonus, Deferred Share Award and Long-Term Incentive Plan are unchanged from last year.
1-year 2.1 As a result of the review of the long-term incentives and following shareholder consultation, the Committee has decided that for the 2-year 4.4 2012 13 grant, awards will be based on a combination of return on 3-year 8.9 capital employed ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales performance.
13.8 4-year These changes will focus management on efficient use of our capital 18.3 5-year base, generating cash flow through increased profitability and achieving sales growth more successfully than our peers.
2011 12 % In recognition of the recent developments in best practice and the concerns of shareholders generally, we are also introducing a clawUnderlying profit before tax m back provision for future long-term incentive awards.
This will further strengthen our formal governance in line with our existing philosophy.
2007 08 434 2008 09 519 The remuneration policy and framework as detailed in this Remuneration Report provide a platform to incentivise, motivate, retain 610 2009 10 and reward our leadership team.
We are confident that our consistent efforts to ensure a direct link between pay and performance in the 665 2010 11 areas most valued by our shareholders have significantly contributed 712 2011 12 to building a focused leadership team.
Underlying operating margin % 2007 08 3.00 Bob Stack 2008 09 3.26 Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3.36 2009 10 3.50 2010 11 3.54 2011 12 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 53 53 Remuneration report continued Chief Executive Pay Summary In order to provide shareholders with greater clarity as to how performance is linked to pay levels, the following table shows a breakdown of remuneration for the Chief Executive for 2011 12 and for 2010 11.
The table shows variable remuneration elements which are linked to performance in 2011 12.
Shareholders will note that the Deferred Share Award is subject to a further two-year deferral period from the date of the award and that one half of the Value Builder award is subject to a further oneyear deferral period.
Chief Executive 000s 2011 12 2010 11 Base salary Paid in the year 920 900 Pension and benefits Paid in the year 306 301 1 2 Annual Bonus Based on performance over one year 514 520 3 4 Deferred Share Award Based on performance over one year Full award deferred for further two years 897 934 5 Long Term Incentive Plan Based on performance over the last three years Half of the award shown here will be deferred for a further year 735 1,052 Total 3,372 3,707 1 Annual bonus payouts are based on profit, sales and customer-focused targets plus performance against individual objectives.
2 The bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors for 2011 12 averaged 46 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity, reflecting the highly stretching performance targets that were set at the start of the financial year.
3 The Deferred Share Award demonstrates the link between Sainsburys strategic goals and its incentive plan framework.
4 Awards made under the third plan cycle, covering 2011 12, recognised the progress that has been made on the annual targets that are firmly focused on building long-term, sustainable success.
Most of the targets set were either achieved or exceeded, further contributing to the creation of shareholder value, and awards will be made to all participants at 78 per cent of the maximum available under the plan.
5 The fourth cycle of the Value Builder plan was based on growth in ROCE and cash flow per share, with performance measured over the three financial years to 17 March 2012.
Over the period the Company made substantial improvements in both cash generation and the returns achieved on our assets.
Awards vested at 43 per cent of the maximum opportunity: one half of the shares to vest become exercisable in May 2012, and the balance will be exercisable in May 2013.
Note: The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan is a dormant plan described on page 61.
No matching shares vested in respect of the 2009 grant which was tested at the end of the financial year.
143,818 matching shares were awarded in March 2011 in respect of the 2008 grant which was tested at the end of the 2010 11 financial year.
This report The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys This report is made by the Board on the recommendation of the website www.
The first part of the report sets out the remuneration policy, while the second part details the remuneration, Tim Fallowfield, Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the pensions and share plan interests of the Directors for the 52 weeks to Committee.
David Tyler, Justin King and Gwyn Burr, Customer Service 17 March 2012.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared and Colleague Director, are invited to attend Committee meetings, in in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provision addition to Diana Breeze, Director of Corporate HR.
The Committee of Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups considers their views when reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
Directors and Operating Board Directors.
Individuals who attend Remuneration Committee meetings do not participate in discussions A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting concerning their own remuneration.
AGM on 11 July 2012 asking them to approve this report.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external Remuneration Committee advisers if it considers this beneficial.
Over the course of the year, The Remuneration Committee comprises Bob Stack Chairman, the Committee was supported by its appointed advisers, Deloitte LLP Anna Ford and Mary Harris.
Mary joined the Committee in July 2011, Deloitte, whose consultants attended all of the Committee meetings.
All members of the Committee are independent Deloitte provided the Company with unrelated advice and consultancy Non-Executive Directors.
Mary Harris will become Chairman of the regarding information technology, online strategy, and a range of Committee when Bob Stack steps down from the Board in July 2012. taxation matters.
Towers Watson provided comparative data which was considered by the Committee in setting remuneration levels and it also Role and responsibilities of the Committee provided actuarial services in the year.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The responsibilities of the Committee include: calculations are supplied by UBS, who provided broking and banking services to the Company during the year.
determining and agreeing with the Board the broad remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and the Operating Board Directors: setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Executive Directors: recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for those members of senior management within the scope of the Committee, namely the Operating Board Directors and any other executive whose salary exceeds that of any Operating Board Director: considering the achievement of the performance conditions under annual bonus and long-term incentive plans: and approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements.
54 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued Principal activities and matters addressed during 2011 12 The table below shows the items considered at each meeting, leading The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in up to the meeting in May where the key decisions regarding vesting addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.
outcomes and grants for the coming year are determined.
The Committee typically meets four times each year.
Standard Items 2011 12 Topics September Review of dilution under Company share plans Review of Chairmans fee Summary of share grants Corporate governance and market update review Performance update under outstanding incentive plans Initiate LTIP review January Initial salary review LTIP review Initial proposals for forward looking incentive plan designs Competitive review of Directors total remuneration packages Performance update under outstanding incentive plans Corporate governance update March Develop proposals for forward looking incentive plan designs Shareholder consultation process for revised LTIP Directors salary review decisions Performance update under outstanding incentive plans May Review of performance and vesting under Annual Bonus and Finalise LTIP design Deferred Share Award Review of performance and vesting under LTIP Determine incentive structure for coming year including finalisation of targets Remuneration report Remuneration Policy The design and scale of pension provision and other employment The Committee considers that the Remuneration Policy should drive benefits should be in line with wider market practice, placing a performance and complement the overall strategy of the Company.
particular emphasis on the retail sector.
It believes that the ongoing growth and success of the Company Incentive plans should be linked to stretching performance measures during challenging market conditions is testament to this approach.
and targets, covering a mix of financial and non-financial measures.
It is committed to ensuring that the management team is rewarded for The measures are reviewed and monitored to ensure that they do not continuing to deliver the Companys growth plans and is appropriately drive unacceptable behaviours or encourage excessive risk-taking.
aligned with the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Incentive plan awards are not pensionable.
The Companys current arrangements, therefore, incorporate A significant proportion of the total remuneration package is performance metrics which link to the business strategy, and performance-related, aligning managements and shareholders specifically the five areas of focus as described in the Business review interests.
Exceptional levels of performance will be rewarded with which are directed towards generating good long-term growth.
exceptional levels of total reward.
The Committee expects the Executive Directors and Operating Board Directors to acquire and maintain a shareholding in the Company The Companys Remuneration Policy is as follows: sufficient to align their interests with those of shareholders.
It remains the Committees intention that Directors remuneration should be competitive, both in terms of base salary and total When reviewing or amending remuneration arrangements, the remuneration.
This approach is designed to promote the Companys Committee considers any impact on the cost to the Company, employee short and long-term successes through the securing of high calibre behaviour, pay practices across the Company, stakeholders including executive talent.
This, in turn, is one of the key ways in which shareholders, governance bodies and employees, share dilution, best shareholder value can be further created and strengthened.
practice corporate governance and market competitiveness, particularly within the retail sector.
Basic salaries should be market competitive, determined by drawing on a range of factors.
The Committee considers the individuals experience, potential, performance, job size and scope, along with data that takes into account the remuneration of comparable executive roles in similar companies.
The Committee also has regard to the external business environment and the general level of increases applied across the Company.
A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 55 55 Remuneration report continued Components of remuneration The main remuneration components for the Executive Directors and Operating Board Directors comprise basic salary, pensions and benefits and awards under variable incentive plans.
Fixed pay Element Purpose Policy Salary and benefits Core element of remuneration, paid for doing the Consideration given to a number of internal and external expected day-to-day job to a good standard factors.
Benefits may include the provision of company car benefits, life assurance, colleague discount and private medical cover Pension Market competitive pension, or cash contribution in lieu, Combination of defined contribution and pension provides an income following retirement supplements.
Defined benefit plan closed to new participants Variable pay Element Purpose Timeframe Performance metrics Annual Bonus Incentivise performance on an One-year Profit, sales and customer-focused measures plus annual basis against key financial and individual objectives non-financial targets and individual objectives Deferred Share Award Recognise and reward for delivery of One-year performance Basket of metrics, covering: short-term objectives which contribute period plus two year financial performance: towards long-term sustainable growth.
deferral returns to shareholders: Balance with Annual Bonus to ensure management remain mindful of longrelative performance against peers: and term consequences of short-term strategic goals actions Long-Term Incentive Recognise and reward for delivery of Three-year performance For 2012 13 awards: Plan Company performance and shareholder period ROCE 50% : value over the longer-term cumulative underlying cash flow from Half of the award is operations 30% : and Share-based to provide greater deferred for a further alignment with shareholder interests year relative sales 20% The relative proportion of the remuneration package that these elements represent at target performance are set out in the diagram below.
Chief Executive Other Executive Directors Annual Annual Salary, pension and benefits DSALTIP Salary, pension and benefits DSALTIP Bonus Bonus FixedVariable FixedVariable Cash Shares Cash Shares 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20%40% 60%80% 100% Proportion of the overall remuneration package Proportion of the overall remuneration package The balance between the fixed pay basic salary, pension and benefits variable elements, cash and shares and the phased delivery of rewards and variable pay Annual Bonus, Deferred Share Award and Long-Term over time.
Incentive Plan changes with performance, and the variable proportion of total remuneration increases significantly for increased levels of The sections below describe each component of the Executive performance.
Around 60 per cent of the package is delivered through variable pay at i Fixed remuneration on-target performance and this proportion increases to around threequarters of the package at stretch levels of performance.
Basic salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the The Committee believes that it is important to align the interests of both Committee, taking account of a number of elements, including the management and shareholders and therefore a significant proportion of Directors performance, experience, responsibilities and job size and the Executive Directors remuneration is made in the form of shares.
scope, as well as external pay data.
Furthermore, the Committee considers such information as economic factors, remuneration trends Overall, the Committee considers that the overall package structure and focuses in particular on the general level of salary increases is balanced, from the perspective of the breakdown between fixed and awarded throughout the Company.
The Committee uses the same approach when reviewing the salaries of the Operating Board Directors.
56 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued The external pay data provided to the Committee is sourced from assessed performance against the performance targets at the start of relevant roles within the UK retail sector, in companies with annual the year, and for guidance, the outturn is as follows: sales revenues over 5 billion and also in companies with a market capitalisation ranging from 3-10 billion.
This approach ensures that CustomerIndividual Profit Sales focused performance the most appropriate available benchmark for the Directors specific position is obtained: however, in line with best practice, the Committee Above target applies judgement when considering market data.
Target Threshold The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries for the start of the 2012 13 financial year.
In the context of another good year, the Below threshold Committee agreed salary increases for 2012 13 that were in line with the range of awards applied to management and non-management central During the year the Company achieved year-on-year growth in sales colleagues 2 per cent.
The hourly paid retail colleague award for and profit but the sales performance was below the threshold level.
The bonus outcome reflects the highly stretching targets which were set across all elements of the plan at the start of the year.
Based on An increase in Justin Kings basic salary of 20,000, from 920,000 the above performance outcomes, the bonus payments for 2011 12 will to 940,000. be 55.9 per cent of salary for Justin King, 43.7 per cent of salary for Increases in John Rogers and Mike Coupes basic salaries of 10,000 John Rogers and 42.2 per cent of salary for Mike Coupe.
The 2011 12 bonus plan for store colleagues was based on the achievement of a corporate sales target as well as customer service In aggregate their total salaries have increased by 40,000, in line targets measured in their individual stores.
The Companys performance with the overall budget of 2 per cent of their combined 2011 12 has enabled around 125,000 colleagues to earn awards from a bonus basic salaries.
Pensions For 2012 13, the bonus measures will remain unchanged and the targets The Companys Defined Benefit Pension Plan was closed to new will be set to incentivise stretching year-on-year growth.
The maximum members on 31 January 2002 and none of the Executive Directors annual bonus award opportunities will also remain unchanged at 125 participates in it.
per cent of basic salary for the Chief Executive and 90 per cent of basic salary for the other Executive Directors.
In lieu of pension plan participation, Justin King receives a pension supplement of 30 per cent of salary whilst Mike Coupe receives a Deferred Share Award pension supplement of 25 per cent of salary.
The Deferred Share Award DSA is intended to drive performance against a diverse range of business-critical financial and non-financial John Rogers participates in the JS Self Invested Pension Plan, a defined scorecard measures.
These are intended to reward Directors for contribution arrangement which is open to all senior management.
achieving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building In return for contributing five per cent of his salary, the Company the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company.
contributes 12.5 per cent of his salary up to an internal earnings cap 129,600 for 2011 12.
He receives a pension supplement of 25 per cent The DSA covers broadly the top 40 managers in the Company, including of the pensionable salary he was paid in excess of the earnings cap.
Share-based awards are made to participants subject to performance against a basket of key strategic measures Benefits which are aligned under four broad categories: Benefits for Directors include the provision of company car benefits, life assurance, colleague discount and private medical cover.
1. financial performance: 2. returns to shareholders: ii Variable remuneration current plans 3. relative performance against peers: and 4. strategic goals.
Annual bonus plan All bonus plans across the Company are aligned under a set of common At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of principles.
For 2011 12, Board and management plans retained the financial performance e. g. profit, earnings per share and sales and same key metrics based on profit and sales growth, customer-focused returns to shareholders e. g. TSR and dividend yield.
The balance will measures, plus an element for individual performance.
be based on measures which will assess the Companys performance relative to its competitors e. g. market share as well as key strategic Bonus awards are weighted to the achievement of profit, and it corporate goals, linked to the five areas of focus.
In addition, no shares continues to act as the overall gateway measure for the plan, will be awarded unless the profit gateway target as applied to the reflecting the emphasis on growing profit.
For Executive Directors, annual bonus plan is achieved.
at least half of the bonus is based on profit, and the remainder is based on sales, customer-focused targets and the achievement of Performance against the targets is measured over one financial year, individual objectives.
but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that managements interests continue to be aligned with those of The customer-focused measures for 2011 12 were revised to be based shareholders.
The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant on: i availability, which is measured across all stores on a regular basis resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends by an independent third party, conducting random and unannounced accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
store visits, and ii a customer service measure which is also assessed by an independent third party.
Individual performance objectives When developing the DSA, the Committee gave careful consideration are set annually for each Executive Director and are reviewed by the to the selection of its performance measures and targets, as well as to Committee.
These objectives cover a variety of financial and operational the robustness of the plan design.
In reviewing the plan, the Committee targets that contribute to the achievement of longer-term strategic has agreed that appropriate corporate responsibility targets would be goals: some of these objectives relate, either directly or indirectly, included within the strategic goals category.
During the year, the Committee conducted an interim appraisal to gauge The maximum cash bonus that could have been earned for 2011 12 was the progress of performance and the plans effectiveness based on half 125 per cent of salary in respect of the Chief Executive and 90 per cent year results.
of salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
The Committee A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 57 57 Remuneration report continued The Company has performed well in 2011 12, and this has flowed During the year, we continued to develop new businesses, including through to the basket of measures that the Committee considered for the launch of Sainsburys Energy in partnership with British Gas and the purposes of making awards under the DSA.
Although some of the our first hospital outpatient pharmacy at the James Cook Hospital specific measures and targets are commercially sensitive, the sections in South Tees.
By moving into areas that are a natural extension of below present a selection of performance highlights within each of the our brand we aim to grow value based on the trust people have in four categories.
Sainsburys, our colleagues and our values.
Expanding and developing the store estate continued to be at the Financial performance heart of the Companys strategy.
During the year, we added 1.4 Underlying profit before tax improved by 7.1 per cent to 712 million.
million sq ft of gross space achieved through the opening of 19 new Underlying operating margin improved by four basis points to 3.54 or replacement supermarkets, the extension of 28 supermarkets and per cent, or ten basis points at constant fuel prices.
Underlying basic the opening of 73 new convenience stores.
Our investments made earnings per share increased by 6.0 per cent to 28.1 pence.
over the past few years continue to deliver returns above our required hurdle and have helped to deliver sales growth and drive property Return to shareholders value.
Our return on capital employed was 11.1 per cent, a year-on-year The Company saw its seventh consecutive year of like-for-like sales movement of 2 basis points.
ROCE growth was held back by the growth, with like-for-like sales including VAT, excluding fuel of 2.1 cumulative effect of our accelerated investment in our space growth per cent.
Our strong sales performance helped us to maintain a programme.
The Company still has a strong pipeline of sites for future strong balance sheet, with return on capital employed of 11.1 per cent.
development, both for new stores and extensions.
This has enabled the Company to maintain a good level of returns to shareholders.
The recommended full year dividend increased 6.6 The market value of the Companys freehold property portfolio per cent to 16.1 pence, covered 1.75 times by underlying earnings.
Our increased by 0.7 billion to 11.2 billion, as a result of 1.0 billion dividend yield and price earnings ratio remain amongst the highest in from investment and development activity offset by 0.3 billion the sector.
TSR was assessed on both a relative and absolute basis over from sales of properties.
By taking advantage of competitive market one, three and five-year periods.
pricing on these dry assets, the Company generated 83 million of property profits.
Relative performance The Companys corporate responsibility commitments have moved Our sales grew ahead of the market, with market share increasing to on significantly during the year.
In October, we launched a 1 billion 16.6 per cent despite the continuing difficult consumer environment.
For plan, to ensure the Company remains at the forefront of sustainability the 46 weeks from 20 March 2011 to 4 February 2012 we outperformed between now and 2020.
The Sainsburys 20 by 20 Sustainability the IGD pool by 0.6 per cent source: IGD Market Track in compliance Plan sets out 20 sustainability targets to be achieved by 2020.
Our with the Market Track 12 week exclusion rule.
We grew our customer industry-leading approach has also been recognised through our numbers by a further one million to 22 million per week, demonstrating inclusion in the globally respected Dow Jones Sustainability Index, for our universal customer appeal and ability to reach more customers a number of years.
We have also retained our Platinum Plus status in through our store opening programme and multichannel offer.
We won the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, the the top award in the Retail Industry Awards 2011 for the second time highest external accolade in the UK.
In December 2011, we pledged in three years and for a second year running won the Convenience our support for Comic Relief and Sport Relief for another six years, Chain of the Year award.
Since the trial of Brand Match in August 2011, which will see the total raised by colleagues and customers pass 100 research has shown that the number of customers that agree that million.
This years Sport Relief total was 5.5 million.
Sainsburys sells brands at the same price as other supermarkets has risen from 68 per cent to 80 per cent.
Following the year-end, the Committee conducted a rigorous assessment of performance.
Consistent with the underlying principles Strategic goals of the DSA, the Committee assessed achievements in the round, and The Companys strategy continues to centre on our five areas of focus.
also considered the manner in which these strategic goals had been These are underpinned by Sainsburys strong heritage and brand which delivered, in particular how the overall performance of the Company consistently set it apart from major competitors.
Further details on the had contributed to its future, sustainable growth and success.
corporate objectives can be found in the Business review, and details of the corporate responsibility commitments are summarised on The Committee agreed that for 2011 12, awards would be made at 78 pages 8 to 9. per cent of the maximum level.
This translates into a share award of 98 per cent of salary for Justin King and 70 per cent of salary for the other We made good progress with our Great Food programme, rolling Executive Directors.
We successfully re-launched our core own label by Sainsburys brand, with 3,700 products new or improved.
The Committee has reviewed the DSAs performance framework for We further improved our customer offer by introducing a Bakery 2012 13: the four performance categories and metrics will remain College and six Food Colleges to equip our colleagues with the consistent with those agreed for 2011 12.
The maximum DSA award ability to deliver consistently great products to our customers, opportunities will also remain unchanged at 125 per cent of basic salary training 18,000 colleagues.
We were proud to receive City & Guilds for the Chief Executive and 90 per cent of basic salary for the other accreditation for the Colleges.
Our compelling general merchandise and clothing ranges continued to grow significantly faster than food, driven by our focus on category Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 champions and, in clothing, by the launch of a number of Gok for At its launch in 2006, this plan covered the Companys core Tu ladieswear collections with the celebrity designer, Gok Wan.
We management from the Chief Executive to supermarket store managers.
continued to make it easier for our customers to shop for general From 2011 12, awards have covered around 200 of the Companys top merchandise by increasing our Click & Collect offer to over 900 stores leaders only, including the Executive Directors.
An alternative reward across the country.
We also continued to expand our online presence, framework was designed for supermarket store managers and other with the acquisition of Global Media Vault Limited building our online managers of an equivalent grade, which incentivises them against a entertainment capability.
range of operational and financial measures that are closely aligned to their roles.
We continued the development of our multi-channel offer.
Strong growth in the Convenience business, which now generates sales of Under the plan, a core award of shares in the Company is granted 1.3 billion, was supported by the opening of a further 73 stores in the to all participants, calculated as a percentage of their salaries and year, in line with our plans to open one to two stores per week.
We scaled according to grade.
Vesting of core awards is dependent upon were also proud to receive the Convenience Chain of the Year award performance against specific measures tested at the end of a three year at the 2011 Retail Industry Awards.
Our online offer has continued to performance period.
No awards vest for performance below threshold expand and grew at 20 per cent year-on-year, delivering sales of 0.8 levels of performance and core awards can grow by up to four times at billion.
Sainsburys Bank has performed strongly in the year, with stretch levels of performance.
The performance Sainsburys share of underlying post tax profits up over 45 per cent.
measures and the targets are common for all participants.
58 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued The performance measures are reviewed each year by the Committee, The Committee determined that it was in the interests of both the before a new grant is made, to ensure that they remain relevant and Company and shareholders that the long-term incentives complement stretching.
The measures for the 2012 13 awards will focus on sustainable long-term growth while also improving visibility and Awards granted under the new framework described below are referred transparency for both management and shareholders.
As part of to as Future Builder awards.
Awards granted between 2006 and 2011 the design process the Committee consulted with major shareholders.
under the previous framework were referred to as Value Builder awards.
The feedback received from shareholders was taken into account during the design process and influenced the final design.
Future Builder review for 2012 13 awards During the course of 2011 12 the Remuneration Committee undertook an The review primarily focused on performance metrics and strategic in-depth review of the performance metrics which would apply to awards alignment, and therefore the maximum award levels for executive granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan for the 2012 13 cycle.
directors remain unchanged from last year.
The previous structure had been in operation since 2006, and therefore For 2012 13 awards, vesting will be subject to three performance the Committee considered it appropriate to review the extent to which criteria: ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations the performance targets supported the corporate ambitions of the and relative sales performance.
Company during the next phase of development.
Specifically, the intention was to ensure that awards complement the Companys future strategy as outlined in the Business review which would be achieved by delivering long-term sustainable performance in three key areas: Improving the returns from our existing supermarkets business both food and non-food : Driving growth through value-adding new stores and extensions: and Creating new business growth through investing further in our existing convenience and online channels, building our presence in financial services, and pursuing new opportunities, for example Energy and Pharmacy.
Element Performance metrics ROCE ROCE reflects the value we gain from our assets, and as such is a critical measure of the quality of our business activity and the efficiency of capital use, and is therefore retained from the previous structure.
To increase the transparency around this measure and bring greater consistency with published results, we propose to adjust the definition to reflect externally reported ROCE more closely, by removing the effect of the Group pension scheme.
In particular, an adjustment was previously made to the calculation for capital investments in the final year of the performance period.
In line with our reported results, this adjustment will not be made in future years.
Subsequently, the targets have been re-articulated to relate to the new definition.
The Committee considers that the revised targets are of comparable stretch to the previous targets, taking into account the additional investment built into the business plan over the performance period.
Cumulative The definition of cash flow used under previous schemes had become highly complex and opaque for both participants and underlying shareholders.
cash flow from Therefore, for future awards the target will be based on cumulative underlying cash flow from operations over the operations performance period after adding back net rent and cash pension costs.
The Committee is of the view that this definition of cash flow provides a better measure of both cash flow and underlying profitability than the previous definition.
In addition a cumulative target is also inherently more stretching than a point-topoint growth measure.
Relative sales This is an important metric used across the retail sector.
Outperforming our direct peers on sales will be a key source of value for our shareholders, and therefore the Committee believes that this should be incentivised within the LTIP.
Like-forlike sales are also the biggest driver for profitability and returns.
Since any profitable growth will primarily arise from outperforming in the UK market, it is proposed to measure sales performance against the Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD Index on a like-for-like basis.
The IGD Index measures growth in like-for-like sales excluding fuel across the market based on the performance of all of the Companys key competitors.
This is an independently audited index of sales efficiency, which is viewed as a robust reference point for performance across the food retail sector.
To retain visibility of vesting levels, shareholders will be provided with details of how the Company has performed against the index at the end of the period.
The growth targets have been set taking into account our current competitive position and longer term sustainable growth aspirations.
Threshold vesting requires the Company to at least match the index over the period with full vesting requiring outperformance of the index.
The relative sales objective is fully aligned with the core strategy of the The vesting of all elements of the plan will be subject to delivery of a business, and the Committee is satisfied that the presence of ROCE profit gateway.
This provides consistency with our Annual Bonus and and cash flow targets will ensure management are incentivised towards Deferred Share Award, and is intended to provide shareholders with efficient and profitable sales growth.
additional comfort that the underlying profitability of the business must be sound for payouts to occur.
For the 2012 award, no element of the award will vest if compound EPS growth equivalent to at least four per cent per annum is not achieved across the performance period.
A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 59 59 Remuneration report continued The performance conditions attached to the 2012 13 awards are summarised in the table below.
Threshold Maximum Component Weighting 1.0x core award 4.0x core award Return on Capital Employed 50% 10.75% 12% 1 Cash flow 30% 5,500m 6,500m Relative Sales v IGD index 20% Meet index Index 1.0% per annum EPS Gateway No part of the award will be eligible to vest if compound EPS growth equivalent to 4% per annum is not achieved 1 Cumulative underlying cash flow from operations after adding back net rent and pension costs.
Straight-line vesting will operate between the threshold and maximum The performance period for the 2009 10 Value Builder grant ended in targets shown above.
March 2012, and its performance conditions were assessed against the following matrix.
The Committee retains the discretion to make adjustments to the 2009 10 and 2010 11 Cash flow per share calculation of the performance measures for instance for material Pre-tax adjusted acquisitions and disposals to ensure they remain true and fair ROCE 3% 6% 9% 12% 15% reflections of performance.
15% 1.5 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 14% 1.0 1.5 2.5 3.0 3.5 The Committee considers that the stretch of the targets set for 2012 13 13% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.5 3.0 awards is comparable to awards granted in previous years, and that 12% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.5 delivery of stretch targets would result in significant shareholder value 11% 0.5 1.0 1.5 creation.
As noted above, the other key features of the plan shall remain Note: Full definitions of ROCE and cash flow per share can be found in the 2010 11 Annual Report unchanged.
The quantum for executive directors is unchanged from last and Accounts.
Accordingly, for 2012 13, the Chief Executive will be granted a core award of 55 per cent of salary.
The remaining Executive Directors will The Committee determined a final performance multiplier of 1.7 times, each be granted a core award of 50 per cent of salary.
The performance based on adjusted ROCE of 13.2 per cent and cash flow per share period shall continue to be measured over three financial years with half CFPS of 9.0 per cent.
This represents 43 per cent of the maximum of the award deferred for a further year.
When assessing ROCE and CFPS performance for the purposes of the plan, adjustments were made to take into account Claw-back capital investment in the final year of the performance period and As part of the review, the Remuneration Committee was also mindful certain limited one-off investments.
of recent developments in best practice.
Subsequently, in order to strengthen our formal governance in line with our existing philosophy, One half of the award becomes exercisable in May 2012, with the and in recognition of shareholders current concerns around executive remaining portion exercisable in May 2013. remuneration, the Committee has introduced a claw-back malus clause on the 2012 13 awards.
This clause is intended to apply to all future The 2010 11 award will be tested for performance against the ROCE awards under the LTIP.
and CFPS targets in March 2013, and is subject to the matrix above.
The circumstances in which the clause may be invoked have been The 2011 12 award will be tested for performance against the ROCE and defined as follows: CFPS targets in March 2014.
The matrix was considered and agreed by the Committee prior to these awards to ensure the degree of challenge Material mis-statement of our financial inherent in the targets was commensurate with internal and external Financial Accounts statements performance expectations at the time of grant, and is presented below.
Serious Reputational Damage Actions Conduct 2011 12 Cash flow per share Serious Misconduct of Participant Pre-tax adjusted Fraud ROCE 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% 15% 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.0 Should the Committee consider such events to have occurred, it will 14.5% 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 have discretion to: 14% 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 13.5% 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 reduce the number of shares under an unvested award: 13% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 12.5% 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 cancel an unvested award in full: or impose further conditions on an unvested award.
Performance was assessed in May 2011 in respect of the Value Builder Share Plan awards granted in 2008 09.
Pre-tax adjusted ROCE of 13.4 The Committee believes that this provision is consistent with the per cent and CFPS of 9.9 per cent were achieved over the three-year principles underpinning our existing approach to governance and performance period, which gave rise to a performance multiplier of is therefore a positive development for both the Company and 1.9 out of a maximum four times.
This performance outcome led to shareholders.
the vesting of 48 per cent of the total award for all plan participants, including the Executive Directors.
One half of the award became Previous Long Term Incentive Plan Cycles Value Builder awards exercisable in May 2011, with the remaining portion exercisable Awards made under the plan between 2006 and 2011 were subject to in May 2012.
The number of shares awarded from this grant cycle three-year performance against two stretching co-dependent measures: to the Executive Directors is set out on page 63.
ROCE and cash flow per share.
For the 2006-2011 awards, the capital employed figure used to calculate ROCE was adjusted for one-off impact of capital spend in the year in which the calculation is made.
60 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued iii Variable remuneration dormant share plan Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 2006 Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan previously applied to the top levels of remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee management, including Executive Directors.
Its purpose was to incentivise share awards does not exceed ten per cent of the Companys issued growth in relative TSR.
The plan is now dormant and the last deferral took share capital for all-employee share plans and five per cent in respect place in June 2009 using the bonus awards earned for 2008 09. of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Committee reviews Following the year-end, performance was tested in respect of the these at least once a year.
Up to 17 March 2012, an estimated 7.8 per deferral made in 2009 and this resulted in no matching shares vesting.
cent of the Companys issued share capital has been allocated for Details of the Executive Directors awards under this incentive plan are the purposes of its all employee share plans over a ten-year period, set out in the table on page 64. including an estimated 3.7 per cent over five years in respect of its executive share plans.
iv All employee share plans In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company Performance graph provides two all employee share plans for colleagues, namely the The graph below shows the TSR performance of an investment of Savings Related Share Option Plan SAYE and the All Employee Share 100 in J Sainsbury plc shares over the last five years compared with Ownership Plan.
Executive Directors may participate in these plans an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index.
This has been selected in the same way as all other colleagues.
Justin King and John Rogers to provide an established and broad-based index.
currently participate in both plans.
Mike Coupe participates in the SAYE.
TSR Performance since March 2007 As these are all employee plans there are no performance conditions.
The Committee approves the adoption or amendment of these plans Sainsburys FTSE 100 and awards to Executive Directors.
150 150 The 2006 five-year SAYE reached maturity on 1 March 2012.
Around 3,300 colleagues could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy Sainsburys shares at a 328 pence option price.
The 2008 three-year 125 125 SAYE matured at the same time covering around 7,700 colleagues who could use their savings and a tax-free bonus to buy Sainsburys 100 100 shares at a 224 pence option price.
Using the market price on the date of the first exercise, the value of all the shares subject to the maturity was nearly 26.5 million.
The Company currently has over 26,000 75 75 colleagues participating in the SAYE with around 63,000 individual savings contracts.
50 50 In August 2008, the Company introduced a matching element to the Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 partnership element of the All Employee Share Ownership Plan on a buy four get one free basis.
This arrangement ceased in August 2010.
In March 2007 the Group share price was materially affected by These matching shares must be held for five years to receive all of the speculation surrounding a possible takeover bid.
To exclude the relevant tax benefits and will be forfeited if the individual resigns from impact of this short-term share price increase, we have presented the Company within the first three years.
below a graph which shows the TSR performance over seven years.
Shareholding guidelines TSR Performance since March 2005 The Committee introduced shareholding guidelines in 2006 07 to create greater alignment of the Directors interests with those of shareholders, Sainsburys which is a key objective within the remuneration policy.
The guidelines FTSE 100 are as follows: Chief Executive 2.5x salary: Executive Directors: 1.5x 175 175 salary: Operating Board Directors: 1x salary, in each case within five years of appointment.
These guidelines were last updated in 2010 11.
150 150 The table below sets out the Executive Directors shareholdings as at the year end on 17 March 2012.
125 125 Valuation Percentage of 1 2 Shareholding 000 salary 100 100 Justin King 825,519 2,501 272% Mike Coupe 866,411 2,625 465% John Rogers 192,496 583 117% 75 75 1 T he valuation is calculated against the closing mid-market share price on 17 March 2012 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 of 303.0 pence.
2 The percentage of salary figures have been calculated using the salaries earned as at 17 March 2012.
A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 61 61 Remuneration report continued Service contracts External appointments Justin King has a service contract which can be terminated by either The Companys normal practice is that Executive Directors may take up party by giving 12 months written notice.
If his service contract is one public company non-executive role outside the Company, subject terminated without cause, the Company can request that he works his to a consideration of the role and the time commitment.
Directors are notice period or takes a period of garden leave, or can pay an amount entitled to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
Details of the in lieu of notice equal to one times basic salary for the notice period plus Executive Directors external fees are set out on page 63.
75 per cent of basic salary in lieu of all other elements of remuneration, except share plans.
If he is dismissed within six months of a change Chairman of control, the above sum will become payable.
The contract contains The Chairman does not have a service contract: his letter of restrictive covenants, which continue for 12 months after termination.
appointment became effective on 1 October 2009 and he became Chairman on 1 November 2009.
He was appointed for an initial term If the service contract of Mike Coupe is terminated without cause, the of three years, renewable on a 12-month rolling basis and thereafter maximum payment he would receive would be equal to one times basic by mutual consent.
His appointment may be terminated at any time salary for the 12 month notice period plus 50 per cent of basic salary upon the serving of six months written notice by either party.
in lieu of all other elements of remuneration, except share plans.
He is required to mitigate his losses and would receive phased payments, David Tyler was appointed as Chairman on a basic fee of 450,000 which would be reduced or terminated if he secured alternative per annum.
His fee was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee employment during the notice period.
His contract also contains for the first time since his appointment at the half year in 2011 12 restrictive covenants, which continue for 12 months after termination.
and it was increased to 470,000 per annum.
He devotes such time It does not contain any specific provisions relating to change of control.
as is necessary to perform his duties.
He does not participate in any performance-related incentive plans and he does not receive any In 2010, the Committee agreed that the termination provisions within benefits except for an annual medical assessment and a colleague future Executive Directors service agreements would state that any discount card.
severance payments would be limited to one years salary and benefits, be made on a phased basis and be subject to mitigation.
As is the Non-Executive Directors current practice, if good leaver status is given, long-term incentive Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are awards that vest following a directors employment termination will appointed for an initial three-year period, which may be extended for continue to be pro-rated for time and performance.
Bonus awards will a further term by mutual consent.
The initial appointments and any also be paid subject to time and performance for the financial year in subsequent re-appointments are subject to election or re-election which office is held if the individual is considered to be a good leaver.
Their appointments may be terminated by the serving The service contract under which John Rogers was appointed as Chief of three months notice by either party.
Financial Officer follows these provisions in full: in addition, there are no specific terms relating to change of control.
Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual cash fee: additional fees are paid to the Senior Independent Director and to the Chairmen As disclosed in last years report, Darren Shapland ceased to be a of the Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
director on 13 July 2011 and was subsequently appointed to the position Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performance-related of Non-Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank for a fixed annual fee incentive plans and receive no benefits other than a colleague of 150,000 per annum plus benefits, and in this capacity earned a discount card.
Darren did not receive either a severance payment or an ex gratia payment as a result of the change in his The Non-Executive Directors fees were last increased in September employment status.
2009: they were reviewed by a sub-committee of other members of the Board during 2011 12 and were increased to the following levels: The Executive Directors service contracts became effective on the following dates: Basic fee 60,000 from 55,000 Senior Independent Director fee 15,000 unchanged Justin King 29 March 2004 Chairman of Remuneration Committee fee 15,000 unchanged Mike Coupe 1 August 2007 Chairman of Audit Committee fee 15,000 unchanged John Rogers 19 July 2010 Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee fee 12,500 from 10,000 The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment became effective on the following dates: Matt Brittin 27 January 2011 Anna Ford 2 May 2006 Mary Harris 1 August 2007 Gary Hughes 1 January 2005 John McAdam 1 September 2005 Bob Stack 1 January 2005 62 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued The following section provides details of the remuneration, pension and share plan interests of the Directors for the 52 weeks ended 17 March 2012 and has been audited.
These shares are retained by the Company for two financial years and will not become exercisable by the participants until after the year-end in 2014.
3 Appointed to the Board on 27 January 2011.
4 Resigned from the Board on 13 July 2011.
In his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank, Darren Shapland earned a salary of 107,308 in 2011 12 following his resignation from the Board of J Sainsbury plc.
5 Includes performance bonuses earned in the period under review but paid following the end of the financial year.
6 Justin King is not a member of the Companys pension plans and received 30 per cent of his basic salary as a cash pension supplement.
In addition to this supplement, 440 2011: 440 of interest has been earned on a notional fund during the year from his previous membership of the Executive Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Neither Darren Shapland nor Mike Coupe are members of the Companys pension plans each received 25 per cent of basic salary as a cash pension supplement.
John Rogers is a member of the Companys JS Self Invested Pension Plan.
Contributions to the JS Self Invested Pension Plan by the Company in 2011 12 in respect of his membership were 16,200 2010 11 15,450.
He received a cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the amount by which his salary exceeded the Companys earnings cap 2011 12: 129,600 2010 11:123,600.
7 The totals for 2012 and 2011 in the case of John Rogers do not include deductions made from basic salary for Saving Money and Reducing Tax SMART pensions.
8 Benefits include a combination of cash and non-cash benefits.
Non-cash benefits for John Rogers, Darren Shapland and Mike Coupe include car allowance and private medical cover.
Justin King received non-cash benefits which include company car benefits and private medical cover.
9 Directors are entitled to retain the fees earned from non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Justin King was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Staples, Inc. on 17 September 2007.
During the year 8,653 2010 11: 11,540 of restricted Staples stock was released to Justin and a further award over 11,372 shares was granted 2010 11: 8,653 restricted shares awarded.
Justin King is also a Director of Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Limited and a member of the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Justin received 10,500 2010 11: 12,000 during the year for his services which after deductions for National Insurance was donated directly to charity.
Mike Coupe was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc on 26 July 2011 and received 29,604 for his services.
Darren Shapland was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Ladbrokes plc on 18 November 2009 and received 25,000 for his services up to his resignation from the Board of J Sainsbury plc on 13 July 2012 2010 11: 58,800. ii Long-term incentive plans Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 The table below shows the conditional awards granted under this Plan, which would be released if the Company achieves the performance targets for maximum vesting.
2 The performance conditions attaching to the award are return on capital employed and growth in cash flow per share.
Further information is provided on pages 113 to 114.
The performance of the award made in June 2008 was tested in May 2011 and a multiplier of 1.9 was achieved.
The number of shares between the maximum multiplier 4.0 and the multiplier achieved have been lapsed.
Half of the achieved award vested in May 2011 whilst the remainder of the achieved award will vest in May 2012.
The number of dividend shares which have been received on vested shares was determined by a five-day average share price from 12 to 18 May 2011.
Note: The Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 is a nil-cost option plan.
The exercise price is nil.
A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 63 63 Remuneration report continued The following table shows the options that were exercised during the year.
Number of Number of options options Midmarket Notional gain released exercised price on date on option Number of during the during the of exercise exercises Lapsed during options held 17 Exercise price Date of grant year year pence 000 the year March 2012 pence Justin King 20.06.07 178,349 178,349 304.1 542 nil 28.05.08 169,784 169,784 304.1 516 nil Mike Coupe 20.06.07 76,375 76,375 343.2 262 nil 28.05.08 75,856 75,856 343.2 260 nil John Rogers 20.06.07 26,436 26,436 316.4 84 nil 28.05.08 38,940 38,940 316.4 123 nil Note: Some of the shares were sold to fund the participants income tax and National Insurance liabilities, all of the remaining shares were retained.
Deferred Share Award The table below shows the number of deferred shares awarded to participants in May 2010 and 2011.
There are no further performance measures attached to the awards.
The Deferred Share Award is a nil-cost option plan.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The table below shows the maximum number of shares conditionally allocated to participants and what would be released to them in the form of nil-cost options if the Company achieves the performance targets for maximum vesting.
Number of Matching dividend Deferred Maximum Share price at share award shares Number bonus share matching date of award lapsed during allocated of options First exercise Last exercise 1 Date of grant award share award pence the year 19 May 2011 released date date Justin King 20.06.08 158,042 316,084 325.75 172,266 9,575 81,484 21.03.11 21.03.13 24.06.09 81,319 275,658 314.00 20.03.12 20.03.14 Mike Coupe 20.06.08 18,292 36,584 325.75 19,939 1,108 9,430 21.03.11 21.03.13 24.06.09 23,280 78,920 314.00 20.03.12 20.03.14 John Rogers 20.06.08 7,513 15,026 325.75 8,189 455 3,873 21.03.11 21.03.13 1 The maximum matching share award is the maximum award that would become exercisable provided that the Company achieves first position within the comparator group of Ahold, Carrefour, Casino, Delhaize, DSG International, Home Retail Group, Kingfisher, Marks & Spencer, Metro, Morrisons, Next and Tesco.
The Companys relative performance is determined by reference to Total Shareholder Return.
Notes: A number of the shares deferred in June 2008 have been sold to fund the participants income tax and National Insurance liabilities.
The remainder were released to participants on 25 March 2011.
The performance of the awards granted in June 2008 was tested and matching shares of 0.91 times an individuals deferral was achieved.
The number of dividend shares on the first vesting was determined by a five-day average share price from 12 to 18 May 2011.
The 2009 deferral was made on a net post tax basis.
The following table shows the options that were exercised during the year.
Number Number of options of options Midmarket Notional gain Number of released exercised price on date on option Number of options held during the during the of exercise exercises Lapsed during options held 17 Exercise price 19 March 2011 year year pence 000 the year March 2012 pence Justin King 81,484 81,484 304.1 248 nil Mike Coupe 9,430 9,430 343.2 32 nil John Rogers 3,873 3,873 316.4 12 nil Note: Some of the shares were sold to fund the participants income tax and National Insurance liabilities, all of the remaining shares were retained.
64 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued iii Savings-Related Share Option Plan SAYE At the end of the year, the Directors SAYE share options were as follows: Number of Options Date Midmarket Gains on Granted Exercised price on date option during the during the of exercise exercise Lapsed during Exercise price From which 19 March 2011 year year pence 000 the year 17 March 2012 pence exercisable Of expiry Justin King 3,030 3,030 297.0 01.03.14 31.08.14 Mike Coupe 3,324 3,324 273.0 01.03.13 31.08.13 John Rogers 6,302 6,302 238.0 01.03.17 31.08.17 Note: The SAYE Plan is an all employee share option plan and has no performance conditions as per HMRC Regulations.
In the period from 19 March 2011 to 17 March 2012, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 362.8 pence and the lowest midmarket price was 263.5 pence.
At 17 March 2012 the Companys share price was 303.0 pence.
2 The total includes shares purchased under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan between 17 March 2012 and 8 May 2012.
3 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan.
Note: The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Companys employee benefit trust, which is used to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans, and they are therefore treated as interested in the 5.9 million shares 2011: 6.1 million held by the Trustees.
Approved by the Board on 8 May 2012 Bob Stack Chairman, Remuneration Committee A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 J J S Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry y p pllc c 65 65 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 33 the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair financial statements, the Directors are required to: review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Tim Fallowfield prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Company Secretary it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
8 May 2012 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
66 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the financial statements of J Sainsbury plc for the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 52 weeks ended 17 March 2012 which comprise the Group income In our opinion: statement, the Group and Company Statements of comprehensive income, the Group and Company Balance sheets, the Group and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly Company Cash flow statements, the Group and Company statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting the information given in the Directors report for the financial year framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by financial statements.
the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation in our opinion: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to branches not visited by us: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of and returns: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any not made: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior we have not received all the information and explanations we require consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance the Directors statement, set out on page 37, in relation to going that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, concern: whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the parts of the Statement of Corporate Governance relating to the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Governance Code specified for our review: and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non Directors remuneration.
financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements for and on behalf of  LLP In our opinion: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 8 May 2012 Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 17 March 2012 and of the Groups profit and Groups and Companys cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 67
