108 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report to Shareholders for the year ended 31st March 2012 Contents Michael Roney Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee 108 Introduction to the Remuneration Report 108 Terms of Reference and Constitution of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC 109 Activities of the MDRC 109 Johnson Matthey Executive Remuneration Policy 110 Executive Remuneration Practices and Rules 2011 12 112 Outcomes Actual Remuneration for 2011 12 115 Other Historical and Statutory Information Terms of Reference and Constitution of the Introduction to the Remuneration Report Management Development and Remuneration Committee The overriding responsibility of a remuneration committee is to create MDRC the remuneration policies and practices that achieve the best value for shareholders.
Pay and incentives have to be set at the right level to The Management Development and attract and retain good management and to fully incentivise outstanding Remuneration Committee is a committee management performance, but at levels that are in line with the sector in of the board and comprises all the general, and that provide a fair return to shareholders.
independent non-executive directors of the This year, we recognise that the remuneration of senior executives is company as set out on page 83 and the group Chairman.
The Chairman of the under more scrutiny than ever before and we are mindful of the Committee was Robert Walvis until his principles of remuneration published by stakeholder representatives retirement on 19th July 2011, after which such as the Association of British Insurers ABI and of the potential Michael Roney took over the role.
revisions to governance outlined by the Department of Business, The Committees terms of reference Innovation and Skills.
This report seeks to be open and transparent in include determination on behalf of the board reporting on remuneration and on the basis for remuneration, both of fair remuneration for the Chief Executive, historically and going forward.
the other executive directors and the group The remuneration committee is also charged with ensuring that the Chairman in which case the group long term interests of the company and shareholders are taken fully into Chairman does not participate.
account, both in remuneration structure and in ensuring that good Non-executive directors remuneration is determined by the board, within the limits processes exist for management development and succession planning.
prescribed by the companys Articles of This is particularly important in a high technology company where R&D Association.
The remuneration consists of investment is required many years before those ideas come to fees, which are set following advice taken commercial fruition.
Therefore we aim to build remuneration policies and from independent consultants and are structures that reward performance over the long term and that reviewed at regular intervals.
encourage directors and employees to develop long term careers with In addition, the Committee assists the the company.
board in ensuring that the company has well I believe that the consistent results over the last decade, the developed plans for management consistency and success of a largely internally developed management succession, including the recruitment and team and the very strong year we have experienced in 2011 12 indicate development of senior management, along with appropriate remuneration policies to that we have good policies and practices in place.
However, we will ensure that management are retained and continue to review all aspects of remuneration, management motivated.
development and succession planning to ensure that shareholders The Group Director, Human Resources interests continue to be fully represented.
and Environment, Health and Safety HR and EHS acts as secretary to the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the companys website at www.
com in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section.
