Remuneration Report Pay and performance In determining the levels of executive reward, the Committee Remuneration continues to place considerable emphasis on ensuring a strong and demonstrable link between actual remuneration received, and the achievement of Kazakhmys strategic and business objectives.
The Report Committee sets stretching performance objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers.
To achieve these objectives and deliver performance requires outstanding business management This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in and strategic execution.
The annual bonus plan performance targets accordance with the reporting requirements of the Companies are therefore based on four equally weighted measures with a Act 2006 and Schedules 5 and 8 of The Large and Medium Sized clear alignment to the Groups KPIs and strategic priorities.
As safety Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. is a key priority of the Group, awards are also subject to a safety It also describes the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate override ensuring that payouts will be scaled back in the absence Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The Committee of improvement in the Groups safety performance.
The LTIP takes significant account of guidelines issued by the ABI, RREV and provides a focus on delivering superior returns to shareholders by other shareholder bodies when setting the remuneration framework.
providing rewards over a 41 month period for shareholder return It also seeks to maintain an active and productive dialogue with outperformance as measured by the Companys total shareholder investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate return against a comparator group of mining companies.
governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
Furthermore, in response to the UK The balance between xed and variable elements of remuneration governments new legislation regarding the reporting of Directors changes with performance.
Based on expected values at target remuneration and changes to shareholder voting rights, a number of and the average of the different remuneration elements for each the revised reporting requirements have been incorporated into this executive Director, the intended mix between xed and variable years remuneration report ahead of the legislation coming into force.
for Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay is that more than 60% of remuneration earned is performance-related.
At maximum, the Remuneration principles weighting of performance-related remuneration increases to The Groups success depends on the performance and commitment around 75% to 80% of remuneration earned.
Although Vladimir Kim of its employees.
Kazakhmys approach toward executive does not receive long term incentive awards, at target almost 40% performance, reward and benets supports and drives its strategy of his remuneration earned is performance-related, increasing and business objectives and reinforces its values in the context of to 55% at maximum.
This mix is shown in the charts below.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys remuneration Composition of pay: Vladimir Kim Executive Chairman policies and practices: t facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of high Outcome at target Outcome at stretch calibre executives with the appropriate skills to implement the Groups strategy and business objectives: 45% 62% t provide a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and the Groups strategy and business objectives: t set a performance-biased framework for remuneration which 38% is consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances, and which enables executive Directors and certain senior 55% managers to share in the long-term success of the Group, without delivering excessive benets or encouraging short-term Fixed pay Variable pay base salary short term measures or excessive risk taking: and t are aligned to shareholder interests.
Source: based on 2013 policy: does not take account of any share price growth.
The strategy for executive Director remuneration, in general terms, is to provide a balanced package around the relevant mid-market level for comparable mining companies and other companies of a similar size to Kazakhmys, with a high proportion of total remuneration being awarded through performancerelated elements.
64 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Remuneration Report Financial Statements Base salary and benets Composition of pay: Oleg Novachuk Chief Executive Base salaries are reviewed annually and normally take effect from 1 January.
Outcome at target Outcome at stretch Base salaries are generally set around the mid-market level for 34% 20% each role compared to companies of a similar size, with particular regard to other mining companies, and take account of the level of experience, group and individual performance and the external 40% market.
In setting base salaries the Committee also takes into 33% 40% account the general economic environment and salary increases 33% applying across the rest of the Group, particularly in the UK.
Base salaries paid to executive Directors are adjusted to take account of the absence of any pension provision.
Fixed pay Variable pay Variable pay base salary short term long term Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk last received an increase in their Source: based on 2013 policy: does not take account of any share price growth.
base salaries with effect from 1 July 2011, an increase of 3.5%.
No increases were made to executive Directors base salaries in 2012.
The Remuneration Committee has considered pay increases for Composition of pay: Eduard Ogay Executive Director the executive Directors and certain senior managers for 2013.
In determining these salaries, the Remuneration Committee took into Outcome at target Outcome at stretch consideration the experience, performance, and the internal and 39% 24% external relative positioning for total reward of the individuals, and also took into account the average budgeted increase in base salaries of the Groups workforce in 2013 which are expected to be within local ination levels and of the UK workforce of approximately 3%.
29% As a result of these considerations and the emphasis on salary 38% restraint from shareholders, the Remuneration Committee in 47% 23% consultation with Oleg Novachuk Chief Executive determined that the base salaries of Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay would Fixed pay Variable pay Variable pay not be increased in 2013.
As Vladimir Kim will be stepping down as base salary short term long term Chairman at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting his base salary Source: based on 2013 policy: does not take account of any share price growth.
will remain unchanged until that time, whereupon he will be paid a salary as executive chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC plus the non-executive Directors base fee of 84,000.
Executive Directors remuneration package The Committee determines the remuneration packages for the The base salaries for the executive Directors paid for 2011 and 2012, executive Directors.
The packages are designed to attract and retain and payable for 2013, are shown in the table below: high calibre executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve Executive Directors base salaries a high level of long-term corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, whilst avoiding excessive risk taking and 2011 % 2012 % 2013 % 000 increase 000 increase 000 increase short-term measures.
The principal elements of remuneration for Vladimir Kim 1,044 4.3 1,062 1.7 1,062 Nil executive Directors and senior managers are: Oleg Novachuk 842 4.3 856 1.7 856 Nil t base salary: 1 Eduard Ogay 314 532 Nil 532 Nil t benets-in-kind: 1 Appointed on 13 May 2011. t an annual bonus opportunity: and t Long Term Incentive Plan awards.
Benets include health insurance and, where appropriate, car and driver, and relocation assistance, all in line with entitlements provided for executives in similar positions in comparable companies.
com 65 Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus plan The number of shares that vest is dependent on Kazakhmys Total The annual bonus plan is reviewed annually and is designed to drive Shareholder Return TSR performance compared to a comparator profitability and individual performance from year to year.
The group of UK and international mining companies.
If Kazakhmys TSR maximum bonus potential is 200% of base salary for Oleg Novachuk is ranked median or above, an award will vest as follows: and 120% for other executive Directors.
The proportion of bonus TSR ranking of Kazakhmys Vesting percentage payable for on-target performance is 50% of the maximum.
Upper quartile ranking 100% The annual bonus plan comprises four discrete elements, with Between median and upper Straight-line vesting between each element representing an equal proportion of the maximum quartile ranking 30% and 100% based on ranking bonus potential: plus interpolation between rankings t operational performance: Median ranking 30% t financial performance: Below median ranking 0% t strategic development including execution of new projects : and t shareholder return.
TSR Performance Vesting Schedule Awards are also subject to a safety override, ensuring that they % of total will be scaled back to reect the Groups safety performance.
award vesting 100% In determining the actual bonus payments, the Committee takes into consideration such factors as performance related to the 75% Groups financial KPIs, operational performance against budget, safety performance, business development activities and 50% performance against industry peers.
Payments are made in 25% return for the achievement of stretching objectives.
Specic objectives are not disclosed as they would give a clear indication 0% of the Groups business targets which are commercially sensitive.
0% 25% 50% 75% 100% To take account of any serious problems that the Company may Performance relative to comparator group percentile become aware of in the years after awards have been made, awards under the annual bonus plan are subject to clawback.
Under this mechanism, the Committee has discretion in exceptional Prior to 2011, the TSR target was measured on a single base to end circumstances to determine that where there has been continuity three year performance period.
In 2011 the Committee made a of executive responsibility between initiation of a serious adverse minor change to the operation of the TSR performance target, so as event and its emergence as a problem, the serious adverse event to split the awards into two sub-awards each with three year vesting should be taken into account in assessing annual bonuses in the year periods.
This will not have any impact on the expected value of the the problem is identied, and, where appropriate, determining that awards, but will help to mitigate the impact that the cyclical nature a deferred share award will not vest, will only partially vest, or will of the copper industry has on Kazakhmys share price.
be subject to a delayed vesting.
Such circumstances may include a For awards granted in 2012 the performance period for the material restatement of the Groups financial statements, the sub-awards was: discovery of endemic problems in financial or operational reporting, or where, as a result of financial and operational losses, a material t sub-award 1: 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014: and breach of regulatory guidelines has occurred or is likely to occur.
Long Term Incentive Plan As the performance period of the first sub-award commences prior The LTIP is a discretionary long-term incentive plan and provides to the date of grant and that of the second sub-award commences for the grant of nil-cost options to executive Directors and selected after the date of grant, the performance period for the entire award senior executives.
The Committee reviews the quantum of awards is 41 months.
made each year to ensure that it is in line with the market.
Whilst the As the averaging period for calculating TSR is three months leading maximum annual award is 250% of base salary, it is the Committees up to the start and the end of the performance period of each policy to only grant awards of 200% of base salary to Oleg Novachuk sub-award, under this phased approach Kazakhmys TSR for a period and Eduard Ogay, with lower award levels being applied to other of six months at the start and the end of the performance period senior executives.
However, when making awards, wider factors will of the entire award will have an impact on the performance outturn.
be considered in determining whether to grant at this level, such as This phased approach is designed to increase the number of months Company performance.
the share price has an impact on the performance target and to reduce the impact of the volatility of Kazakhmys share price on the vesting of awards, whilst not materially changing the average vesting level over the medium term and hence not increasing the expected value of awards.
66 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Remuneration Report Financial Statements In the event of a change of control, awards will normally vest on a pro-rata basis by reference to the length of time since the TSR performance periods award was granted, and only if the performance conditions can Award split into two sub-awards each with three year effectively be regarded as having been satisfied at that time, vesting periods although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it is inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Sub-award 1: 3 year vesting period Executive share option plan The ESOP is an HMRC approved discretionary company share option plan that provides for the grant of market value options up Sub-award 2: 3 year vesting period to a value of 30,000 to executive Directors and certain selected UK-based senior executives.
Options will normally vest three years 41 months from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition and the participant being a Director or employee of Kazakhmys at that time.
Options granted to executive Directors and senior management The Committee continues to believe that TSR remains an under the ESOP will count towards the individual limits under appropriate performance target as it endorses consistency in the the LTIP and will normally be subject to the same performance remuneration policy and provides a clear alignment of interests condition and periods as awards granted under the LTIP.
In addition, TSR ensures a degree of risk management as it, through share price, reects both underlying No executive Director currently participates in the ESOP.
financial performance and the markets assessment of the quality All employee share schemes and sustainability of the Companys earnings.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys The Committee obtains independent external advice to assess UK and International Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans on the whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition same terms as other eligible employees.
at the end of the relevant period and to confirm that the companies No executive Director currently participates in a Sharesave or which comprise the comparator group and the measurement of Share Incentive Plan.
the Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Pensions The Company does not provide pension benets on behalf of The composition of the TSR comparator group is reviewed annually any executive Directors.
The absence of any pension provision is by the Committee.
The comparator group applicable for awards taken into account when setting base salaries and other elements granted in 2012 comprised: of remuneration.
Anglo American plc Antofagasta plc BHP Billiton plc Boliden AB Management of risk in remuneration arrangements Eurasian Natural Resources First Quantum Minerals Ltd The Committee takes seriously the issue of balancing risk and reward, Corporation PLC an area that is a key focus for Kazakhmys investors, stakeholders and regulators.
During 2012, the Committee commissioned a detailed Freeport-McMoran Fresnillo plc assessment of the risk environment surrounding the Companys Copper & Gold Inc current remuneration arrangements for executive Directors and Glencore International plc Hochschild Mining plc certain senior managers.
The assessment determined that whilst Inmet Mining Corporation Lundin Mining Corporation remuneration arrangements were broadly compatible with Rio Tinto plc Southern Copper Corporation Kazakhmys risk policies and systems, a number of areas could be Teck Resources Ltd B Vedanta Resources plc considered further, including keeping under review the performance Xstrata plc condition of the LTIP and the need to introduce a deferral mechanism for the annual bonus plan in the event of a further executive Director Other than the expected replacement of Glencore International plc being appointed.
Overall, the Committee remains satisfied that the and Xstrata plc with Glencore Xstrata plc, it is intended that the remuneration policy is aligned with the long-term needs of the comparator group for 2013 will be consistent with the 2012 group.
business and that incentive quantum, structure and objectives do not encourage short-term measures or excessive risk taking.
In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a take-over, merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect calculation of a ranking, the Committee shall determine how this should be reected in the ranking calculation.
com 67 Remuneration Report continued The Committee draws upon the relevant experience and knowledge Remuneration for other senior managers of its members to ensure that it benets from the positions they The remuneration for senior managers below Board level is hold on other Board Committees.
These include the fact that Philip broadly consistent with that followed at executive Director level.
Aiken is chairman of the Group Health, Safety and Environment To encourage share ownership on the part of the most senior Committee and Simon Heale is chairman of the Audit Committee.
managers below Board level they are eligible to receive a maximum The Chief Executive also provides a link to the Executive Committee.
bonus potential of up to 150% of base salary with an on-target The leveraging of such experience and knowledge enables the bonus potential of 75% of base salary, one-third of which is deferred Committee to have an oversight of risk factors that may be relevant and invested in the Companys shares.
Provided they remain in to remuneration arrangements and target setting specically.
employment, the shares will be released after two years.
Senior managers are also eligible to receive awards under the LTIP.
Dilution of share capital The Companys share-based incentive plans currently operate Consideration of pay of other employees with market purchase shares that are held in an Employee benefit Pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group Trust.
Therefore, there is no dilution of existing shareholders on are taken into account when setting the remuneration policy for the vesting of awards.
In the event of the Company deciding to executive Directors.
In particular, basic pay increases in the last few use shares held in treasury, such shares will count towards the limits years have been limited to those which employees in the UK have on the number of new shares which may be issued under the rules received and the performance conditions for LTIP awards are the of the relevant share-based incentive plan pursuant to institutional same as those which apply to senior managers.
Service agreements Employee benefit Trust The Companys policy is that executive Directors will be employed The Kazakhmys Employee benefit Trust has been established to on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, more than one years notice, with the executive Director required from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising to give up to six months notice of termination.
on the exercise of awards under the Groups share-based incentive The contracts of Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk are terminable plans.
The trustees of the Kazakhmys Employee benefit Trust have by either the Company or the executive on three months notice.
informed the Company that their intention is to abstain from voting These were granted to them on 26 September 2005.
The Company in respect of the Kazakhmys shares held in the trust.
retains the right to terminate these contracts immediately, in As at 31 December 2012, 763,794 shares were held by the Employee accordance with the terms of their service agreement, on payment benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 1,683,780.
This means of a sum equal to the contractual notice entitlement of three months.
that the trust holds 45% of outstanding awards.
The Company reserves the right on termination to make phased payments which are paid in monthly instalments and subject to New Directors mitigation through a legal obligation on the part of the outgoing Where the Company wishes to recruit new executive Directors executive Director to seek new employment.
it will need exibility to structure a remuneration package that As Eduard Ogays operational duties lie in Kazakhstan, he has a will attract the best candidate.
Normally the elements of such Kazakhstan-based contract of employment granted on 23 January a package will be in line with the policy outlined in this section.
2012 by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, which entitles him to six However, where the Company needs, in exceptional circumstances, months notice of termination from that company or three months to include elements not described in the policy it will consult in notice of termination from him.
Kazakhmys Corporation LLC retains advance with institutional shareholders.
the right to terminate his contact immediately, in accordance with the terms of the contract of employment, on payment of a sum equal to six months salary.
He also has an appointment letter with the Company dated 22 March 2012 in respect of his appointment as an executive Director of the Company which is coterminous with his Kazakhstan contract, but also capable of termination in its own right without compensation.
68 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Remuneration Report Financial Statements Non-executive Directors The Board normally reviews fees every two years, with any Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts, but each changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
Fees were last has a letter of appointment with the Company.
Each letter of reviewed in 2011, with changes taking effect from 1 January 2012. appointment provides for a one month notice period.
Non-executive The fee structure from 1 January 2013 is shown below.
Directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year Fee terms, with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous 000 review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh Base fee 84 the Board.
Upon appointment as non-executive Chairman at the Additional fees: conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Simon Senior Independent Director 18 Heales letter of appointment dated 27 February 2013 provides Chairmen of the Audit and Group HSE Committees 18 for a three month notice period.
For each non-executive Director who served during 2012, the effective date of their letter of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 appointment is shown in the table below: Member of the Group HSE Committee 12 Name Letter of appointment Member of the Audit Committee 9 Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 Chairman of Projects Assurance Committee 8 Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 Member of the Remuneration Committee 6 1 Simon Heale 27 February 2013 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 1 December 2005 New non-executive Chairman Charles Watson 24 August 2011 As announced on 28 February 2013, the Board has appointed Simon Daulet Yergozhin 19 November 2008 Heale as non-executive Chairman with effect from the conclusion of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Subject to shareholder 1 Prior to his appointment as Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate, Simon Heale approval of his re-election as a Director, it is proposed to pay Simon had a letter of appointment with an effective date of 1 January 2007.
Heale a fee of 300,000 per annum as non-executive Chairman.
In the period from the date of the announcement of 28 February 2013 Non-executive Director fees to the date of his appointment as non-executive Chairman, Simon Fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board Heale will be paid a fee of 175,000 per annum as Deputy Chairman.
as a whole, upon the recommendation of the executive Directors.
Policy on external appointments The policy on non-executive Directors fees is: The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from t to be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain world class talent executive Directors holding one approved non-executive necessary to contribute to a high performing Board: directorship of another company, offering executive Directors the opportunity to broaden their experience and knowledge.
Company t to be consistent with recognised best practice standards for policy is to allow executive Directors to retain fees paid from any such positions: such appointment.
No executive Director currently holds a t to reect individual time commitments and responsibilities, non-executive directorship of another company.
membership of Board Committees and other responsibilities: t not to allow participation in any of the Companys share schemes Shareholder views or incentive plans, nor to accrue pension benets from the The Committee actively considered feedback received from Company for their non-executive Director services: and shareholders prior to and following the 2012 annual general t to be within the limits set by shareholders in the Companys meeting.
It also actively monitored guidance and directional articles of association.
themes emerging from institutional shareholder bodies and the UK government during the year on the subject of executive remuneration.
This has resulted in the Committee reviewing the structure and content of the Directors Remuneration Report with a view to improving clarity and understanding, including splitting the report into two sections: a policy report and an implementation report.
At the 2012 annual general meeting, the Directors Remuneration Report received a majority vote in favour of 98.7% 2011: 99.6%.
com 69 Remuneration Report continued Role of the Remuneration Committee Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and The Committee met twice in 2012, with each member attending recommending to the Board the framework for executive as follows: remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the Committee Attendance at full Members member since meetings during 2012 remuneration of executive Directors and certain senior managers.
Lord Renwick 1 December 2005 2 2 The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 2 2 Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities Simon Heale 1 January 2007 2 2 are summarised below: t determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for After each meeting, the chairman of the Committee presented executive remuneration that ensures executive Directors and a report on its activities to the full Board.
certain senior managers are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a fair Committee activities and responsible manner for their individual contribution towards In line with its remit, the following were considered, amongst the success of the Company: other matters, by the Committee during the year: t ensuring that the remuneration policy is appropriate and t reviewed the current trends in remuneration practice and consistent with effective risk management: updated UK governance requirements, including assessing t within the agreed framework, setting and determining the total Kazakhmys compliance with regulations published by the individual remuneration arrangements for executive Directors Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on narrative and certain senior managers, giving due regard to individual reporting and executive remuneration: and Company performance, and remuneration trends across t reviewed annual general meeting outcome and feedback from the Group: shareholder bodies and institutional shareholders, giving t approving the design of, and determining the targets for, any consideration to the implications for future remuneration policy: performance-related plans and the total annual payments t assessed the risk environment surrounding remuneration made under such plans to executive Directors and certain arrangements for executive Directors and certain senior managers: senior managers: t set, reviewed and approved individual remuneration arrangements t determining any share incentive plan performance targets: and for executive Directors and certain senior managers: t determining the terms of employment and remuneration of each t performed an oversight role on the remuneration of certain executive Director and certain senior managers, including senior managers immediately below Board level: recruitment and termination arrangements.
t assessed the level of achievement against objectives under the annual bonus plan and LTIP: Composition of the Committee The Committee consists of three non-executive Directors, all of t considered and approved plan design, performance measures and whom are considered by the Board to be independent pursuant to targets to be used under the annual bonus plan and LTIP: the UK Corporate Governance Code: Lord Renwick, Philip Aiken t reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report: and and Simon Heale.
Lord Renwick is chairman of the Committee.
t reviewed the Committees performance and its terms The Chairman and Chief Executive are normally invited to attend of reference.
meetings to provide information and advice to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions.
They are, however, specically Priorities for 2013 excluded from any matter concerning their own remuneration.
For the coming year it is anticipated that the Committee will focus Representatives of New Bridge Street, the Committees retained on the following areas: adviser, also attend meetings by invitation as the Committees independent adviser.
The Company Secretary attends meetings t supporting the Groups strategy and business objectives: as secretary to the Committee.
t ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements: t reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of current executive remuneration plan design and targets: and t ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract, motivate and retain executive Directors and senior managers, and reward Company performance, with a focus on maintaining the link between performance and reward, whilst maintaining a prudent approach to cost and the risk to the business.
70 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Remuneration Report Financial Statements Executive Directors remuneration 1 3 Vladimir Kim Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 000 Salary 1,062 1,044 856 842 532 314 Benets 105 98 37 96 Sub-total xed remuneration 1,167 1,142 893 938 532 314 Annual performance bonus 509 626 685 715 255 272 2 Long Term Incentive Plan Sub-total variable remuneration 509 626 685 715 255 272 Total 1,676 1,768 1,578 1,653 787 586 1 Vladimir Kim received an aggregate salary of 1,062,000 in 2012.
Of this salary, 432,000 was paid by Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the balance was paid by the Company.
An adjustment is made each year to ensure that his aggregate salary for the year equates to his salary denominated in UK pounds sterling as a result of exchange rate differences.
2 The Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted to Oleg Novachuk on 17 May 2010 subject to a performance condition and three year performance period as at 26 November 2009 and Eduard Ogay on 26 November 2009, lapsed on 26 November 2012 on failing to achieve the required TSR target.
3 Eduard Ogay was appointed as a Director on 13 May 2011.
4 David Munro stood down from the Board on 13 May 2011.
In order for the Company to be able to continue to rely on his invaluable input, he has entered into a consultancy agreement with the Company and was paid 240,000 in 2012.
There were no other payments made to former Directors during 2012.
Executive Directors interests in the Long Term Incentive Plan Number of shares Awards Number of conditionally Awards vested shares under awarded as at Market price at made during during the Awards lapsed award as at 31 1 2 Director Date of award Date of vesting 1 January 2012 date of grant the year year during the year December 2012 Oleg Novachuk 17 May 2010 17 May 2013 116,532 1,201p 116,532 6 April 2011 1 June 2014 117,006 1,468p 117,006 4 April 2012 1 June 2015 887p 188,359 188,359 Eduard Ogay 26 November 2009 26 November 2012 74,240 1,213p 74,240 6 April 2011 1 June 2014 73,623 1,468p 73,623 4 April 2012 1 June 2015 887p 110,841 110,841 1 Awards granted to Oleg Novachuk on 17 May 2010 subject to a performance condition and three year performance period as at 26 November 2009 and Eduard Ogay on 26 November 2009, lapsed on 26 November 2012 on failing to achieve the required TSR target.
2 The table shows the maximum number of shares that could be released if awards were to vest in full.
Participants do not receive dividends on unvested shares.
Those awards granted in 2012 are subject to the performance condition set out on page 66, with 30% vesting at median.
3 No awards have been granted to Vladimir Kim under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
com 71 Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors annual bonus awards Remuneration for other senior managers In spite of challenging market conditions, the management team The base salaries for the year ended 31 December 2012 of those was able to deliver sound financial results, robust operational senior managers immediately below the level of the Board were performance with production targets being achieved for a fifth as shown in the table below: consecutive year, and targeted strategic developments of major Salary range Number of senior managers projects also being achieved.
Share price performance was poor, 600,000 699,000 2 affected by copper price volatility and higher unit costs.
The Groups 500,000 599,999 safety performance improved compared to the prior year, but 400,000 499,999 2 requires a continuing sustained effort to further improve it, resulting 300,000 399,999 in bonuses being scaled back.
The overall level of performance 200,000 299,999 1 achieved resulted in annual bonus awards to Vladimir Kim, Oleg Novachuk and Eduard Ogay of 48%, 80% and 48% of base salary, 1 Includes salary of Matthew Hird, Chief Financial Officer.
The actual bonus payments received by them are shown in the table on page 71.
Annual Base salary bonus Total 2012 Chief Financial Officers remuneration 000 000 000 Performance graph Matthew Hird 464 278 742 The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2012, of 100 1 invested in Kazakhmys PLC shares on 31 December 2007 compared Matthew Hird will stand down as Chief Financial Officer at the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting, but will remain an employee up to with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 350 31 December 2013 to ensure a smooth transition of the role.
These indices were chosen as they are broad-based indices and are widely recognised performance comparisons for large UK mining companies.
Non-executive Directors fees Fees paid to non-executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out below: Total Shareholder Return Total fees Total fees 2012 2011 Non-executive Directors fees 000 000 125 Philip Aiken 126 108 100 Clinton Dines 105 96 75 Simon Heale 108 96 50 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 96 96 1 Charles Watson 108 33 25 2 Daulet Yergozhin 84 84 0 1 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Appointed on 24 August 2011.
2 As a minister of the Government of Kazakhstan, Daulet Yergozhin is not permitted Kazakhmys PLC FTSE 100 Index FTSE 350 Mining Sector Index to receive fees personally and his fees were paid to SABY charitable trust, a childrens charity based in Kazakhstan.
72 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Remuneration Report Financial Statements Directors interests in ordinary shares Audit requirements The beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected The Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has audited the information persons who held office at 31 December 2012 in the Companys contained in the tables headed Executive Directors base salaries, ordinary shares as at that date and 1 January 2012 are shown Executive Directors remuneration, Executive Directors interests in the table below: in the Long Term Incentive Plan, Remuneration for other senior managers, Non-executive Directors fees and Directors interests Ordinary Ordinary shares at shares at in ordinary shares.
Directors interests 1 January 31 December in ordinary shares 2012 2012 On behalf of the Board Philip Aiken 4,000 4,000 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Clinton Dines 3,000 Chairman, Remuneration Committee Simon Heale 5,000 5,000 Vladimir Kim 149,306,795 149,306,795 25 March 2013 Oleg Novachuk 34,923,423 34,923,423 Eduard Ogay 3,834,427 3,834,427 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 4,000 4,000 Charles Watson 3,624 1 No changes in Directors interests occurred in the period 1 January 2013 to 25 March 2013.
2 The closing market price of the Companys shares at 31 December 2012 was 778p and the range for the year was 570p to 1,214p.
External adviser The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the basis of their fees and other terms.
During 2012, the Committee received advice on executive compensation, performance-related pay schemes and equity-based incentive schemes from New Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited an Aon plc company.
New Bridge Street also provides advice to the Company on remuneration matters for senior employees including benchmarking of remuneration and equity-based incentives.
Other than providing insurance for the shipping of some copper and silver products to third parties, no other companies within Aon plc provide other services to the Company.
The terms of engagement between the Committee and New Bridge Street are available on request.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street in respect of its services during the year was 120,500.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
