Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 41 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee considers that the Executive Incentive Plan EIP has been effective in delivering and returning value to the Groups shareholders and the nature and the structure of the EIP was appropriate for the Group in 2009.
Now that the performance period is nearing completion, the Remuneration Committee has undertaken a full scale review of the long-term incentive arrangements at the Group and believes that it is necessary to introduce anew long-term incentive plan to continue to driveperformance.
Graham Holden Chairman, Remuneration Committee During 2011 12 the Committee has reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors against This report is presented in 2011 12targets and objectives.
The Committee has reviewed alsothe market positioning, appropriateness thefollowing sections: andeffectiveness of the executive reward arrangements in order to determine whether ornotchanges are needed.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall remuneration policy and approach remains appropriate.
With the Executive Incentive Plan EIP concluding in July 2012 the Committee was conscious of the need to Letter from the Chairman of introduce a long-term incentive plan to build on the strong performance of the last two years.
Accordingly the  only change proposed to the executive remuneration arrangements is the establishment of a new long-term incentive plan.
The role of the Remuneration Last year we noted that having completed the second year of the two-year restructuring plan successfully Committee and achieved the objective of creating a strong, resilient base from which to grow, the focus of the Group is ondelivering profitable growth and increased shareholder returns.
Executive remuneration at a glance The EIP was introduced in 2009 at the startof the two-year restructuring plan.
Awards under the EIP are dueto High level information accompanied by vest, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions, on 24July 2012.
At the time of itsintroduction asynopsis of key information.
several of the Groups largest shareholders expressed a preference for aone-off scheme which would reinforce the delivery of stretching Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
The KCOM Group share price was 27.48 pence Remuneration explained in July 2009 and the vesting TSR target was set against the achievement of aminimum TSR of 45 pence with Our approach to remuneration, key building vesting on a straight-line basis up to a maximum TSR of 100 pence.
Todate the maximum TSR over the blocks, current year performance and performance period would suggest a vesting of 69 per cent of the awards granted.
Vesting is also subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied that there has been a demonstrable and sustainable improvement in the Groups financial and non-financial performance over the Audited information performance period.
As part of the consideration of whether there has been a demonstrable and sustainable improvement inthe Groups financial and non-financial performance, the Committee has formally considered the increase inthe KCOM Group share price in comparison to the increase in the FTSE 350 Price Index since the date of the approval of the EIP by shareholders on 24 July 2009.
This was tested as at 29 March 2012 and it was found that the KCOM Group share price had increased by 147.8 per cent whilst the FTSE 350 Price Index had increased by27.7per cent over the same period.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee considered the increase in shareholder value over the same period, which showed that the market capitalisation of KCOM Group shares as at 24 July 2009 was 145.9 million compared with the market capitalisation at 29 March 2012 of 361.6 million.
Over the period dividends of 34.5 million were paid, resulting in a total increase in shareholder value between the start ofthe scheme and 29 March 2012 of 250.2 million.
The current performance would suggest that awards with avalue of 9.3 million based on the share price on 29 March 2012 would be made to the Executive Directors in July 2012, and senior executives in November 2012, which is equivalent to 3.7 per cent of the total increase in shareholder value over the life of the scheme up to 29 March 2012.
In terms of the financial performance of the Group since the EIP was introduced there has been a substantial reduction inindebtedness and a significant improvement in earnings, with the Group establishing a strong resilient base from which to grow.
When the EIP was introduced in 2009, it replaced the LTCIP as the Groups main long-term incentive scheme and no further investments in the LTCIP were allowed.
The LTCIP required the Executive Directors to hold KCOM Group shares for up to five years and this scheme is therefore due to reach its third and final performance measurement period on 31 August 2012.
The schemes Earnings Per Share EPS underpin is measured as at31March 2012 and should it be achieved matching shares may vest depending upon the comparative performance of the Group against its comparator group measured as at 31 August 2012.
TheEPS underpin is measured as adjusted basic earnings per share as per note 12 of the financial statements.
TheEPSunderpin has been met as at 31 March 2012 and full details of the LTCIP can be found on page 47.
42 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee considers that the EIP has been effective in delivering and returning value to the Groups shareholders and the nature and the structure of the EIP was appropriate for the Group in 2009.
Now that the performance period is nearing completion, the Remuneration Committee has undertaken a full scale review of the long-term incentive arrangements of the Group and believes that it is necessary to introduce a new long-term incentive plan to continue to drive performance.
TheRemuneration Committee is conscious that, whilst performance under the EIP has been strong, there is still a desire to focus on delivering superior returns to shareholders and reflect the Groups current position.
The Remuneration Committee intends to seek shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM for a new long-term incentive plan which will offer the opportunity to make regular annual awards of shares which will vest after three years and it is intended that the first award will be dependent on the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
As agreed last year our remuneration policy remains to maintain our constraint on Executive Directors base pay and the emphasis on variable performance related pay.
Accordingly, there will be no increase in the Executive Directors salaries in July 2012 with focus on the delivery of reward for superior performance, the annual bonus and new LTIP.
In undertaking our review we considered the general reward arrangements for the Group as awhole against those of our competitors and other relevant market comparators.
We considered then our requirements to retain and motivate talented employees before making any decision.
We believe that both Executive Directors and other employees must be aligned with and motivated by the Groups success so that they continue to work together asaproductive team.
As part of an effectiveness review for the entire Board, an evaluation of the Remuneration Committee was also undertaken.
We are pleased toreport this review concluded that the Committee has operated effectively.
Graham Holden Chairman, Remuneration Committee 31 May 2012 The role of the Remuneration Committee The membership and attendance at Committee meetings is shown on page 36.
The Committee isresponsible for: determining and agreeing the remuneration policy for the Executive Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives across the Group, taking into account relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated guidance and the need to reward individuals fairly and responsibly for their individual contributions to the success of the Group: having regard to remuneration trends across the Group and remuneration in other companies when setting remuneration policy, as well as toenvironmental, social and governance matters when appropriate: selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee: approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Group and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders and determining each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards and the performance targets to be used: determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each Executive Director and senior executives: ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Group, that failure is not rewarded and that theduty to mitigate loss is fully recognised: and the Committees Terms of Reference are in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Guidance on Termsof Reference for Remuneration Committees.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available fromtheCompany Secretary or on our website, www.
The Committee consults regularly with the Executive Chairman and the Group HR Director, although neither is present when their own reward is under discussion.
The Committee received advice over the year on all aspects of remuneration including both specific and general market trends and data from independent remuneration consultants New Bridge Street, an Aon Hewitt Company, who were appointed by the Committee in August 2011.
Aon Hewitt also provideactuarial and investment consultancy advice to the Trustees of the Groups two defined benefit pension schemes, which the Committee considers doesnotproduce a conflict of interest.
Prior to August 2011 advice was received from Kepler Associates who also provided no other services to the Group.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 43 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Key Committee activities during 2011 12: Area of focus What have we done?
Reviewing the independent remuneration consultants Appointed new independent remuneration consultants to the Committee following atenderingprocess Reviewing appropriateness and adequacy Reviewed the performance of executive incentive schemes designed and consulted with  pay schemes shareholders on the proposed new long-term incentive plan Aligning Executive Director and shareholder objectives Introduced share ownership guidelines for Executive Directors Reviewing performance against performance-related Considered performance against targets for theannual bonus scheme, EIP, LTCIP and the payscheme targets level of achievement pay-out Executive remuneration at a glance The KCOM Group reward package has a number ofelements.
Base salaries and benefits for all employees are determined with reference to the Groups reward principles and through benchmarking against relevant comparators.
Inorder to align an individuals reward to the long-term success of the Groups performance, other components annual bonuses and long-term incentives, are linked to the Groups strategy and determined by the levels of performance achieved against keytargets.
The Committee reviews annually the remuneration structure to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market to ensure that it retains and motivates talented employees.
We use target performance to estimate the total potential reward and benchmark our reward package against those of KCOM Groups competitors.
The Committee reviews also pay and employment conditions across the Group when determining Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration each year.
What are the principles of our remunerationpolicy?
Our remuneration policy aims to be: Competitively geared: Median salaries plus median bonuses and above-median long-term incentives provide anopportunity for highly geared and competitive total reward for superior performance.
Performance linked: A significant part of Executive Directors reward is determined by the Groups success.
Failureto achieve threshold levels of performance results in no pay-out under shortorlong-term incentives.
Shareholder aligned: A considerable part of the reward is related toa measurement of total shareholder return.
Simple and transparent: All aspects of the remuneration structure are clear to employees and communicated openly.
This supports our aim of engendering fairness and teamwork across the organisation.
Aligned to business objectives: The Committee designs the remuneration policyto ensure that it does not encourage unnecessary risk-taking or irresponsible behaviour, but is aligned to thestrategic objectives of the business, including maintaining an appropriate risk profile for the Group and ensuring the long-term success of the Group.
Annual bonus scheme The majority of employees have the opportunity toearn an annual cash bonus.
With effect from 1April 2009 the award of the bonus has been dependent upon achievement of Group financial performance targets with the level of benefit calculated at the end of the period.
All employees are now bonused on the same Group targets apart from those employed by Smart421, who have bonuses set in relation to the performance of the Smart421 brand.
The Executive Chairman, with input from the Chief Financial Officer, recommends the percentage earned by Executive Directors and senior executives against their financial targets.
These recommendations are considered and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The targets are monitored also at various intervals during the performance period and the final calculation is thoroughly checked by the Remuneration Committee.
Bonuses are payable annually, following publication of the Groups full year results.
We believe the timing of payments emphasises the link between the Groups results and an individuals reward.
It is the Groups policy that bonuses and other incentives are not pensionable.
44 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report continued Remuneration explained Overview: KCOM Group remuneration structure explained What are the components?
Fixed Variable Base Benefits Annual bonus Equity-based long-term salary includingpensions incentives Available to all KCOM Group Available to all Available to all employees apart from those Available to senior executives KCOM Group employees KCOM Group employees eligible forcommission and Executive Directors only How did the elements of variable reward for 2011 12 align with KCOM Groups strategy?
Sustainability of Operational Shareholder performance excellence value Bonus Long-term incentive Measured by Measured by Growth in Group EBITDA and growth inGroup revenue Growth in share price plus dividend Performance target Performance target Exceed market expectations, year on year improvement Total Shareholder Return of 100 pence Maximum potential Maximum potential 100% of salary 100% of shares awarded Percentage of maximum achieved Percentage of maximum achieved 1 10% 69% 1 Calculation of potential vesting of the EIP scheme based on the maximum TSR achieved over the performance period as at 31 March 2012.
How has the Executive Director reward structure changed year on year?
2010 11 reward 2011 12 reward 2012 13 reward Held at 2008 09 levels 3% inflation linked award Held at 2011 12 levels Base salary Maximum potential on target Maximum potential on target Maximum potential on target Annual bonus performance earns 50% performance earns 50% performance earns 50% on target ofsalary ofsalary ofsalary Performance criteria based Performance criteria based Performance criteria based upon Group targets upon Group targets upon Group targets Annual bonus Above target stretch Above target stretch Above target stretch stretch opportunity of 50% ofsalary opportunity of 50% ofsalary opportunity of 50% ofsalary Performance criteria based Performance criteria based Performance criteria based upon Group targets upon Group targets upon Group targets Long-term incentive Continued participation Continued participation Continued participation in intheEIP intheEIP theEIP until July 2012 and participation inthe proposed new long-term incentive scheme Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 45 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration explained continued How are the rewards structured?
Assessing what is competitive The peer group companies are noted on page 47: this is the main group against which we monitor whether our rewards for Executive Directors and senior executives are competitive relative to our performance and it includes those that we use for monitoring the Groups business performance.
We look also at reward arrangements in other types of telecoms and technology-based companies, as these are potential competitors for talent.
In addition, we examine market reward data for UK industrial companies of a similar market capitalisation to the Group to help ensure we do not inadvertently lose talent by falling behind the broader marketplace.
For completeness, the Remuneration Committee then considers the pay and employment conditions across the whole of the Group before reaching a conclusion.
The total number of companies in the peer group including KCOM Group is 22.
For more information, see page 47.
Balancing short and long-term remuneration Based on our view of current market practice, and the principles of our remuneration policy, we have established the remuneration structure set out in the table below.
Fixed annual elements including salary, pension and benefits are to recognise the status of our Executive Directors and senior executives and to enable them to undertake current and future lifestyle planning.
The short and long-term incentives are to motivate and reward Executive Directors and senior executives for delivering strong and sustainable performance to the Groups shareholders.
The long-term incentive arrangement with its Total Shareholder Return linkage ensures that there is good alignment between shareholders, Executive Directors and senior executives.
Key elements of Executive Director short and long-term remuneration Element Objective Market positioning How much?
Conditions Base salary To recognise status and Median Historically increased only with increased None responsibility responsibility or to align with the market Benefits To provide lifestyle benefits Median Cost of life assurance, income None that are market competitive protection, car or cash allowance, fully expensed fuel card, medical insurance and medical screening Annual bonus To reinforce the achievement Market median for delivering Target 50 per cent of salary, maximum Achievement of Group of stretching Company objectives 100 per cent EBITDA and Group objectives revenue targets Pension To provide funding for Median Cost of employer pension contribution None retirement at 20 per cent Long-term To augment shareholder Above median 2009 grant of 22 million shares split: Vesting of 10 per cent at incentive EIP alignment, ensure direct link one-third Executive Chairman, one-third aTSR of 45 pence with between reward and superior Executive Directors, one-third senior straight-line proportionate shareholder returns executives vesting to a maximum of100 pence In addition to the elements above two Executive Directors may receive awards under the LTCIP.
Full details of this can be found on page 47.
At the AGM inJuly2012, we will also be seeking shareholder approval for a new long-term incentive plan.
Details of this can be found in the AGM notice.
Linking reward to Company performance The Groups remuneration strategy is to align rewards closely with sustainable shareholder value creation.
This is achieved by incentivising and motivating the delivery against targets, designed tocreate financial stability, resilience and growth inspecific shareholder return measures.
Having created strong financial underpinning through 2009 10, the emphasis on growth measures will increase, as part of the mix, but always with core fundamentals as the priority.
All Executive Directors bonus payments are linked to performance against financial targets and the delivery of future growth.
With effect from 1 April 2011, the financial targets were changed and whilst we continue to use growth in Group EBITDA as a measure of sustainable operational excellence we replaced our net debt to EBITDA target with growth in Group revenue, which will be driven materially by performance of our Kcom brand.
How did our performance drive Executive Director reward in 2011 12?
2011 12 saw continued challenges in the market.
Despite those sustained pressures, the business saw improvements in profitability and continued strongcash generation with a reduction in overall indebtedness.
The EIP will deliver rewards for improvement in shareholder value.
Performance highlight KCOM Group Net debt reduction despite increased investment, pension contributions and dividends Improvement in Group profitability Investment to drive improved profitability Increase in dividend with medium-term growth commitment KC segment Continued and substantial business profitability performance and growth Kcom segment Contract wins and continued improvement in sustainability of earnings 46 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report continued Remuneration explained continued Long-term incentives in which the Executive Directors participate The Executive Directors participate in two share schemes: the EIP and the LTCIP.
The EIP was introduced in 2009 and replaced the LTCIP as the Groups main TSR performance since 1 April 2005 KCOM Group vs. FTSE Fixed Line Telecommunications Services Index and FTSE techMARK long-term incentive following extensive consultation with shareholders.
The Group operates also other share schemes which are available either to all employees Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2005 or to specific groups of employees excluding the Executive Directors at the discretion of the Committee.
200 As mentioned on page 45 shareholder approval is being sought for a new long-term incentive plan which will be used as the sole executive long-term incentive plan following vesting of the EIP awards.
Details of this new plan can be found in the AGM notice.
150 Executive Incentive Plan EIP 100 The EIP was introduced in 2009 following an extensive consultation with shareholders who expressed a preference for a scheme which would reinforce the delivery of stretching Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
A participant is granted a conditional right to a number of ordinary shares in the Group which 50 vestafter three years to the extent that the associated performance condition is met.
KCOM Group FTSE Fixed Line ASX EIP awards vest according to a performance condition based on the TSR i. e. share price plus dividends paid measured over any three months during the 0 FTSE techMARK ASX three-year performance period ending on 24 July 2012, as follows: Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 EIP vesting schedule EIP three-month average share price and TSR to 31 March 2011 EIP vesting schedule 70 100% 60 50 40 30 Three-month average share price 20 pence 10 TSR pence 10% TSR at 31 March 2011 pence 0 45p 100p KCOM Group share price plus dividends pence 2009 2010 2011 EIP awards vest at ten per cent of the maximum award for a TSR of 45 pence and vest in full for a TSR of 100 pence, with a straight-line vesting between 45pence and 100 pence.
For the majority of participants, vested shares are released 50 per cent after three years and 25 per cent equally after four and five years: vested shares heldbythe Executive Chairman are released in full after three years because at the time the scheme was introduced this timescale was better aligned tohisexpectedtenure in this role.
Dividends are accrued on vested shares.
EIP three-month average share price and TSR to 31 March 2012 Vesting is also subject to the Remuneration Committee being satisfied thatthere has been a demonstrable and sustainable improvement in theGroups financial and non-financial performance over the performance period.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, a three-month average TSR of 81 pence was achieved.
This current performance would, subject to the Committees final discretion, result in a total 13.4 million shares vesting 69 per cent of the total award, as detailed in the table below: EIP grant holding Date of grant Award maximum Potential vesting as at 1 potential vesting 31 March 2012 000s 000s Current Directors Bill Halbert 24 July 2009 7,480 5,187 Paul Simpson 24 July 2009 2,420 1,678 Kevin Walsh 24 July 2009 2,420 1,678 Senior executives Various 6,041 4,189 Previous Director Paul Renucci 24 July 2009 1,028 713 1 Potential vesting based on the maximum TSR achieved over the performance period to date.
Pence Value 24 Jul 04 Sep 16 Oct 27 Nov 14 Jan 25 Feb 08 Apr 20 May 01 Jul 12 Aug 23 Sep 04 Nov 16 Dec 27 Jan 10 Mar % vesting Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 47 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration explained continued Long-term incentives in which the Executive Directors participate continued Long-Term Co-Investment Plan LTCIP The LTCIP was established in 2007 and was replaced by the EIP as the Groups main long-term incentive scheme in 2009 accordingly no further shares could be lodged in the plan.
Participation in the LTCIP was restricted tothe Executive Directors and requires an Executive Director to purchase and hold KCOM Group shares for up to five years either by transferring existing shares or through new share purchases.
Purchased shares must be held in the plan for a minimum of twelve months and, dependent upon meeting the performance criteria, up to 6.6666 matching shares are awarded for each purchased share.
Transferred-in shares must be held for a minimum of twelve months, and dependent upon meeting the performance criteria, up to four matching shares are awarded for each transferred-in share.
The total value of purchased and transferred-in shares is limited to 150 per cent of maximum bonus entitlement per year scaled back in years four and five to 100 per cent and 75 per cent respectively.
The plan is subject to the usual ABI dilution limits, as well as a limit on the value of awards at 2.5 per cent of the market value of the Group.
Following the introduction of the EIP, no further investment into the LTCIP was allowed from 1 September 2009, thus concluding the LTCIP investment opportunity three years earlier than had been planned at its introduction.
LTCIP performance condition elements The LTCIP performance condition has three elements: 1.
Earnings per share EPS underpin EPS growth as defined in the scheme rules must equal or exceed the growth in RPI over the relevant performance period.
TSR Upon achievement of the EPS underpin matching shares may vest depending upon the comparative TSR performance of the Groupagainst its comparator group.
TSR is calculated by comparing the average share price over the three-month period prior to the start of the scheme 1September 2007 with the final average share price over the three-month period prior to the end of the relevant performance period and adding back dividends.
KCOM Group TSR rank Number of matching shares that vest per Number of matching shares that vest per transferred-in share purchased share Below median Nil Nil At median 1 1.6666 Between median and upper quartile Between 1 and 3 on a straight line basis Between 1.6666 and 5 on a straight-line basis Upper quartile and above 3 5 The Remuneration Committee agreed on 26 March 2010 to adopt a revised comparator group of companies due to prior consolidation in the market and the likelihood of further consolidation.
JP Morgan Cazenoves report demonstrated that the participants in the LTCIP would be neither advantaged or disadvantaged by the amendments.
The revised comparator group is as follows: Anite Group Logica Telecom Plus Pace Morse Qinetiq Group Cable & Wireless Comms Telecity Group XChanging Colt Telecom THUS Micro Focus Computacenter Timeweave Phoenix IT Dimension Data Cable and Wireless Worldwide RM Spirent Communications BT Group Tribal Group 3.
Actual growth in share price If the Group achieves share price growth of 25 per cent compound per annum over the relevant performance period then a further matching share may vest for each purchased or transferred-in share in the following ratio: Additional matching share awarded per transferred-in share Additional matching share per purchased share 1 1.6666 48 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report continued Remuneration explained continued Long-term incentives in which the Executive Directors participate continued Second performance measurement period There are three performance periods for TSR and absolute share price growth, all starting from the adoption date of the plan, 1 September 2007, andending consecutively on 31 August 2010, 2011and 2012.
At the end of the second performance period, whilst TSR performance was at the upper quartile, the Remuneration Committee determined that the EPS underpin had not been met and therefore no matching shares vested.
Measurement of the performance conditions as at 31 March 2012 confirms that the EPS underpin has been met and the TSR performance was between median and upper quartile at 31 March 2012, the actual growth in share price target had not been achieved.
The final performance period for the measurement of TSR and absolute share price growth is 31 August 2012.
General Unvested EIP awards, LTCIP awards and share option awards are forfeited if an Executive Director or senior executive resigns from employment or is terminated for cause.
Awards continue on a pro-rata basis though still subject to the performance condition if an Executive Director or senior executive leavesfor reasons of retirement, ill health, or good leaver status is granted at the Remuneration Committees absolute discretion.
If control of the Group changes, EIP shares will vest pro-rata based on the proportion of the vesting period elapsed to the change of control and are also subject to the Groups TSR performance achieved up to the time of theevent.
Performance graph The following graph shows, for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 and for each of the previous four financial years, the TSR on a holding of the Groups ordinary shares compared with a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE Fixed Line Allshare and the FTSE 250.
These indices have been chosen as appropriate comparators because they reflect the performance of other companies most similar to KCOM Group in terms of product and service offering and in market capital.
TSR performance since 2 April 2007 KCOM Group vs. FTSE Fixed Line Allshare and FTSE 250 Value of 100 invested at 2 April 2007 Keeping Directors and shareholders interests aligned Minimum shareholding The interests of the Executive Directors are aligned closely with those of shareholders through linking the vesting of EIP shares to TSR.
From July 2012 the Committee is introducing share ownership guidelines for the Executive Directors to hold 100 per cent of salary in shares using the vesting EIP share scheme tobuild up such a shareholding, if their current shareholding is not sufficient to meet this criteria.
Actual share ownership as a Guideline on share ownership as a Guideline percentage of salary March 2012 percentage of salary met?
Bill Halbert 100% No 1 Paul Simpson 134.4% 100% Yes 1 Kevin Walsh 230.0% 100% Yes 1 This includes matching shares awarded under the share incentive plan which may be subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 49 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration explained continued Share dilution and headroom We adhere to both the latest ABI guidelines and our own share scheme rules in limiting the level ofshare dilution.
The issue of shares to satisfy discretionary share schemes will not exceed five per cent of the Groups issued ordinary share capital in any rolling ten-year period.
Additionally, the issue of shares to satisfy allthe Groups employee share schemes will not exceed ten per cent of the Groups issued ordinary share capital in any rolling ten-yearperiod.
The Committee regularly reviews the current dilution level, available headroom and general trends.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive or benefit plans.
Their fees are reviewed every year against those for companies ofsimilar scale and complexity to KCOM Group and their fees are set by the Board asa whole.
Fees were reviewed at the end of the 2011 12 financial year and determined to be in line with the market median.
Outside appointments We believe that where Board members hold directorships in other companies the Group canbenefit from their experience.
As a result, andsubject to the Boards prior approval, ExecutiveDirectors may take on more than oneexternal non-executive directorship and retainthe fees earned.
In 2011 12 Bill Halbert received nodirectremuneration for his external non-executive positions.
Other senior executives In addition to the contribution made by the Executive Directors, the Committee recognises also that other senior executives have a direct and significant influence on the ability of the Group to achieve its goals.
Consequently, in addition to setting the reward packages for Directors, the Committee reviews alsothepackages for those senior employees to: ensure that market-competitive reward packages are being offered: and review the relativity of reward packages to both the Board and the rest of the employees.
The Committee is satisfied that an appropriate reward structure exists below Board level to motivate and retain our top talent.
Directors Service Agreements Service agreements for Executive Directors have amaximum notice period of twelve months, apart from the Executive Chairman, whose notice period is six months.
The notice period for Non-Executive Directors is six months.
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, and with effect from the 2012 AGM will be subject to annual reappointment, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Executive Directors Service Agreements allowfor payment in lieu of notice in the event of loss of office.
The Group has theability to pay this in instalments ifit so wishes.
No payment in lieu of notice is payable by the Group if an Executive Director is dismissed for serious breach of contract, serious misconduct or forserious underperformance or acts that bring the Executive Director or Group into serious disrepute.
The Group is able also to reclaim variable components ofremuneration in the exceptional circumstance of misstatement.
The Non-Executive Directors Contract for Services does not include any compensation for lossofoffice.
Date of Board appointment Notice period months Executive Directors Bill Halbert 1 September 2006 6 Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 12 Kevin Walsh 24 May 2004 12 Non-Executive Directors Graham Holden 27 November 2007 6 Tony Illsley 2 June 2009 6 Martin Towers 2 June 2009 6 50 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Remuneration report continued Audited information In this section we have included the information that is required by statute or recommended by best practice guidelines and not disclosed elsewhere in the Remuneration report.
The information that is required to be audited is labelled specifically as audited information.
We consider that we have complied with thedisclosure recommendations.
Directors emoluments Total Total Salaries fees Taxable benefits Bonuses Pensions 2011 12 2010 11 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current Directors 1 Bill Halbert 383 16 38 85 522 476 Paul Simpson 276 16 25 58 375 324 Kevin Walsh 240 25 24 55 344 311 Graham Holden 47 47 45 Tony Illsley 52 52 50 Martin Towers 47 47 45 Previous Director Paul Renucci 576 Total 1,045 57 87 198 1,387 1,827 Bill Halbert has elected not to be a member of the Group pension scheme and, accordingly, the Group made no contributions on his behalf.
Instead, he received cash payments totalling 85,350 2011: 84,600.
Directors interests The table below sets out the interests of Directors as listed on page 30 and their families inthe Groups shares at 31 March 2012, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed separately.
All of the interests held by Directors and their families are beneficial.
At 31 March 2012 ordinary shares At 31 March 2011 ordinary shares Executive Directors Bill Halbert Nil Nil 1 1 Paul Simpson 497,262 470,650 1 1 Kevin Walsh 751,127 712,827 Non-Executive Directors Graham Holden 50,000 50,000 Tony Illsley Nil Nil 2 2 Martin Towers 95,000 95,000 This includes matching shares awarded under the share incentive plan which may be subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances.
Purchased via a self-invested pension plan.
In addition on 22 and 23 May 2012 Martin Towers and his connected persons purchased an additional 65,000 shares, resulting in a total beneficial shareholding of160,000 as at 23 May 2012.
There has been a change since the end of the year where the Executive Directors participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP, forwhich we make monthly announcements as required under section 5.6.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This has resulted in the following additional shares being held: SIP holdings Executive Directors Paul Simpson 644 Kevin Walsh 648 Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 51 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Audited information continued Executive Directors interest in share options At the start of the financial year, Paul Simpson held 15,000 shares in an approved scheme.
However, these lapsed on 20 August 2011 and no further options havebeen granted during the year.
None of the other Executive Directors held share options at the beginning of the year and have not been granted further options during the year.
2 Vested shares are released in three tranches: 50 per cent after three years, and 25 per cent equally after four and five years.
3 LTCIP price on grant is an average price based on the share price at the date when purchased or transferred-in shares are entered into the plan and potential share awards are granted.
MyShare Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP was introduced in 2003 and was redesigned fundamentally in 2007 in an effort to embed a culture of share ownership throughout the Group.
Aspartofthe redesign weoffered 200 free shares to each eligible employee during 2007.
The scheme is open to all employees and offers free dividend, partnership and matching shares.
Matching shares are offered on a sliding scale of between 2:1forcontributions of 20 per month to 1:3 for contributions of over 51 per month.
Currently 1,150 employees including two Directors and six Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities participate in this scheme with an average allocation of 95 matching shares per employee per month.
We are delighted to announce that the MyShare scheme will be five years old later this year and all participants who were awarded free shares in 2007 will have access to these shares tax free after August 2012.
Any other partnership matching and dividend shares that are over five years old will be available also tax free once they reach the five-year anniversary from issue.
General information The closing mid-market price of KCOM Group PLC shares on 31 March 2012 was 73.50 pence.
The high and low closing mid-market share prices during the year were 84.50 pence and 59.25 pence respectively.
Kathy Smith Company Secretary 31 May 2012 52 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Financials A year of further successful development, reflected in the quality of our results The KCOM Group is a public limited company, which is listed ontheLondon Stock Exchange.
This section contains the financial statements, and accounting policies applied, for the financial year ended 31March 2012.
In this section 53 Independent auditors report 54 Consolidated income statement C onsolidated statement  55 Balance sheets 56 C onsolidated statement of changes inshareholdersequity 57 Parent company statement of changes inshareholdersequity 58 Cash flow statements 59 Notes to the financial statements
