OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 The Chairman of the Board was, when appointed, not independent as he was then and remains a significant shareholder of the Company.
The Chairman was appointed in 1994 and has extensive knowledge and experience of the Company along with an effective leadership style, all of which are deemed important to the role of Chairman.
Although David Beldotti has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for ten years in February 2013, he continues to meet all the above criteria to be considered independent.
The Board considers his extensive experience and knowledge of the Company and industry to be invaluable to the Companys success.
The Company does not consider his longevity as a Director to be a determining factor in determining his independence.
The Board undertakes regular reviews to ensure that its composition is balanced and that its Directors have relevant industry and financial experience.
Role and functioning of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies and ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to achieve business success.
During 2012, the following matters were covered at each of the Board meetings: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Matters covered at all Board meetings: Audit, Remuneration, Risk and Nomination committee reports to the Board Operational review including contracts, commercial and legal updates Business Development review Corporate Governance matters for Board review and approval SSH&E report Specic matters for review at each Board meeting: Review of full year financial Review of Review of interim financial results Review of results, Preliminary Statement Q1 financial results and Interim Statement Q3 financial results and Annual Report Approval of Approval of AGM Approval of Approval of final dividend and Interim Management interim dividend 2013 annual budget Statement Other matters reserved for the Boards attention and approval include: t The Groups long-term objectives and strategy.
t Matters relating to the structure and capital of the Group.
t Matters relating to major capital expenses: projects, contracts and acquisitions.
t Approval of the dividend policy.
t Board membership and senior appointments: approval of contracts with Directors or related parties including the determination of the remuneration for the Directors and executive management.
t Approval of the Board Committees terms of reference.
t Undertaking an annual review of the Boards performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive officer There is a clear and formally documented division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive officer to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure the effective functioning of the Board, including the provision of accurate, timely and clear information in relation to the Group and its business.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all Directors actively contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chairman is also responsible for encouraging debate and constructive criticism, speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board to shareholders.
The Board issatised that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for the day to day management of the Group and implementation of Group strategy, developing proposals for Board approval, and ensuring that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Advice All Directors have unrestricted access to the Corporate Company Secretary.
The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity, which provides advice on the normal statutory compliance items that enables the Board to full its role.
Directors also have unrestricted access to members of Group senior management and a right to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense in relation to their duties where they consider it appropriate to do so.
Development On joining the Board in August 2012, David MacFarlane received a full induction which was provided to develop his knowledge and understanding of the Groups business.
This induction included briengs during and between Board meetings, visits to a number of the Groups ofces and discussions with members of the Groups senior operational and functional management.
Management of conicts of interest The Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with Directors conicts of interests under which Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of such events as they arise so that they can be considered by the Board.
A Director may not vote on or be counted in the quorum to vote on any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he is interested except those specically permitted in article 61.3 of the Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors are also required to avoid any engagements with or instructions from other persons that might result in the creation of a conict of interest.
In the event such a situation has arisen, or is about to arise, the Non-Executive Director is required to notify the Board.
If the Board decides that a conict of interest has arisen, or may arise, the Non-Executive Director must immediately cease such activity or resign from the Board.
Directors are required to disclose any conicts of interests at all Board and Committee meetings that may exist or appear to exist.
The Company has a share dealing code that covers dealings in its own shares by Directors and employees.
It complies with the provisions of the UK Listing Rules and restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by Directors and employees during the designated close periods and any time that they are in possession of unpublished price-sensitive information.
A notication outlining the dates of close periods is issued to Directors and employees by the investor relations team prior to commencement of the close period.
Directors are also obliged to notify the Company of their shareholding in the Company on appointment and to seek Board approval for any acquisition or disposal of shares while acting as a Director.
The Company maintains a Register of Directors Interests at its registered ofce.
Changes to Directors interests are reviewed at each scheduled Board meeting.
Board performance evaluation For 2012, each of the Directors completed a detailed questionnaire evaluating the performance of the Chairman, Board and Board Committees.
This questionnaire was prepared and its results collated independently of the Board.
The results summary was provided to theBoard.
2012 Board and Committee members attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Review Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 57544 Non-Executive Directors Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman 5 4 Hassan Abas Resigned 29 August 2012 4 4 David MacFarlane Appointed 29 August 2012 2 1 David Beldotti 57544 Hans Kraus 575 4 Brendan Lyons 5754 Executive Directors Christian Brown Appointed 1 February 2012 5 4 Ed Power 4 4 Hugh ODonnell Resigned 31 January 2012 1 Kentz Corporation Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 Control framework and activities The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
These systems are designed to manage, but not necessarily eliminate, the risks to the Group.
They provide reasonable but not complete assurance against material loss or misstatement, including that from fraud.
The internal control systems are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Throughout the year, senior management provide the Board with related reports to assist them with this review.
The main elements of the internal control framework are set out below.
The Group has a clear management structure with dened lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
A key element of the overall control is directed by the Management Executive Committee, comprising the key senior executives of the Company.
The Committee met seven times in 2012 and its main focus and responsibilities were: t Overseeing the Safety Leadership Charter.
t Developing and implementing Group strategy.
t Carrying out formalised risk reviews on selected projects throughout the Group.
t Reviewing Group nancials, annual budgets and forecasts.
t Ensuring appropriate guidance is given to analysts.
t Reviewing Group backlog position across the Group.
The Chief Executive officer reports at each Board meeting on the Group operational environment and activities of the Management Executive Committee.
The Groups policies and procedures are reviewed on a periodic basis and updated as necessary on an on-going basis, for example those in relation to ethical business dealings as noted below.
This process is designed to ensure that the Groups policies and procedures are up-to-date, meet the Groups requirements and are in line with best practice.
UK Bribery Act 2010 The new UK Bribery Act came into force in July 2011.
No Kentz employee may take part in or condone any bribery or other corruption.
The use of improper payments to gain advantage is never acceptable.
All Kentz employees and the other parties noted above must act with integrity at all times, comply with the bribery and corruption laws of the country in which they are operating and not induce or facilitate someone else to break such laws.
They must not make or receive improper payments either directly or indirectly through third parties.
As part of Kentzs adherence to the UK Bribery Act, during 2012 approximately 500 employees throughout the Group completed an on-line training programme along with a competency test which covered Trust and reputation: Laws and offenses: and Policies and procedures.
The Company relationships with shareholders The Board represents the shareholders and is accountable to them for creating and delivering value through the effective governance of the business.
It aims to develop a mutual understanding with shareholders on the Groups strategic objectives and remains fully committed to ensuring regular communication with shareholders by reviewing the following activities: t The provision of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders.
t Press releases regarding Company news which have been issued throughout the year.
t Kentz Group website, which contains all current news, including corporate presentations and accounts.
t The Annual Report is issued to all registered shareholders and contains extensive information about the Companys activities.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting which is attended by all Directors, to deal with any matters raised by shareholders.
Questions relating to the strategy, performance and progress of the Company are welcomed at this meeting.
The CEO, CFO and the investor relations team maintain regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Formal meetings with investors, analysts and media take place throughout the year: at full year and interim results and at other times as requested by the investment community.
Copies of these results presentations can be viewed on the Groups website.
The Groups investor relations team which is based in London acts as a point of contact for investors throughout the year.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders at their request.
Insurance cover The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Company Secretary The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity, which provides advice on statutory compliance that enables the Board to full its role.
Other duties that would normally be carried out by an internal Company Secretary, such as the provision of timely information to the Board, are fullled by either the CEO or CFO.
In terms of Corporate Governance issues the Board is advised by the Group Internal Audit Manager andexternal advisers as appropriate.
The appointment or removal of a Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board issatised that the current arrangement is adequate but will continue to review its effectiveness.
Code of Business Conduct The Group continues to maintain and build on our already well-established high standards of business conduct and ethics.
In September 2011, the Company formalised all of the important behaviours expected of Group employees into a single Code of Business Conduct, which was approved by the Board.
The Group is committed to ensuring the highest legal standards and moral ethics guide all its business activities.
This applies to the behaviour of all Directors, staff, sub-contractors, agents, consultants, contract labour, suppliers and others representing or acting for, or on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries or joint ventures.
The Code of Business Conduct sets out to ensure that at every level of the organisation, at all times, all employees conduct through their own actions, their dealings internally and with third parties with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and fairness and foster an environment based on such standards, as well as complying with all related legislation in the countries in which they operate within.
The Group has its own internal procedures for monitoring compliance set out in its Code of Business Conduct, but also relies on its employees and external bodies speaking up where they become aware of actual or potential breaches of it.
Speaking up relates to the disclosure of information by an employee or external body if they have a genuine concern about malpractice anywhere in the Group, such as instances of contravention of internal policies and legal and ethical standards, including activities or inactivities that put at risk the health and safety of Group employees or others, breaches of any environmental or regulatory requirements, bribery and corruption, false accounting, fraud and failure to comply with a legal obligation or a deliberate concealment of information relating to any of the above.
The Group is committed to ensuring any employee or external bodys concerns of malpractice are taken seriously and investigated and the ways to raise such concerns are set out in the Code of Business Conduct which can be found on the Kentz website www.
Share Dealing Code The Company has a share dealing code that covers dealings by Directors and employees.
This code complies with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Rules.
This code restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by Directors and employees during the designated prohibited periods and any time that they are in possession of the unpublished price-sensitive information.
A notication outlining the dates of close periods is issued to Directors and employees by the investor relations team prior to each periods commencement.
Market disclosure We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same access to relevant information in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
Copies of announcements to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report and other relevant information are published on the Kentz website.
Kentz Corporation Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE 47 Role The Risk Review Committee is responsible for identifying the principal risks facing the Group, the methods of managing these risks, the controls that are in place to contain them and the procedures to monitor them.
The Committee also makes recommendations for consideration by the Board of any actions it deems necessary to better protect the interests of the Company.
Members of the Risk Review Committee David Beldotti Chairman Christian Brown appointed 23 March 2012 Ed Power Hans Kraus Hugh ODonnell resigned 31 January 2012 Main responsibilities The Committee shall carry out the following duties on behalf of the Board: t Monitor and provide oversight over risk projects and all risk related policies, risk management procedures and activities relating to projects and operations.
t Review and approve all proposals of higher level projects prior to submission, and ensure that they go through a full assessment and risk evaluation.
All risks are to be tabulated and either priced or excluded from the proposals.
t Review at each meeting the schedule of corporate tender approvals and the schedule of all higher risk projects.
t Review project risk management procedures of the Company and report to the Board on the results of their review.
The Committee will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on all project risk management issues.
t The Committee shall recommend to the Board the overall project risk management strategy of the Company and oversee the implementation and David Beldotti effective operation of that strategy, its policies and procedures.
Chairman, Risk Review Committee t The Committee shall satisfy itself that the key project risks of the Company are managed cost effectively and to an acceptable level, determine the priorities of project risk management activity and bring to the attention of the Board, the critical risks and recommendations.
During 2012, the Committee met four times during which they reviewed all highest risk projects on a quarterly basis.
In addition, the Committee also regularly reviews the Groups risk management procedures.
In addition to these meetings, the Committee also held conference calls during the year where members of the development group and business units presented specic project tenders which were deemed to attract a higher degree of risk.
The Committee evaluated the level of risk involved in those project tenders and it approved the risk mitigation measures to be adopted in the tender submission and during execution of the projects.
The Committee also considered and approved the entering into joint venture consortium relationships for specic projects and also recommended for signature to the Board those contracts that exceeded US$100m.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited 48 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Role The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the Board of Directors and examining the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure an appropriate mix of skills, experience, knowledge and independence of Directors.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on appointments and termination of Directors and appointments of Directors to the Board Committees.
Members of the Nomination Committee Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman Chairman Brendan Lyons David Beldotti Main responsibilities t Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
t Give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives.
t Be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
t Before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board, and, in the light of this evaluation prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
t Ensure that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
t Review the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board.
Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman t Review annually the time required from Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman, Nomination Committee t Recommend suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director.
t Make recommendations for Membership of the Board Committees.
t Make recommendations for the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of ofce.
Throughout the year, the Committee evaluated the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Directors.
During 2012, the Committee met four times.
The Committee conducted the rigorous recruitment process that led to the appointment of DavidMacFarlane as Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
Given the need to identify candidates that could serve on the Audit Committee in addition to the Board meant that the Nomination Committee had a specic focus on candidates with a relevant financial background.
The Committee is satisfied that the current composition of the Board is adequate to provide guidance to the Group.
The Committee will continue to review the Board and leadership needs of the Group and to make appropriate policy recommendations interms of skills, gender and qualications, to ensure the ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace with .
