01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 81] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 Dear Fellow Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2012.
This has been a difficult year for the company, as all can see.
In fact for the first 10 months of the year management made strong progress, with improvements in safety and mining production, and continued to achieve extremely good recoveries in the process division.
Despite this, weak PGM prices and a strong Rand made for tough trading conditions and depressed profitability.
And then the tragic events of August and September overtook us.
In this context, your Remuneration Committee has had to make some careful decisions, both to recognise the poor results, but also to recognise the sterling efforts of many to enhance and preserve the value of your assets.
Remuneration Strategy In a very similar way to FY2012 and as foreshadowed in last years report, we had put in place at the start of the year a Balanced Scorecard to drive the annual bonus plan for all our key executives based on strategically important business metrics, including the Corporate KPIs on pages 24 and 25 of the Business Review.
Safety is one of the biggest risks in our business and forms a key BSC metric, and we did make an adjustment this year to emphasise the paramount importance of avoiding fatalities.
Our long-term incentive plan performance hurdles combine operational results with the delivery of value to shareholders measured by our Relative Total Shareholder Return RTSR, providing a further tie to our strategy.
In this way, your executives interests are closely aligned with shareholder interests, and this is further underpinned by material shareholding requirements.
In July 2012, the Committee held a Blue Sky session to reconsider the fundamentals of the Companys approach to remuneration from first principles.
We had it in mind to make some changes, but the Events at Marikana overwhelmed all other considerations and, with your CEO falling ill and all of the other challenges we faced, decided to keep our pay structure stable for a period, except that we added retention bonuses to the packages for a small number of key executives.
With this in mind, no material changes to the structure or levels of pay are proposed for FY2013.
As the BSC is linked to key strategic KPIs, we do not publish the details of targets in advance but I can confirm that no material changes to the metrics are contemplated.
FY2012 pay reflects performance Details of the corporate elements of the FY2012 BSC are on page 94.
At board level 46.3% points were earned out of the overall 80% available at target.
Strong performance in safety, transformation, ore reserve creation and processing was, inevitably, offset by the loss of production and consequent rise in unit costs resulting directly from the Events at Marikana.
However, this is also a year when we have had to seek shareholders support for the Proposed Rights Issue.
In the light of this, and despite the fact that the CEO had been delivering everything asked of him prior to his unfortunate illness, the Committee has determined that the CEO should receive no bonus for FY2012.
The personal element of the CFOs bonus has been assessed at zero for the same reasons, but we decided that he should be allowed to receive a bonus as per the predetermined formula in all other respects.
We believe that his contribution to the preservation of shareholder value as Acting CEO in difficult conditions makes this entirely appropriate.
The directors performance-based long-term incentives vesting in the year failed to reach the minimum targets, and hence did not pay out.
Relations with shareholders At the AGM on 31 January 2013, we are seeking shareholder approval for the power to settle bonuses payable under the BSC in shares, which is discussed fully in the Circular published alongside this annual report.
Finally, this remuneration report is subject to an advisory vote at the 2013 AGM, and I have no hesitation in recommending it to you.
We will be happy to answer questions at the meeting, but particularly given the unusual circumstances, are available and happy to discuss remuneration matters with our shareholders at any time.
Yours faithfully, Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee 8 November 2012 www.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 82] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee has powers delegated to it by the Board as set out in terms of reference available on the Companys website.
These were last updated in November 2005.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: determine and agree with the Board the Companys executive remuneration strategy and policy: determine individual remuneration packages and terms of employment within that policy for the Executive Directors and nineteen other senior executives collectively known as the Purview Group : oversee the operation of the Companys incentive schemes, including designing and setting performance conditions for annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes: consider major changes in employee remuneration in the Group: select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee: report to shareholders through annual reports: and make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional advice: all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee The Committee comprised the following independent Non-executive Directors during the year and to the date of this report: Member From To Jim Sutcliffe Chairman 28 January 2009 To date Karen fide Segundo 20 July 2011 To date Jonathan Leslie 2 July 2009 To date Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 26 January 2012 Mr Hartnall retired from the Board at the AGM on 26 January 2012, as anticipated.
Mr Sutcliffe has considerable experience designing and implementing  remuneration systems, having been chief executive of several businesses, including a FTSE100 company.
Mrs fide Segundo has extensive executive experience in natural resources having been CEO of Shells global gas and power business, and spent five years leading Shells renewable energy business.
Mr Leslie combines his knowledge and outlook as chairman of the Safety & Sustainability Committee with the sectoral expertise gained as a director of Rio Tinto for nine years, a former CEO of Sappi and the current CEO of Extract Resources.
The Board feels that this collective experience enables the Committee to offer a balanced, informed and independent view on remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, the EVP External Affairs & Human Capital, the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and the Assistant Company Secretary, none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The meetings on 21 March 2012 and 24 July 2012 were also attended by a representative of  LLP.
After each meeting, the Committee meets with the CEO, and then in private.
See page 66 for details of the attendance record of the Committee.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee The Committee also receives views and recommendations from the CEO, the Company Secretary and the EVP : External Affairs & Human Capital in relation to executive remuneration save in relation to their own pay and on governance matters.
In addition, during the year, the Committee was materially assisted in its work by the following external consultants: Advisor Appointed by Services provided to the Committee Other services provided to the Company  LLP Committee General advice on Support management in London office remuneration matters devising remuneration proposals Benchmarking IFRS2 valuations of share Advice on market practice and schemes shareholder perspectives PwC South Africa provides Independent measurement of specialist support to the internal performance conditions audit function see page 69 Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Company Advice on employment law General UK legal advice and share schemes KPMG Audit Plc Committee Assurance in the form of External auditor and certain limited, specific checking other services see page 70 procedures on the results of the BSC 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 83] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Advisors to the Remuneration Committee continued Of these advisers, only  LLP provided advice on remuneration policy.
They were selected to do this on the basis of their previous performance.
The total cost of their services in FY2012 which are set out in the table above was 65,450, paid on a quarterly basis.
The Committee is confident that none of these cross-relationships generates an unmanageable conflict of interest and that the sums payable in respect of each service do not compromise the objectivity and impartiality of the others.
Activities of the Remuneration Committee The Committee met five times during FY2012: four times in line with its usual practice, with an additional Blue Sky session on 6 July 2012 to facilitate broad discussion of the fundamentals of the Companys approach to remuneration.
The issues set out below were among the items discussed.
Governance, risk and other Meeting Fixed pay issues Annual incentives Long term incentives matters 9 November Consider TCTC Receive auditors Approve awards Approve 2011 2011 settlements for report on FY2011 under ASAP, S&P remuneration report Lonmin workforce BSC and LTIP Consider alignment of generally, and Administration and Approve vesting the Company with ABI benchmark data in approval of FY2011 results for 2008 Principles of both UK and SA bonus payments DABS matched Remuneration paper Approve adjustments awards see page 88 Approve design of Consider BIS to the base pay of FY2012 bonus plan consultation on Executive Directors executive pay Review risk alignment and Company of the FY2012 BSC Ratify directors Secretary and to including risk of expenses for FY2011 TCTC of members of creating perverse Consider succession the Purview Group incentives planning 21 March 2012 Consider results of Ratify the final design Review vesting Review of succession TCTC benchmarking of FY 2012 BSC outcomes in planning status survey for Lonmin calendar 2012 Consider design of Review of BIS workforce generally FY 2013 BSC Approve S&P awards consultation on executive pay Ratify personal Approve LTIP awards objectives of Consider thinking on Executive Committee Lonmin managementmembers retention arrangements Review likely outcome for FY2012 BSC Approve and or ratify changes to Purview Group members 6 July 2012 Consider trends in Consider possible Consider scope for Consider scope for South African mining alternative metrics for relative weighting of simplification of Blue Sky sector BSC long-term incentives incentive meeting based on a given arrangements Consider changing roles strategic and benchmarking basis Consider possible operational measures to enhance responsibilities flexibility and certainty Consider alternative Consider retention structures for strategies in the light facilitating of changing market shareholding conditions obligation Consider perception of remuneration arrangements within the Company www.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 84] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 ROLE, STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Activities of the Remuneration Committee continued Governance, risk and Meeting Fixed pay issues Annual incentives Long term incentives other matters 24 July 2012 Approve changes to Review likely outcome Review LTIP S&P Review of succession the composition of the for FY2012 BSC awards maturing in planning status Purview Group 2012 and approve Review loss of value allotments to enable for executives on these to be settled leaving employment Approve retention Review progress award to Purview against shareholding Group member obligations Review UK governance best practice in relation to executive pay Consider government proposals in relation to disclosure of directors remuneration 11 September Consider additional Review likely outcome Approve vesting of Propose series of 2012 remuneration to be for FY2012 BSC 2009 LTIP and S&P shareholder meetings provided to Mr Scott retention awards for regarding in respect of his role executives and senior remuneration policy as acting CEO managers Review consultancy Consider interim pay Approve grant of agreements and arrangements for Mr 2012 LTIP and S&P benchmark payments Farmer during his awards for executives to consultants against absence and senior managers market norms Approve one-off cash retention award to Mr Scott see page 95 The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters to the Board and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Committee reports to shareholders annually in this report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group See p 91 The Committee is provided with information on pay across the Groups workforce generally and during FY2012 has undertaken a for how this detailed review of the bonus arrangements in place throughout the business.
When debating pay reviews for the Executive policy was Directors, the Committee is provided with both UK and SA inflation data and also insight into the increases being offered to the implemented in FY2012 Groups workforce and other staff members.
Risk alignment The Committee has considered the alignment of performance-related pay systems with the Companys key risks, and believes that the design of these systems does not create perverse incentives and incentivises effective risk management, including in relation to environmental, social and governance risks.
Relations with shareholders The Committee is committed to open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration, and consults with key institutional investors and their representative bodies when considering future policy.
At the AGM held in January 2012, the advisory vote on the remuneration report received the support of 97.2% of those voting, with holders of less than 6% of the register abstaining or withholding their votes.
The Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary have responded to a number of queries from shareholders during the year.
In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, intends to meet with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies later in the year to discuss a range of pay matters as part of the normal engagement process in relation to executive remuneration prior to the 2013 AGM.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 85] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY Policy stability The Committee does not anticipate any material changes to the structure of executives remuneration packages in FY2013.
As a result, aside from inflation-linked pay increases, the Executive Directors potential earnings have not changed since FY2008.
Non-executive Directors The Board reviews Non-executive Directors fees every two years to ensure that they are in line with market norms so that the Company can continue to attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre.
The Companys policy is to pay the base fee for the first year of each Directors appointment in advance, recognising the significant work entailed by the induction process.
From the end of that year, all fees are paid monthly in arrears.
In line with the Code, remuneration for Non-executive Directors does not include share options or other performance related elements.
Executive Directors and senior executives The Committees remuneration policy with respect to Executive Directors, members of the Purview Group, executives and managers seeks to address four objectives: attract and retain executives of the right calibre in the face of severe skills shortages in the South African mining industry: ensure alignment of executive and shareholder interests: provide clear and straightforward incentives on a consistent basis, to reward delivery of key strategic and personal objectives within agreed risk parameters: and ensure fairness: reward must be justified and performance must be rewarded to build the trust essential for retaining executives.
Frequent benchmarking exercises are undertaken to debate the position of pay relative to market, and to identify and mitigate the risk of losing strong performers.
Different elements of executive pay are delivered over the short and longer terms, to recognise each individuals responsibilities and performance, as summarised below.
Fixed pay Performance-related pay Annual Long term delivered over three years Balanced Scorecard BSC Bonus Annual Share Award Plan ASAP Annual awards matching value of Plan cash settled Base pay award under BSC Bonus Plan in Annual bonus of up to 125% of base relevant year, converted into notional See Pages 86 and 92 salary in relevant year dependent on no.
of shares on grant, deferred for performance metrics aligned with three years and subject to claw-back strategic objectives and the See Page 87 corporate risk register Benefits car, life and other health Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP See Pages 86 and 94 1 insurances Stay & Prosper Plan S&P Annual awards of from zero to 150% See Pages 86 and 92 of base pay in relevant year, at Committees discretion, converted into notional no.
of shares on grant and deferred for 3 years, with vesting Pension contribution or salary value linked to 3-year corporate supplement performance, emphasising RTSR See Pages 92 and 93 See Page 87 Shareholding obligation places material amount of personal wealth at risk 1 For historic reasons awards to managers in the Companys South African operating companies are made under the S&P which is now materially similar to the LTIP see page 87 for details of the remaining differences between the schemes.
All long-term share awards are subject to continued service, although individuals classified as a Good Leaver may retain their awards, subject to pro-rating for time, with any applicable performance conditions being assessed on the vesting date.
Each element of the remuneration package has different characteristics, and plays an important role.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 86] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Base pay, benefits and pension Purpose Policy How it operates Attract and retain executives of the Base pay and benefits Base pay and benefits right calibre Base salary reflects market median Base pay is paid monthly in cash levels, subject to experience and Base pay for UK executives is performance supplemented with a car plus fuel Executive Directors and UK senior or cash allowance in lieu, private executives are benchmarked against medical insurance, income other UK listed companies of protection insurance and life comparable size and, where assurance and the option of appropriate, relevant international annual medicals mining companies Senior executives based in South Senior executives in South Africa are Africa have a total cost to company benchmarked against South African TCTC package which covers base market practice pay and all benefits.
This is in line with market practice in South Africa Pension Reviewed annually, effective Provide a market competitive level of 1 October provision with good flexibility Minimise risk to the Company Pension associated with defined benefit plans Defined contribution funding or cash salary supplement at executives choice All of Lonmins defined benefit pension plans have been wound-up in an orderly manner and the trusts dissolved Balanced Scorecard BSC Bonus Plan Purpose Policy How it operates Provide clear and straightforward Annual bonus linked to base salary Each metric has a percentage of incentives on a consistent basis, to only and based on metrics aligned base pay allocated to it the target reward delivery of key strategic and with strategic objectives and the amount for that metric personal objectives within agreed risk corporate risk register There are generally four levels of parameters For the Executive Directors the performance for each metric: Ensure fairness: reward must be metrics are weighted so that: a Below Threshold: 0% of the target justified and performance must be a 80% of value is linked to corporate amount payable rewarded to build the trust essential KPIs: and b Threshold: 50% of the target amount for retaining executives b 20% of value is linked to personal payable objectives c Target: 100% of the target amount For other executives the metrics are payable adjusted to give greater weight to d Stretch: 150% of the target amount factors under the control or influence payable of that executive FY2012 scheme design provides for CEO CFO bonus of 83.5% of base salary if performance on every element was at target, with the stretch bonus capped at 125% of base salary The Committee adjusts the design of the BSC each year to incentivise the delivery of key strategic objectives across a range of areas, including risk, environmental, governance and social issues and to address short-term imperatives.
The FY2012 BSC design is fully aligned with corporate strategy, KPIs, and the corporate risk register.
The metrics, targets and outcomes of the FY2012 BSC are summarised on page 94, and no material change to the structure of the BSC is expected for FY2013.
The results of the BSC are only declared after the underlying data has been assured by KPMG.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 87] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Annual Share Award Plan ASAP Purpose Policy How it operates Ensure alignment of executive and Facilitates material exposure to the Value converted into notional number shareholder interests Companys shares by Executive of shares on award date Directors and members of the Value is forfeitable if the executive Structured as nil-cost option Purview Group leaves employment within three Vests on third anniversary of grant, years, providing a clear retention Value matches value of award under subject to continued service incentive BSC Bonus Plan in relevant year to Once vested may be exercised at incentivise delivery of strategic Shareholders interests are protected any time between the third and tenth objectives and align reward with through claw-back provisions anniversaries of grant at executives performance discretion Claw back mechanism ensures Settled in shares fairness Claw back in the event of a Delayed vesting acts as retention tool restatement of the results for the year for which the applicable BSC Bonus Plan award was assessed during the three year holding period Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Stay & Prosper Plan S&P Purpose Policy How it operates 1 Ensure alignment of executive and Annual awards, settled in shares Value of award converted into notional shareholder interests on vesting number of shares on award date Attract and retain executives of the Facilitates material exposure to the Vesting is deferred for 3 years, right calibre Companys shares by Executive subject to continued service Directors and members of the Ensure fairness: median performance The performance condition Purview Group should lead to median pay and upper combines the corporate elements of 2 quartile performance should lead to Value of grant is from zero to 150% the BSC averaged over 3 years with upper quartile total reward of base pay, at the Remuneration Relative Total Shareholder Return Committees discretion to align over 3 years, and emphasises RTSR overall remuneration with see page 87 performance subject to robust For Executive Directors 100% of delivery of value to shareholders over value vests subject to the subsequent three years performance conditions For executives and managers 50% of value vests subject to the performance conditions, and 50% is a retention award 1 S&P awards may be settled in cash or shares at the time of vesting, at the Committee s discretion.
Current policy is to settle in shares.
2 No formal limit on grant size is contained in the LTIP rules, but the Company has given a commitment that in normal circumstances awards will be limited to 150% of base pay.
Awards to Executive Directors and certain managers are made using the LTIP.
For historic reasons, awards to managers in our South African operating companies are made under the S&P, a separate plan.
The design and operation of the S&P design has converged with that of the LTIP, but two differences remain.
First, following a change of control of Lonmin Plc, LTIP awards vest and become payable, subject to pro-rating for performance, time and any other factors considered relevant by the Remuneration Committee, whereas S&P awards crystallise in full but remain payable on their normal vesting date, subject to continued employment.
Secondly, whereas LTIP awards are always settled in shares, on vesting S&P awards may be settled either in shares or by a cash payment equal to such shares market value on vesting.
Our current policy is that such awards are settled through the issue of new shares.
Performance conditions As noted above, LTIP awards to the Executive Directors are wholly subject to performance conditions, with half of each LTIP or S&P award made to executives and managers subject to the same conditions.
The Committee considers the relevance of proposed performance conditions to ensure their alignment with corporate strategy.
RTSR has always been used by Lonmin as a performance condition, ensuring that executive remuneration reflects actual returns delivered to shareholders.
The relative nature of this test creates an objective metric of long-term performance for shareholders which is largely independent of the short-term variability introduced into reported results by volatile metal prices and exchange rates particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 88] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Performance conditions continued Following meetings with key institutional shareholders in 2010, the Committee decided to introduce a performance condition recognising, at a low level, the sustained hard work required in difficult times before the result is recognised in the share price.
After exploring a number of options, and further shareholder consultation, the Committee concluded that the corporate elements of the BSC were well-suited to this purpose, and adopted a performance condition based on both the corporate elements of the BSC and RTSR, in each case measured over three-year periods, and emphasising RTSR.
This approach has been used since 2010.
The matrix below illustrates the vesting outcomes as a percentage of the face value of the award, with full interpolation between the points shown for the LTIP and S&P awards made since 2010: % of face value vesting RTSR result Factor Average BSC performance over three years BSC result Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Max Factor 0.0x 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x RTSR performance Median 5% pa 0.0x 0% 0% 0% 0% Median 5% pa 0.0x 0% 8.33% 16.66% 25% Median 0.5x 0% 16.66% 33.33% 50% Median 5% pa 1.0x 0% 25% 50% 75% Median 10% pa 1.5x 0% 33.33% 66.66% 100% Factors are multiplied and, as the maximum is 2.0 x 1.5 3, the result is then divided by 3 to derive the vesting percentage.
The matrix shows that results emphasise RTSR even with every BSC item delivering at stretch, with median RTSR the plans deliver only half the face value.
RTSR is assessed by PwC using data normalised into US Dollars, sourced from Datastream or other independent providers.
Historic performance conditions Since LTIP and S&P awards have a three year performance and vesting period, in FY2012 the Committee assessed the performance conditions applicable to the 2008 and 2009 awards, using the metrics detailed below.
Historically, performance conditions combined RTSR with EBIT targets, which were used as a metric of medium-term value creation.
When setting the performance conditions for the 2008 and 2009 awards, the Committee considered that, because EBIT was difficult to forecast given turbulent market conditions at the time, absolute share price targets should be used, as set out below.
% of Basis of component of Award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released 1 2008 DAB 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 2009 LTIP 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% 2009 S&P Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20% London Stock Exchange Stretch 100% Vesting 2009 LTIP to 33.3% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 0% events 2 FY2012 Executive Directors 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% See p 88 for more 33.3% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20% information London Stock Exchange Stretch 100% 33.3% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 0% London Stock Exchange with Stretch 100% higher threshold to reward exceptional performance 1 For details of this historic share scheme, see Appendix 1.
2 These 2009 LTIP awards had different performance conditions to those granted to other executives and managers in order to incentivise exceptional performance.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 89] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Comparator groups of companies for RTSR The Committee regularly reviews the RTSR comparator group to ensure that it remains relevant and therefore properly reflects the returns delivered to shareholders.
For awards made to 2009, the Committee used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a broadly-based global mining group with whom the Company was likely to be in competition for executive talent.
These companies are set out in the table below.
To assess RTSR, Lonmins ranking in the group is determined.
Reward only accrues if Lonmin is placed at median or higher, and full vesting only occurs if Lonmin ranks first or second.
African Rainbow Minerals Exxaro Resources Rio Tinto Anglo American First Quantum Minerals Stillwater Mining Anglo Gold Ashanti Gold Corp Teck Cominco Anglo American Platinum Gold Fields Umicore Antofagasta Impala Platinum Vale Aquarius Platinum Johnson Matthey Xstrata BHP Billiton Norilsk Nickel For awards made from August 2010 onwards, to reflect the divergence of the primary PGM market from the mining sector generally and ensure a fairer comparison, the Committee used a group of five primary PGM producers, four of whom also operate principally in South Africa: Anglo American Platinum Impala Platinum Stillwater Mining Aquarius Platinum Northam Platinum Given this small peer group, a ranking approach could lead to perverse outcomes were the Groups results to be tightly clustered, with very small differences in RTSR potentially leading to large differences in rank.
Therefore Lonmins TSR performance is compared to the median of the group.
Executive Share Options Other than the ASAP awards detailed in this report, no executive share options have been granted since 2003.
See Appendix 1 for details of these historic share options.
Dilution The rules of the Companys employee share plans limit the total commitment to issue new shares across all plans to 10% of issued share capital.
Since the Company does not operate all-employee schemes due to exchange controls and for other local South African reasons, shareholders have agreed on a number of occasions that the whole of this 10% can be used for discretionary share plans.
In practice, the total commitment is well within the 5% inner limit that would otherwise apply.
Historic Historic Executive Share Options Schemes ESOS options are satisfied with new-issued shares.
Awards under the LTIP and share historic DABP Matched Awards are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the Companys employee benefit trust schemes or the issue of new shares.
Awards under the S&P are currently settled in new issue shares, but could be settled in cash at the See p 100 Committees discretion.
for more information The table below shows the Companys current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long-term incentive schemes assuming that all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in new issue shares, in line with the Committees current policy.
% of Vested Other % of At issued shares equity At issued 30.09.11 share Granted issued Lapsed issued 30.09.12 share m capital m m m m m capital Undiluted issued share capital 202.7 100 0.4 203.1 100 Shares under awards 4.0 1.97 4.3 0.4 0.9 7.0 3.45 Fully diluted issued share capital 206.7 210.10 Limit: 10% in 10 years 20.3 20.31 Remaining headroom 16.3 13.31 www.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 90] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Shareholding obligation In 2010 the Committee was asked by shareholders to consider whether the remuneration programme had sufficiently long-term characteristics, and specifically whether the period over which rewards are assessed or earned should be longer than three years.
The Committee considered these concerns, and concluded that the most effective way to align the interests of executives and shareholders in the long-term was to increase the shareholding obligation target levels to those set out below, placing real personal wealth at risk.
Purpose Policy How it operates Ensure alignment of executive and Executives are expected to Target shareholding should be equal shareholder interests accumulate over five years and then in value to the following percentages Value of maintain a material holding of of notional base salary: each Company shares, scaled in line with Directors CEO: 300% their seniority current CFO: 200% shareholding Exco Members and NEDs: 100% against target Members of Purview Group: 50% See p 99 Strategic alignment of the pay programme The pay elements detailed above combine to incentivise the delivery of operational results and value to shareholders, in line with the Committees overall objectives.
Change is only made where there is a clear rationale, in order to preserve clear performance goals for participating executives.
Policy objective Short term incentives Long term incentives 80% of BSC linked to strategicallyLTIP performance condition aligned corporate KPIs see page 94 Clear incentive for delivery of strategic objectives Corporate KPIs from BSC 20% of BSC linked to stretching averaged over three financial years personal objectives aligned to strategic goals combined with ASAP award value equal to gross bonus TSR relative to PGM peer group earned annually, with vesting delayed median over three years until three years from date of grant Alignment with shareholders long-term interests Shareholding obligation 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 91] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Intended effect of policy for Executive Directors The charts below illustrate the total pay of the Executive Directors for different levels of performance, and the sources of that remuneration.
Threshold is the first point at which any element of bonus is payable, and forms the minimum level of achievement for which any part of the LTIP awards can vest.
CEO Ian Farmer Stretch Stretch Target Target Below Below Threshold Threshold 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 000s % Pensions Salary Benefits in kind Bonus ASAP LTIP CFO and Acting CEO Simon Scott Stretch Stretch Target Target Below Below Threshold Threshold 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 000s % Pensions Salary Benefits in kind Bonus ASAP LTIP At target levels of performance, around 55% of the Mr Farmers total pay, and around 65% of Mr Scotts total pay, arises from performance-related elements, rising to over 70% at stretch levels for Mr Farmer and Mr Scott, at which point total pay is capped.
The Committee is satisfied that there is a strong incentive for the prudent management of risk.
Non-Group directorships It is both the Companys policy and generally a requirement of the individuals contract of employment that the Executive Directors may only take up non-executive directorships or similar appointments with the approval of the Board.
The Board would not normally agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
No Executive Director currently holds any non-executive directorship or other appointment outside the Group.
Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role would generally be permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
Notice periods, service contracts and other contractual arrangements Directors The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Code regarding service contracts.
All notice periods are one year or less.
service The company may opt to pay in lieu of any unworked notice period, with only base salary and contractual benefits payable.
The contracts ability of the Company to impose restrictions on the departing executive, including the non-solicitation of key staff, is important and and appropriate provisions are included in their contracts to this effect.
Otherwise there is no pre-determined compensation for letters of termination.
appointment See p 99 The Committee is responsible for deciding whether any further discretionary payment should be made on termination of an for more Executive Directors employment and applies the provisions of the Code and other best practice to the facts of each case in doing information so, recognising and reflecting the individuals duty to mitigate their loss where appropriate.
Our policy is to avoid rewarding poor performance and to minimise the Companys expenditure whilst fairly recognising long and successful service.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 92] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 Directors remuneration The total cash remuneration paid to all Directors in FY2012 was 2,395,153 2011 4,278,470.
Non-executive Directors No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive fees were last reviewed in July 2011 in the light of an independent market review, and no increases were made.
Non-executive Directors fees in respect of FY2012 are set out below.
Key: C Chairman, S Senior Independent Director, M Member 1 FY2012 fees for Mr Hartnall relate to the period from 1 October 2011 to his retirement on 26 January 2012.
2 Mr Seedat provides ad hoc consultancy services to the Company under a separate consultancy agreement.
His payments in Rand pursuant to this agreement have been converted into s using the average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2012 of 1 R12.6827.
See page 100 for further details.
3 FY2011 fees for Mr Seedat relate to the period 1 January 2011 to 30 September 2011.
4 FY2012 fees for Mr Sutcliffe reflect his appointment as Senior Independent Director on Mr Hartnalls retirement on 26 January 2012, with both directors paid fees in respect of this office attributable to the day of transition.
5 FY2011 fees for Mr Seedat have been restated to include amounts paid in respect of his consultancy agreement and attributable to FY2011, which have been converted in Sterling using the average ZAR:GBP rate for FY2011 of R11.1498.
Executive Directors Mr Farmers and Mr Scotts pay was increased by 2.5% on 1 October 2011, in line with underlying UK inflation data to preserve, but not increase, their pay in real terms.
In considering this decision, the Remuneration Committee took into account pay elsewhere in the Group, which increased during the financial year by 5% for other UK-based employees, 6.5% for mid-level management in South Africa and 9%-10% for unionised manual workers.
The table below sets out each Executive Directors fixed pay, benefits and cash bonuses for FY2012.
For details of the Executive Directors share awards and other long-term incentives, see page 97.
1 Historically, as is usual in South Africa, Mr Scotts fixed remuneration was expressed in the form of TCTC which included the cash value of certain benefits which would have been itemised separately for a UK employee.
To ensure that his short and long-term incentives did not reflect these items, Mr Scott was deemed to have a notional salary equal to 80% of his TCTC for these purposes.
To maintain this position following the decision to adopt a dual-contract structure for Mr Scott see page 99 his TCTC was redenominated as a fixed Sterling amount and reallocated across both contracts such that his aggregate salary was equal to 80% of his TCTC under the previous structure.
Accordingly, his aggregate fixed remuneration has been itemised in the table as for a UK employee.
2 Benefits in kind for the UK remunerated Executive Directors comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medicals.
The costs of life assurance and income protection insurance are not reflected as the Company is the named beneficiary of these policies.
Ian Farmers total benefits include costs of 127,863 relating to his secondment to South Africa and comprise housing allowance, home leave family visits and local private medical insurance.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 93] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Executive Directors continued 3 Mr Farmer opted for pension entitlements to be paid in cash.
The figure disclosed for Mr Farmer reflects this cash payment and in addition his entitlement to a pension cash supplement, explained below.
Mr Farmers entitlement to this supplement ceased in June 2012.
The Company contributes an amount equal to 20.52% of Simon Scotts pensionable basic salary under his South African contract, which is remitted as a Company contribution to a defined contribution plan.
The remainder of his pensions entitlements under both contracts are paid in cash.
4 Other for Mr Scott includes payments attributable to FY2012 in respect of his role as acting CEO since 24 August 2012.
For further details of these arrangements see page 94.
5 Although the Groups reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling.
In FY2011 Mr Farmer was paid in Sterling whilst Mr Scott was paid in Rand, and the FY2011 conversion uses the average ZAR:GBP rate for FY2011 of R11.1498.
For FY2012, Mr Scotts fixed remuneration was redenominated as a Sterling liability see footnote 1 above.
6 In addition to the amounts in the table, the Executive Directors received long-term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this report.
The Directors total emoluments for the year do not include any fair value share option award charges.
7 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Purview Group In addition to the Executive Directors, the remuneration of nineteen other senior executives, the vast majority of whom are employed in South Africa, fall within the purview of the Committee.
The base salaries UK employees or TCTC SA employees for those employed at the end of FY2012 fell within the following bands: Number of Number of executives executives 1 2 Salary bands FY2012 FY2011 100,000 to 150,000 1 150,000 to 200,000 11 7 200,000 to 250,000 56 250,000 to 300,000 22 300,000 to 400,000 1 Average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2012 of 1 R12.6827 used.
2 Average ZAR:GBP exchange rate for FY2011 of 1 R11.1498 used.
In addition, Purview Group executives participate in short and long-term incentive arrangements as detailed in the Remuneration Policy section.
Former Directors Mr Ferguson, a former director of the Company, was engaged to provide consultancy services to Lonmin in the aftermath of the Events at Marikana and the liquidity pressures which this placed on the Company.
The value of these services attributable to FY2012 is 46,000.
Pensions Former defined benefit pension scheme arrangements The Company closed its defined benefit pension scheme in June 2007, and subsequently wound this up on an orderly basis.
All UK employees who were active members when the scheme was withdrawn were provided with a non-pensionable and non-bonusable salary supplement for five years from that date to partially compensate them for the loss caused by their accrued benefits ceasing to be linked to future salary growth, which ceased on 30 June 2012.
As a former member of the scheme, Mr Farmer received a salary supplement of 25,425 in FY2012.
The Company also increased the level of life assurance and income continuance insurance provided to this group for the duration of their continued employment, to reflect respectively the loss of the spouses and ill-health early retirement pensions provided by the scheme.
Current pension arrangements UK based executives are provided with a pension supplement, which may be taken either as a pension contribution to a defined contribution plan, or in cash.
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of its UK employees.
No Executive Directors are members of this scheme, and in FY2012 Ian Farmer received a payment equal to 30% of base salary, which he elected to take in cash.
In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry wide defined contribution pension plan.
The Company contributes an amount equal to 20.52% of Simon Scotts pensionable basic salary under his South African contract, which is remitted as a Company contribution to this plan.
No element of any Directors remuneration other than base salary is pensionable.
Except as disclosed above, the Company has given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director.
No former Director enjoys pension benefits in excess of those that would have been provided, in accordance with the historic provisions of the trust deeds and rules, to all members of the relevant former scheme.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 94] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Life assurance As a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer is provided with life assurance benefits of eight times salary, for the reasons noted above, as a contractual benefit.
Simon Scotts contracts of employment provide for life assurance benefits of four times annual salary.
All of these benefits are fully insured.
Interim arrangements regarding Mr Scotts Role as Acting CEO On 24 August 2012, in view of Mr Farmers illness see page 8, Mr Scott was appointed Acting CEO.
Accordingly, his remuneration was increased in FY2012 by 13,159 to take account of his additional responsibilities.
Of this, 10,550.58 was attributable to an increase to his base salary of 99,150 p. a. to be applied for the duration of his appointment, with his other contractual benefits scaled up accordingly during the applicable period.
The Committee considered that it was appropriate to take account of this increase to Mr Scotts base salary when assessing the value of his BSC Bonus award for FY2012, and in the future.
Mr Farmers remuneration in FY2012 was not adjusted as a result of his absence from 24 August to 30 September 2012, in keeping with the provisions of his contract of employment.
Annual bonus FY2012 required a continuing focus on the Companys cost base, while delivering increased production targets and minimising the risks to the Company safety, development and transformation objectives.
The BSC was therefore designed to ensure the Company focused on delivering these strategic objectives, which largely reflect the corporate Key Performance Indicators shown on pages 24 and 25.
In view of the tragic Events at Marikana, the Committee has determined bonuses for FY2012 on the basis of the BSC to the end of July 2012, but with no bonus payable for the months of August and September 2012.
It believes that the resulting payment is fair to both management and shareholders.
The results set out in the table below have been determined on this basis.
% of bonus Actual opportunity payment on offer for for the year Target Actual target % of bonus Strategic element Metric performance performance performance opportunity Safety: improvement in lost time Percentage improvement on 5% LTIFR 15% 15.1% injury frequency rate FY2011 with multiplier based improvement improved by on number of fatalities 5 11.5% but fatalities or more means zero 2 fatalities achievement occurred in the year Transformation: meeting % HDSAs in management roles 35% 36% 5% 6.3% employment equity targets % HDSAs in senior management roles 31% 32% 5% 6.3% Platinum production Pt oz in finished metal 765,500 687,372 20% 0.0% Available ore reserves Square metres 3,369,685 3,327,795 5% 3.8% Primary haulage development Linear metres of haulages created 38,404 34,756 5% 0.0% Operating unit costs Rands per PGM oz 8,009 8,507 15% 0.0% PGM instantaneous recovery rate % 80.2% 82.4% 10% 15.0% Subtotal: Corporate KPIs 80% 46.3% 1 Personal 3-4 stretching personal goals 20% 0% 1 Total 100% 46.3% 1 Average for Ian Farmer and Simon Scott.
The scorecard incentivises production rather than sales to eliminate the impacts that would otherwise result from unsold stocks of finished materials held at year ends.
All corporate results were agreed to supporting data by KPMG.
Bonus payments to the Executive Directors No bonus was awarded to Mr Farmer for FY2012 for the reasons explained in the Committee Chairmans letter on page 81.
The bonus payment to be paid to Mr Scott for FY2012 equates to 46.3% of the target level of bonus and, as explained on page 96, 38% of his aggregate annual salary under his UK and South African contracts taking into account the uplift in respect of his role as Acting CEO since 24 August 2012.
As noted on that page, an ASAP award will be made to Mr Scott at the time that the bonus is paid with a face value equal to the gross value of his FY2012 bonus payment.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 95] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Cash retention award to Simon Scott On 11 September 2012 the Committee approved the basis of an exceptional one-off cash retention award to Mr Scott, to help provide immediate stability for the Company following Mr Scotts appointment as Acting CEO on 24 August 2012 and in the midst of the multiple issues facing the Company at that time.
The Company would normally have consulted shareholders in advance of making such an award, but considered that the extraordinary circumstances made it advisable to create certainty for the Company.
Following discussion by the Committee as to the precise terms of the performance condition, the award was granted on 7 November 2012, with a face value of 814,625, being 2.5 times Mr Scotts CFO basic salary for FY2012.
The award will vest on 7 November 2015, subject to a performance condition requiring that the average corporate BSC performance for FY 2013, FY2014 and FY 2015 must be at or above threshold and in addition Mr Scotts average performance in respect of his personal KPIs under the BSC for the same financial years must exceed 65%.
If either of these tests is not met, the entire award will lapse in full.
The award is subject to continued employment with Good Leaver provisions applying in specified circumstances for example death, ill-health or redundancy, or at the Committees discretion.
Should Mr Scott be classified as a Good Leaver the performance condition will be assessed in relation to completed financial years, with the Committee making such adjustments as it considers appropriate to take account of the shortened performance period.
If the performance condition is met, the award will vest immediately, subject to pro-rating for time.
Otherwise it will lapse in full.
On a change of control of the Company, the Committee will consider whether the performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the relevant period using the same procedure.
However, the vesting date will not change, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and the award will not be pro-rated for time.
If the performance condition is not satisfied the award will lapse in full.
Otherwise the award will be paid on the vesting date, or, if earlier, upon Mr Scott ceasing to be employed by the Group unless he resigns other than in circumstances constituting constructive dismissal, ceases to be employed without giving or receiving notice, or his employment is terminated for a reason which would have justified summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse in full.
Only Mr Scott is eligible to receive such an award, and the provisions of the award in relation to its maximum value, the performance condition and the basis of vesting cannot be altered to the advantage of Mr Scott without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to take account of legislative change, or tax or regulatory treatment, or of an administrative nature.
The award is not pensionable.
The terms of the award are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
Long term Incentives LTIP Awards On 28 September 2012, LTIP and S&P awards were made to a number of managers.
The closing mid-market share price on that date was 557.5p but the strike price, being the average for the final twenty working days of August 2012 in line with the Companys protocols, was 672p.
Vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of the performance conditions detailed on page 87.
No LTIP awards were made to either of the Executive Directors during the year.
Maturities A number of awards reached maturity on the third anniversary of their dates of grant during the year: DABP On 2 December 2011 the historic 2008 DABP matched awards matured.
The performance condition was: RTSR element 50% of performance award this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and metals DABP companies over the three years ending to 30 June 2014.
The Company finished below median and this portion of the Scheme award did not vest See p 100 Share Price element 50% of performance award this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London for more Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 30 June 2014.
Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore this information portion of the award did not vest Retention element for managers other than the Executive Directors 100% of retention award as this required only continued service, this portion of the outstanding awards vested in full LTIP On 7 January 2012 the LTIP awards granted on 7 January 2009 matured.
The performance condition was: RTSR element 50% of performance award this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and metals companies over the three years ending 31 October 2011.
The Company finished below median and this portion of the award did not vest Share Price element 50% of performance award this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 31 October 2011.
The Company finished below threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest LTIP On 14 September 2012 the LTIP and S&P awards granted on 14 September 2009 matured.
The performance condition for the LTIP award granted to Ian Farmer was: RTSR element one-third of performance award this was based on Lonmin TSR relative to a group of 20 mining and metals companies over the three years ending 31 August 2012.
The Company finished below median and this portion of the award did not vest Share Price element two-thirds of performance award this was based on the average Lonmin share price on the London Stock Exchange in the three month period leading up to 31 August 2012, with two thresholds each tied to one-third of the performance award.
The Company finished below both thresholds and therefore this portion of the award did not vest www.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 96] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Maturities continued The performance conditions for the LTIP and S&P performance awards granted to executives and managers was: RTSR element 50% of performance award as for the RTSR element of the award granted to Mr Farmer.
The Company finished below median and this portion of the award did not vest Share Price element 50% of performance award as for the Share Price element of the award granted to Mr Farmer, but with only one threshold.
Lonmin finished beneath this threshold and therefore this portion of the award did not vest.
The LTIP and S&P retention awards which matured on this date vested.
However, those members of the Exco who were entitled to receive these awards waived their entitlement voluntarily.
Make up of Executive Directors remuneration The remuneration of the two Executive Directors attributable to FY2012 is set out below: Ian Farmer Simon Scott 19% 17% 50% 21% 19% 62% 2% 10% Salary 579,000 Base Salary 339,009 Pensions 199,125 Pensions 65,168 Benefits in kind 155,480 Benefits in kind 15,375 Bonus 130,311 ASAP 130,311 Strategic Notes to the charts alignment 1 Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable, as per footnote 2 to the table at the bottom of of the page 92.
Executive 2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year.
Directors 3 See page 87 for details regarding ASAP awards.
pay 4 Pension is stated at the cash cost to the Company.
See p 90 5 Base salary for Mr Scott includes the uplift in respect of his appointment as Acting CEO since 24 August 2012.
In FY2012, performance-related pay therefore comprised 0% of Mr Farmers total remuneration of 933,605 and 38% of Mr Scotts total remuneration of 680,174.
For details of the cash retention award granted to Mr Scott on 7 November 2012, in FY2013, see page 95.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 97] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Directors awards in respect of Lonmin shares The awards held by Directors over ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the year ending 30 September 2012, and their transactions during that year, are set out in the table below: During year Market Market price National value Vested at date of pre-tax as at 3 Performance Date of As at and As at Vesting vesting gain 30.09.12 1 2 Scheme condition Grant 30.09.11 Granted released Lapsed 30.09.12 date p Executive Directors Ian Farmer DABP MA a 02.12.08 9,296 9,296 02.12.11 N. A. Nil Nil LTIP a 07.01.09 15,718 15,718 07.01.12 N. A. Nil Nil LTIP b 14.09.09 57,152 57,152 14.09.12 N. A. Nil Nil LTIP c 02.08.10 51,886 51,886 02.08.13 289,264 LTIP c 03.08.11 58,223 58,223 03.08.14 324,593 6 ASAP d 12.12.11 27,628 27,628 12.12.14 154,026 Total 192,275 27,628 82,166 137,737 767,884 Simon Scott LTIP c 29.09.10 20,434 20,434 29.09.13 113,920 LTIP c 03.08.11 22,481 22,481 03.08.14 125,332 6 ASAP d 12.12.11 13,180 13,180 12.12.14 73,479 Total 42,915 13,180 56,095 312,731 This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to Audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 Key to schemes: DABP MA Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards see page 95 : LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan Awards see page 95 : and ASAP Annual Share Award Plan see page 87.
2 Key to performance conditions: a 50% RTSR Global mining group 50% Share Price see page 88 : b 33% RTSR Global mining group 66% Share Price see page 88 : c BSC RTSR PGM peers see page 88 : and d automatic vesting subject to continued service.
3 Value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 28 September 2012 557.5p and assumes save in the case of shares that have lapsed continued service and full vesting.
4 The closing middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 557.5p on 28 September 2012, and the price ranged between 529.5p and 1166p during the financial year.
5 Other than as regards ASAP, when awards vest shares are transferred to the participant.
To maintain a close alignment with shareholders interests, cash equal to the dividends that would have accrued on these shares during the performance period is also paid, at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
During FY2012, no share awards to either Mr Farmer or Mr Scott vested, and so no amounts were payable to them in line with this policy.
6 ASAP awards are structured as nil-cost options, which upon vesting may be exercised from the third anniversary of grant until the tenth anniversary of grant at the recipients discretion.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 98] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Value at risk The following tables illustrate the value each Executive Director has at risk and how this component of personal wealth has fluctuated during the year, based on: a the shares: and b the share options and awards assuming full vesting and that they were held throughout the year : held by each as at 30 September 2012: Number of Executive Directors shares held Low High Closing Date 05 September 28 October 28 September 2012 2011 2012 Share price p 529.5p 1166p 557.5p 1 Ian Farmer 79,712 422,075 929,442 444,394 Simon Scott 1 Mr Farmers shareholding includes 32,741 shares purchased under the DABP and held via the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust, of which 18,883 will be released on or after 24 November 2012 and 13,858 will be released on or after 07 December 2013, in each case subject only to continued service see page 100.
Number of shares Executive Directors under options or awards Low High Closing Date 05 September 28 October 28 September 2012 2011 2012 Share price p 529.5p 1166p 557.5p Ian Farmer 137,737 729,317 1,606,013 767,884 Simon Scott 56,095 297,023 654,068 312,730 Shareholder value performance The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be assessed.
The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2012, of 100 invested in Lonmins shares five years previously, compared with the current value in Sterling terms of the same amount invested at the same date in: a the FTSE 100 index: and b the median of the PGM peer group detailed on page 89, assuming dividends and other benefits were reinvested in each case.
These comparators are used since the Company has been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 for the majority of this five-year period and the PGM peer group is used to assess RTSR pursuant to the performance conditions for the LTIP see page 87.
The Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Companys performance.
60 40 20 0 -20 -40 -60 -80 -100 Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PGM Peer Group FTSE 100 Lonmin % 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 99] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED Directors shareholdings continued As noted on page 99, Executive Directors and other executives are subject to a shareholding obligation.
The Board continues to recommend that Non-executive Directors also hold Lonmin shares, with a target value of 100% of their base fees, to ensure that shareholder value informs all Board decisions.
The table below sets out the shareholdings of each Director in office during FY2012, together with the market value of such interests as a percentage of their base pay fees as at 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2011.
Market value of Market value of shareholding at shareholding at Target 30 September 30 September At 30.09.12 At 30.09.11 shareholding 2012 as a 2011 as a or earlier date or later date as a % of % of FY2012 % of FY2011 of retirement of appointment base salary base salary base salary 1 1 Director Shares Shares base NED fee base NED fee base NED fee 2 Ian Farmer 79,712 79,712 300% 77% 148% Len Konar 1,500 100% 17% Jonathan Leslie 4,900 4,900 100% 55% 103% David Munro 7,700 7,700 100% 86% 162% Roger Phillimore 22,750 22,750 100% 254% 478% 3 Cyril Ramaphosa 100% Simon Scott 200% Mahomed Seedat 30,621 30,621 100% 341% 644% Karen fide Segundo 2,108 2,108 100% 24% 44% Jim Sutcliffe 4,536 4,536 100% 51% 95% Former Director Michael Hartnall 4,888 4,888 n a 103% 1 Shareholding includes shares held via nominees.
2 Mr Farmers shareholding includes 32,741 shares purchased under the DABP and held via the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust, of which 18,883 will be released on or after 24 November 2012 and 13,858 will be released on or after 07 December 2013, in each case subject only to continued service see page 100.
3 Mr Ramaphosa is a major shareholder in and chairman of Shanduka Group, which controls Incwala.
This latter company has an 18% equity interest in Lonmins principal South African operating subsidiaries, which comprise all of the Groups operational activities and substantially the whole of the Groups assets.
As a result, Mr Ramaphosa has a very significant, but indirect, personal interest in Lonmins business.
There were no changes in the serving Directors interests from 30 September 2012 to the date of this report.
The Executive Directors potential shareholdings subject to deferral or performance conditions are set out on page 97.
No Non-executive Director has any share options or participates in any share schemes.
The table illustrates the short-term effect that Directors shareholdings, when expressed as a percentage of their fixed remuneration, vary in line with the Companys share price over the financial year, but also demonstrates the fluctuations in personal value held at risk: the comparison against figures for FY2011 shows that the value of these shareholdings were mostly at or above target prior to this occurring.
Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Mr Farmers contract is dated 20 October 2008.
His entitlement to remuneration is summarised above.
His employment is terminable by 364 days written notice given by either the Company or Mr Farmer.
The company may opt to pay in lieu of any unworked notice period, with only base salary and contractual benefits payable.
Otherwise Mr Farmer has no contractual entitlement to compensation in the event of termination.
In keeping with market practice certain circumstances entitle the Company to summarily dismiss Mr Farmer, for example in circumstances of gross misconduct, negligence, default or disqualification by law.
Mr Scott has two separate employment contracts, one with Lonmin Plc and one with Western Platinum Limited, one of the Companys principal South African operating subsidiaries.
His aggregate entitlement to remuneration under these contracts is summarised above, but each contract reflects Mr Scotts specific role and responsibilities with the applicable entity and constitutes a legally distinct and independent employment relationship.
The effective date for both contracts is 1 October 2011, and both are dated 29 October 2012.
Both are terminable by 12 months written notice by the Company, or 6 months written notice by Mr Scott.
The Company has the right to reduce any such payments at its reasonable discretion in accordance with Mr Scotts duty to mitigate his loss.
Otherwise Mr Scott has no contractual entitlement to compensation in the event of termination.
In keeping with market practice certain circumstances entitle the Company to summarily dismiss Mr Scott, for example gross misconduct, negligence, default or disqualification by law.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 100] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2012 REMUNERATION IN FY2012 CONTINUED The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment from the Company: Non-executive Directors Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Term 1 Len Konar 11 March 2010 17 March 2010 Until AGM 2014 1 Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 4 June 2009 Until AGM 2013 David Munro 10 August 2007 10 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election Roger Phillimore 11 September 1997 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2013 subject to annual re-election 1 Cyril Ramaphosa 13 July 2010 18 October 2010 Until AGM 2014 Mahomed Seedat 1 January 2011 27 January 2011 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election Karen fide Segundo 29 April 2005 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election Jim Sutcliffe 10 August 2007 11 October 2012 Until AGM 2014 subject to annual re-election 1 These appointment letters will be updated upon expiry in the light of the Companys policy re: annual re-election.
The Non-executive Directors are entitled to annual fees as set out on page 92, which are paid monthly in arrears.
No compensation is payable to the Non-executive Directors for loss of office.
In addition, Mr Seedat has a consultancy agreement dated 17 December 2010, and effective from 1 January 2011, under which he provides ad hoc consultancy services to the Company.
His remuneration in this role was initially at a rate of R 11,700 per day with a minimum of R 35,100 per month equating to three days service, together with reasonable costs incurred by him accommodation, travel and out-of-pocket expenses.
His daily rate was increased to R 25,000 per day effective from 15 August 2012 to reflect the additional duties which he assumed in support of the Executive Committee in the light of the Events at Marikana.
The agreement can be terminated by 90 days written notice by either party, with no compensation payable.
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report was approved by the Board on 8 November 2012.
For and on behalf of the Board Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee APPENDIX Historic long-term incentive arrangements Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP In 2008, prior to the introduction of ASAP, Executives were eligible to participate in the DABP, making a voluntary investment of between zero and 100% of their after tax bonus.
These funds were used to make market purchases of Lonmin shares to be held in the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust and released on the third anniversary of purchase subject to continued service.
The executive also received a Matched Award which, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, could enable up to 1:1 matching of the shares bought, on an after tax basis.
The performance conditions used in 2008 were the same as those used for the LTIP awarded on 7 January 2009 see page 95.
In 2009 and 2010, participants in the plan were obliged to invest between one-third and 100% at their discretion of their after tax bonus in the DABP, on the same terms, but with no Matched Awards made.
The DABP has now been superseded by the ASAP and the Company does not currently envisage granting any DABP Matched Awards in the future.
Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an option scheme is contained within the rules of the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions.
Details of these conditions for the Companys various tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows: Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty-six month period.
Options granted in or after 2002: TSR must exceed the total return of the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to the ESOS options have been fulfilled and all these options are exercisable.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information 04 Financial Statements 102 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc 103 Responsibility Statement of the Directors in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts 104 Consolidated Income Statement 104 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 105 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 106 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Notes to the Accounts 144 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet 145 Notes to the Company Accounts
