90 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements When a foreign subsidiary is disposed, the cumulative exchange 1.
Basis of preparation differences relating to the retranslation of the net investment in the Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock foreign subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in the gain or loss on disposal.
This applies only to exchange differences England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
Its registered recorded in equity after 1 January 2004.
Exchange differences arising office is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth prior to 1 January 2004 remain in equity on disposal as permitted by International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
IFRS 1 First time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high Transactions between, and balances with, Group companies are performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence eliminated together with unrealised gains on inter-group transactions.
and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the asset transferred is test and automotive.
The accounting policies of acquired businesses are changed where necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The following items in respect of the acquisition and disposal of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act subsidiaries are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and Group see note 10 : under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Any amounts by which the fair value of net assets of an acquired certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative subsidiary exceed the cost of acquisition: instruments at fair value.
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition and integration of a subsidiary: 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Any gain or loss arising from the disposal of a subsidiary: and The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the Adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
respect of the acquisition of a subsidiary or receivable in respect of These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented the disposal of a subsidiary.
Foreign currencies Basis of consolidation Functional and presentational currency The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is an entity over sterling.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the which the Group has control.
The Group has control over an entity Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency of the where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
from its involvement with the entity, and it has the power over the entity Transactions and balances to affect those returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are fully Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at exchange rates consolidated from the date on which control transfers to the Group.
prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and The results of subsidiaries disposed are fully consolidated up to the liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at exchange date on which control transfers from the Group.
rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration provided, retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the including the fair value of any contingent consideration, as measured at income statement except where they relate to qualifying cash flow the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent hedges or net investment hedges in which case exchange differences consideration are recorded in the income statement.
Identifiable are recognised in hedging and translation reserves within other assets and liabilities of an acquired business meeting the conditions comprehensive income.
for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at fair value at the date of Foreign subsidiaries acquisition.
To the extent the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average exchange value of net assets acquired, the difference is recorded as goodwill.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are the extent the fair value of net assets acquired exceeds the cost of an translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
acquisition, the difference is recorded immediately in the income Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the results and statement.
Costs directly attributable to an acquisition are recognised opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries are recognised as a separate in the income statement as incurred.
component of equity in hedging and translation reserves.
Exchange When a subsidiary is acquired, the fair value of its identifiable assets differences on borrowings designated as net investment hedges of and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
All foreign subsidiaries are also recognised in hedging and translation fair value adjustments are recorded with effect from the date of reserves.
acquisition and consequently may result in the restatement of Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of previously reported financial results.
a foreign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities of the When a subsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair subsidiary and are retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at the value of consideration received or receivable and the value at which balance sheet date.
net assets of the subsidiary were recorded, immediately prior to disposal, is recognised in the income statement.
Any contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at the date of disposal in determining the gain or loss to be recognised.
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes in fair value recorded in the income statement.
indd 90 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 91 Revenue from services 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
For cost-plus fixed fee contracts, revenue is recognised Segment reporting equal to the costs incurred plus an appropriate proportion of the fee Operating segments are those segments for which results are agreed with the customer.
For other contracts, the stage of completion reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved, assess performance and make decisions about resources to be number of aircraft flying hours or number of aircraft landings.
The CODM has been identified as the Board see page 46 of Revenue from funded research and development the Corporate governance report.
The Group has determined that its Revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of the segments are Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control contract.
The stage of completion is typically measured by reference Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems to contractual milestones achieved.
and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
On 7 May 2014, the Group announced that the divisional structure had been realigned to reflect Exceptional operating items the following changes: Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which are The fire protection business has moved from Meggitt Equipment considered non-recurring and which are excluded from the underlying Group to Meggitt Control Systems: and profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the The power businesses have moved from Meggitt Equipment Group underlying performance of the Group see note 10 are classified as to Meggitt Sensing Systems.
They include, for instance, gains or losses made on the disposal or closure of a business, adjustments to the fair Prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect this new value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired divisional structure.
business or receivable in respect of a disposed business, costs directly The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying attributable to the acquisition and integration of a business, and operating profit as defined in note 10.
A segmental analysis of significant site consolidation and other restructuring costs.
underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in the notes to the Additionally in 2013, given its significance and non-recurring nature, financial statements.
the raw material supply issue described in note 11 was treated as an exceptional operating item.
Exceptional operating items are included Segmental information on assets is provided in the notes to the within the appropriate consolidated income statement category but are financial statements in respect of trading assets, which are defined to highlighted separately in the notes to the financial statements.
exclude from total assets amounts which the CODM does not review at a segmental level.
Excluded assets comprise centrally managed Intangible assets trading assets, goodwill, other intangible assets excluding software assets, derivative financial instruments, deferred tax assets, current Goodwill tax recoverable and cash and cash equivalents.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities No segmental information on liabilities is provided in the notes to the and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is tested annually for financial statements as no such measure is reviewed by the CODM.
impairment, and also whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is carried Revenue recognition at cost less amortisation charged prior to 1 January 2004 less Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or accumulated impairment losses.
In the event the subsidiary to which receivable in respect of goods and services provided in the normal goodwill relates is disposed, its attributable goodwill is included in the course of business to external customers, net of trade discounts, determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
returns and sales related taxes.
Research and development Sale of goods Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the income Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred on projects where ownership have transferred to the customer, managerial involvement the related expenditure is separately identifiable, measurable and and control of the goods is not retained by the Group, the revenue and management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and commercial costs associated with the sale can be measured reliably and the viability of the project and that the asset will generate future economic collection of related receivables is probable.
In the majority of benefit based on all relevant available information are recognised as instances these conditions are met when delivery to the customer an intangible asset.
Capitalised development costs are carried at cost takes place.
In a minority of instances bill and hold arrangements less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is exist whereby revenue is recorded prior to delivery but only when the charged over the periods expected to benefit, commencing with the customer has accepted title to the goods, the goods are separately launch of the product.
During the year, the period over which identifiable and available for delivery on terms agreed with the amortisation is charged was reassessed and, as a result, the customer and normal credit terms apply.
maximum life extended from 10 years to 15 years.
The impact of this change, which has been applied prospectively, was to reduce the Contract accounting revenue charge to the income statement in 2014 by approximately 7.0 million.
The Group is usually able to reliably estimate the outcome of a contract Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are at inception and accordingly recognises revenue and cost of sales by expensed as incurred.
reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Revenue is typically measured by applying to total contract revenue, the proportion costs incurred for work performed in the period bear to total estimated contract costs.
Where it is not possible to reliably estimate the outcome of a contract, revenue is recognised equal to costs incurred, provided recovery of such costs is probable.
If total contract costs are forecast to exceed total contract revenue then the expected loss is recorded immediately in the income statement.
indd 91 04 03 2015 17:11 92 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Programme participation costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or production Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to Original of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets Equipment Manufacturers in connection with their selection of the until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial has obtained principal supplier status.
These incentives comprise cash period of time to get ready for their intended use, which would generally payments and or the supply of initial manufactured parts on a free of be at least 12 months.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the charge or deeply discounted basis.
Programme participation costs are income statement as incurred.
recognised as an intangible asset and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
For manufactured parts supplied Taxation on a free of charge or deeply discounted basis, cost represents the cost Tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated using of manufacture transferred from inventory less the value of any tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Amortisation is charged over the periods expected to benefit from receiving the status of principal Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary supplier, through the sale of replacement parts, typically up to differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 15 years.
corresponding book values as recorded in the Groups financial statements.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of foreign Other intangible assets subsidiaries, except where the Group can control the remittance and it a Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination is probable that the earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable For acquisitions, the Group recognises intangible assets separately future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is from goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual or probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible other legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, which is tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Intangible assets are subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Where Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, intangible assets have finite lives, their cost is amortised on a other comprehensive income or directly in equity depending on where straight-line basis over those lives.
The nature of intangible assets the item to which they relate has been recognised.
recognised and their estimated useful lives are as follows: Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Customer relationships.............................. Up to 25 years Technology.................................................. Up to 25 years Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever events Trade names and trademarks.................... Up to 25 years or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be Order backlogs............................................ Over period of backlog recoverable.
To the extent the carrying value exceeds the recoverable typically up to 3 years amount, the difference is recorded as an expense in the income statement.
The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of a business higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest level the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are Group see note 10. largely independent of cash inflows from other assets or groups of b Other purchased intangible assets assets.
At each balance sheet date, previously recorded impairment Purchased licences, trademarks, patents and software are carried at losses, other than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
no longer required reversed with a corresponding credit to the Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over their estimated income statement.
useful economic life, typically over periods up to 10 years.
Inventories Property, plant and equipment Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated production overheads, based on normal operating capacity, and is depreciation and impairment losses, except for land which is recorded determined using the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: When a subsidiary is acquired, finished goods are valued at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and a Freehold buildings...................................... Up to 50 years reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress is Leasehold property..................................... Over period of lease also valued at fair value at acquisition, which is typically estimated Plant and machinery................................... 3 to 10 years selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable Furnaces...................................................... Up to 20 years profit allowance for work not yet completed.
When this inventory is Fixtures and fittings.................................... 3 to 10 years subsequently disposed post acquisition, the fair value is charged to the Motor vehicles.............................................. 4 to 5 years income statement.
The difference between the fair value of the Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if inventory disposed and its actual cost of manufacture is excluded from appropriate.
the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
When property, plant and equipment is disposed, the difference between sale proceeds, net of related costs, and the carrying value of Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items the asset is recognised in the income statement.
where appropriate and for unrealised profits on items of inter-group manufacture.
indd 92 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 93 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provision is made for environmental liabilities, onerous contracts, Trade receivables product warranty claims and other liabilities when the Group has a Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and present obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the An impairment is recognised in the income statement, when there is obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are objective evidence the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due discounted to present value where the impact is significant, using a according to the original terms of the receivables.
The discount rate used is based on current market recorded is the difference between the carrying value of the receivable assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks and its estimated future cash flows discounted where appropriate.
specific to the obligation which have not been reflected in the undiscounted provision.
The impact of the unwinding of discounting Cash and cash equivalents is recognised in the income statement within net finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held at Retirement benefit schemes call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current liabilities, within bank and other borrowings, except where the Group participates For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of providing in offset arrangements with certain banks whereby cash and overdraft other post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare, are charged to amounts are offset against each other.
the income statement in accordance with the advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Trade payables Past service credits and costs are recognised immediately in the Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently income statement.
Trade payables are not interest bearing.
Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, the difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and the Leases present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations measured at Leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit capitalised at commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the leased asset and present value of the minimum lease payments.
determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance currency in which the benefits will be paid and with terms to maturity outstanding.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance comparable with the terms of the related defined benefit obligations.
charges, are included in liabilities.
Assets acquired under finance Where the Group has a statutory or contractual minimum funding leases are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the requirement to make contributions to a scheme in respect of past useful life of the asset or the lease term.
service and any such contributions are not available to the Group once paid either as a reduction in future contributions or as a refund during Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled, to ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating which the Group has an irrevocable right, an additional liability for leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives such amounts is recognised.
received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they arise in other comprehensive income.
Dividends For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are approved income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no further by the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities when they obligations once the contributions have been paid.
are approved by the shareholders.
Share-based compensation Borrowings The Group operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being proceeds share-based compensation schemes.
received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value of an award is measured at Borrowings are generally subsequently measured at amortised cost the date of grant and reflects any market-based vesting conditions.
with any transaction costs amortised to the income statement over the Non market-based vesting conditions are excluded from the fair value period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
At the date of grant, the Group estimates the number of borrowings however are designated as fair value through profit and awards expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting loss at inception, if the Group has interest rate derivatives in place conditions and the fair value of this estimated number of awards is which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line floating rate borrowings.
Such borrowings are measured at fair value basis over the period for which services are received.
At each balance at each balance sheet date with any movement in fair value recorded in sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of awards the income statement within net operating costs.
Movements in fair expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting conditions value are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the and adjusts the amount recognised cumulatively in the income Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the statement to reflect the revised estimate.
When awards are exercised Group see note 10. and the Company issues new shares, the proceeds received, net of any Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an nominal value and share premium.
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 For cash-settled schemes, the total amount recognised is based on the months after the balance sheet date.
fair value of the liability incurred.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement for the period.
indd 93 04 03 2015 17:11 94 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Derivatives not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income Derivative financial instruments and hedging statement.
The Group utilises a large number of foreign currency The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure forward contracts to mitigate against currency fluctuations.
to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional risk.
Derivative The Group has determined the additional costs of meeting the financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date extensive documentation requirements in order to apply hedge the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date using values Measurement are not merited.
Gains and losses arising from determined indirectly from quoted prices that are observable for the measuring these contracts at fair value are excluded from the asset or liability.
underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The method by which any gain or loss arising from remeasurement is recognised depends on whether the instrument is designated as Share capital a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item hedged.
The Group recognises an instrument as a hedging instrument by Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly documenting, at inception of the instrument, the relationship between attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds the instrument and the hedged item and the objectives and strategy for recorded in equity.
To be designated as a hedging Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an instrument, an instrument must also be assessed, at inception and on independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
an ongoing basis, to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental directly values or cash flows of hedged items.
attributable costs, is recorded as a deduction from retained earnings.
To the extent the maturity of the financial instrument is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date, the fair value is reported as a Share buyback non-current asset or non-current liability.
All other derivative financial On 5 November 2014, the Group announced the intention to commence instruments are reported as current assets or current liabilities.
The total consideration payable for Fair value hedges shares purchased is deducted from retained earnings.
The shares Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are when purchased are cancelled and the nominal value of the cancelled designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recognised in the shares is transferred from share capital to a separate capital income statement within net operating costs together with changes in redemption reserve.
Where the Group has entered into an irrevocable fair value of the hedged item.
Any difference between the movement in non-discretionary contract to purchase for cancellation shares on its fair value of the derivatives and the hedged item is excluded from the behalf during a close period, the obligation to purchase shares is underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure recognised in full at the inception of the contract, even when the the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The Group obligation is conditional on the share price.
The obligation is currently only applies fair value hedge accounting to the hedging of remeasured at each balance sheet date with changes recognised in the fixed interest rate risk on borrowings.
Cash flow hedges Adoption of new and revised accounting standards Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are During the year, no new accounting standards became effective which initially recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair had a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the statements.
income statement within net operating costs.
Recent accounting developments To the extent changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income, they are recycled to the income statement in A number of new standards and amendments and revisions to existing the periods in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups The Group currently only applies cash flow hedge accounting to the future accounting periods.
They have not been adopted early in these hedging of floating interest rate risk on borrowings.
None of these are expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they If the forecast transaction to which the cash flow hedge relates is are adopted except as disclosed below: no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
The main change is expected to statement immediately.
If the hedging instrument is sold, expires or no relate to the way in which movements in the fair value of the Groups longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or fixed rate borrowings, attributable to changes in the Groups own loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is credit risk, are accounted for.
The Group is yet to assess the full transferred to the income statement when the forecast transaction is impact of IFRS 9 which becomes effective for accounting periods recognised in the income statement.
beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
This standard is subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments of foreign subsidiaries are accounted for in IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in fair value of the effective establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount and timing of portion of any hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income.
revenue arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion are recognised Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 15 which becomes immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January Cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in other 2017.
This standard is subject to endorsement by the European comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement if the Union.
foreign subsidiary to which they relate is disposed.
indd 94 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 95 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to a number of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by a centralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities see also pages 35 to 37 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposure arises with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposure based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge up to five years ahead.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 30.
The Group does not currently hedge exposure arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to hedge its net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk, whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to maintain at least 25% of its net debt at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through interest rate derivatives which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings and floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 30. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across a large number of customers across the world.
In addition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial instruments which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolt-on acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2014 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 350.1 1.5 2.7 1.7 356.0 Bank and other borrowings 49.5 0.1 343.9 256.8 650.3 Interest payments on borrowings 20.5 19.0 45.2 17.3 102.0 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 1.1 1.0 3.0 12.4 17.5 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 9.1 9.0 22.8 9.8 50.7 Outflows 0.8 0.8 1.2 2.8 Total 412.9 13.4 373.2 278.4 1,077.9 2013 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 316.6 1.2 2.2 1.8 321.8 Bank and other borrowings 4.1 42.4 370.4 241.9 658.8 Interest payments on borrowings 20.6 19.1 48.2 28.6 116.5 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 3.4 1.0 2.8 12.7 19.9 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 8.2 8.5 23.5 15.8 56.0 Outflows 0.7 0.7 1.9 3.3 Total 337.2 55.9 402.0 269.2 1,064.3 Excludes social security and other taxes of 8.4 million 2013: 12.5 million see note 25.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at year end.
indd 95 04 03 2015 17:11 96 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposure in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.
2014 2013 Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD GBP exchange rate - 10% 28.3 44.1 25.2 36.1 US yield curve - 1% 4.6 3.3 4.6 4.1 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 53.2 million 2013: 46.3 million in respect of US dollar net debt, offset by 9.1 million 2013: 10.2 million in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar debt is designated as a net investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
The impact of a 1% movement in the US yield curve includes the effect on the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts as well as other financial assets and liabilities.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net asset values.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long-term.
The Groups current post-tax average cost of capital is approximately 8% 2013: 8% and its capital structure at 31 December is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Net debt see note 40 575.5 564.6 Total equity 2,140.8 2,076.4 Debt equity % 26.9% 27.2% The Board believes that in maintaining an efficient balance sheet, a net debt EBITDA ratio of between 1.5x and 2.5x is appropriate, whilst retaining the flexibility to move outside the range if appropriate.
Further details on the share buyback programme announced as part of the Groups strategy for delivering net debt EBITDA in this range can be found on page 35 of the Chief Financial Officers review, which also includes details on how the Group has complied with the two principle financial covenant requirements contained in its committed credit facilities for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these financial statements are as described below.
Further consideration of these critical estimates and judgements can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 52.
Goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows of the CGUs.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination On the acquisition of a business, it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, provided they meet the criteria to be recognised.
The fair values of these assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins, cash flows and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
The Group takes advice from third parties in determining fair values and the estimated useful lives of intangible assets arising on significant acquisitions.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment testing at least annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate see note 20 for further details.
indd 96 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 97 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Development costs The majority of capitalised development costs relate to technology developed for aerospace programmes.
In such cases, costs are typically not capitalised until a contract to develop the technology is awarded by a customer as, prior to this date, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate the point at which research activities conclude and development activities commence.
Absent a contract, the Group also does not believe there is generally sufficient certainty over the future economic benefits that will be generated from the technology, to allow capitalisation of those costs.
Post contract award, the Group will capitalise development costs provided it retains the intellectual property in the technology throughout the life of the aircraft or engine and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
In making a judgement as to whether economic benefits will arise, the Group will make estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group has a sole-source position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture and costs to complete the development activity.
Capitalised development costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
Estimates of remaining useful lives of assets are also reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate.
At 31 December 2014, the programme with the largest capitalised development balance has a net book value of 44.5 million.
Fleet volumes would need to reduce by approximately 60% from management estimates, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, before any impairment would need to be recognised.
Programme participation costs Approximately 80% of capitalised programme participation costs relate to free of charge or deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC, with the balance relating to cash payments.
All amounts relate to aerospace programmes.
FOC costs are typically incurred just prior to individual aircraft entering service and only where the Group is satisfied the incremental aftermarket revenues that will be generated over the life of the part are sufficient, will amounts be capitalised.
In making this judgement, the Group makes estimates of aircraft utilisation rates and fleet lives and operator service routines.
The capitalisation of cash payments is subject to similar judgements to those described in development costs above.
Capitalised programme participation costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
At 31 December 2014, the programme with the largest capitalised programme participation balance has a net book value of 29.0 million.
No reasonably foreseeable change in assumptions would cause an impairment to be recognised.
Environmental matters The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of certain sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the determination of the timing and estimation of the costs the Group may incur in respect of such claims and appropriate provisions are made.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of historical environmental events on the Group.
To the extent estimates in respect of claims change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions and, if the costs are determined to be covered by insurance, to the amounts recoverable from insurers.
However, actual losses incurred could differ from the original estimates see note 31 for further details.
Onerous contracts The Group makes provision for any expected losses arising from onerous contracts which require estimates to be made of future contract revenues, margins, potential claims from third parties and cash flows.
These estimates are dependent on a number of factors including anticipated sales volumes, future pricing, production costs and the outcome of negotiations with third parties.
To the extent these estimates change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions.
Legal, regulatory and other similar matters The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses.
A determination of any provisions required and any impairment of related receivables for these matters is based on a careful analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel.
indd 97 04 03 2015 17:11 98 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
During 2014, a number of new mortality tables were published in the US.
Advice was taken from the Groups third party US actuary as to the most appropriate tables to use to reflect current and future improvements in life expectancy for each of the Groups US schemes.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided in note 33.
Contract accounting revenue In determining amounts to be recognised as revenue under long-term contracts, the Group makes an assessment of the stage of completion of each contract and its expected profit at completion based on an estimate of total contract costs.
Contract cost estimates are based on an internal evaluation taking into account the specific nature of the contract, including its level of technical risk, together with the historical accuracy of previous contract estimates.
Estimates are reviewed and updated regularly throughout the life of the contract, which typically will span more than one accounting period.
The total amount of revenue recognised under long-term contracts in the year is disclosed in note 5.
Income taxes In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
If the actual outcome of events differed by 10% from the estimates made at 31 December 2014, the impact on the tax charge would be approximately 5.0 million.
Judgements also need to be made as to the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset against one another see note 32 for further details.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Sale of goods 1,351.7 1,428.8 Contract accounting revenue 98.3 110.1 Revenue from services 75.0 73.9 Revenue from funded research and development 28.7 24.5 Total 1,553.7 1,637.3 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group manages its businesses under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
On 7 May 2014, the Group announced that the divisional structure had been realigned to reflect the following changes: The fire protection business has moved from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Control Systems: and The power businesses have moved from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Sensing Systems.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect this new divisional structure.
Details of the Groups divisions can be found on pages 13 to 17 of the Strategic report.
indd 98 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 99 6.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 31 December 2014 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
A detailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 327.1 349.7 163.2 402.4 320.1 1,562.5 Inter-segment revenue 0.1 1.0 0.9 4.2 2.6 8.8 Revenue from external customers 327.0 348.7 162.3 398.2 317.5 1,553.7 Underlying operating profit see note 10 127.5 91.8 20.2 58.4 48.1 346.0 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 109.8 Operating profit see note 10 236.2 Finance income see note 12 1.2 Finance costs see note 13 28.5 Net finance costs 27.3 Profit before tax 208.9 Tax see note 14 31.9 Profit for the year 177.0 Exceptional operating items see note 11 0.5 3.0 0.3 6.9 1.8 12.5 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 70.9 12.2 6.4 15.0 8.1 112.6 Impairment loss see note 19 4.0 3.1 0.9 8.0 Depreciation see note 21 6.7 6.1 3.3 9.0 6.1 31.2 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 44.5 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Of the total depreciation in the year, 31.1 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.2% of revenue 96.3 million.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs see note 19 30.1 16.5 4.1 21.7 5.3 77.7 Programme participation costs see note 19 40.4 5.6 46.0 Other purchased intangible assets 0.3 1.3 0.5 1.1 1.0 4.2 Property, plant and equipment 6.1 4.5 5.9 9.1 7.7 33.3 Total 76.9 27.9 10.5 31.9 14.0 161.2 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
indd 99 04 03 2015 17:11 100 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued As at 31 December 2014 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 568.3 Meggitt Control Systems 295.0 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 94.0 Meggitt Sensing Systems 325.2 Meggitt Equipment Group 200.6 Total segmental trading assets 1,483.1 Centrally managed trading assets 181.4 Goodwill see note 18 1,541.1 Other intangible assets 597.4 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 29.6 Deferred tax assets see note 32 0.9 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 1.1 Current tax recoverable 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 105.5 Total assets 3,943.4 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Year ended 31 December 2013 Restated The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 330.4 365.2 182.9 399.5 365.2 1,643.2 Inter-segment revenue 0.9 1.9 2.0 1.1 5.9 Revenue from external customers 330.4 364.3 181.0 397.5 364.1 1,637.3 Underlying operating profit see note 10 122.4 107.7 30.2 69.9 67.0 397.2 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 96.9 Operating profit see note 10 300.3 Finance income see note 12 0.3 Finance costs see note 13 31.2 Net finance costs 30.9 Profit before tax 269.4 Tax see note 14 37.1 Profit for the year 232.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 1.5 8.6 8.9 9.4 28.4 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 74.5 13.4 6.7 16.3 12.3 123.2 Impairment loss see note 19 3.2 3.2 Depreciation see note 21 8.1 4.8 3.2 9.4 6.7 32.2 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 47.5 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Of the total depreciation in the year, 31.4 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 108.3 million.
indd 100 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 101 6.
Segmental analysis continued Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs see note 19 24.8 16.8 2.5 21.4 4.7 70.2 Programme participation costs see note 19 31.5 3.2 1.0 35.7 Other purchased intangible assets 0.4 5.1 0.8 2.3 0.9 9.5 Property, plant and equipment 4.0 14.4 2.7 18.6 10.2 49.9 Total 60.7 39.5 6.0 43.3 15.8 165.3 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
As at 31 December 2013 Restated Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 502.2 Meggitt Control Systems 241.9 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 87.8 Meggitt Sensing Systems 314.5 Meggitt Equipment Group 194.9 Total segmental trading assets 1,341.3 Centrally managed trading assets 176.5 Goodwill see note 18 1,457.1 Other intangible assets 634.1 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 35.5 Deferred tax assets see note 32 9.1 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 11.2 Current tax recoverable 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 116.1 Total assets 3,783.7 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2014 2013 m m Revenue UK 152.4 165.8 Rest of Europe 338.1 365.1 United States of America 771.1 811.7 Rest of World 292.1 294.7 Total 1,553.7 1,637.3 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
2014 2013 m m Non-current assets UK 602.0 714.4 Rest of Europe 203.6 215.6 United States of America 2,235.4 1,953.0 Rest of World 9.5 8.0 Total 3,050.5 2,891.0 Segmental non-current assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude trade and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax.
indd 101 04 03 2015 17:11 102 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Auditors remuneration Payable to  LLP and its associates: 2014 2013 m m For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 0.7 0.8 For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the prior year 0.1 For the audit of the accounts of any subsidiary of the Company in respect of the current year 0.7 0.6 For audit related assurance services 0.1 Total 1.4 1.6 8.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2014 2013 m m Raw materials and consumables used 423.2 450.6 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 13.4 5.9 Employee costs see note 9 541.8 566.1 Research and development costs 70.6 64.7 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 8.8 13.7 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 24.9 25.4 Amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 10.8 9.8 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 68.1 74.3 Impairment loss on capitalised development costs see note 19 8.0 3.2 Depreciation see note 21 31.2 32.2 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.1 Exceptional operating items see note 11 12.5 28.4 Financial instruments see note 10 29.2 6.1 Net foreign exchange loss 0.6 2.1 Operating lease rentals 15.3 14.3 Other operating income 3.1 4.6 Total research and development expenditure in the year was 148.3 million 2013: 134.9 million of which 28.9 million 2013: 24.5 million was charged to cost of sales, 41.7 million 2013: 40.2 million was charged to net operating costs and 77.7 million 2013: 70.2 million was capitalised as development costs see note 19.
Employee information 2014 2013 m m Employee costs including executive directors: Wages and salaries 434.7 441.0 Social security costs 78.8 79.1 Retirement benefit costs see note 33 26.6 34.1 Share-based payment expense see note 35 1.7 11.9 Total 541.8 566.1 Details of directors remuneration is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 75, which forms part of these financial statements.
2014 2013 Restated Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors: Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,228 1,191 Meggitt Control Systems 1,811 1,804 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 1,876 1,979 Meggitt Sensing Systems 3,138 3,078 Meggitt Equipment Group 1,975 2,402 Corporate including shared services and centres of excellence 657 581 Total 10,685 11,035 Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the new divisional structure see note 6.
indd 102 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 103 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
It excludes certain items as described below: 2014 2013 Note m m Operating profit 236.2 300.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 12.5 28.4 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations a 68.1 74.3 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations 0.3 Financial instruments b 29.2 6.1 Adjustments to operating profit 109.8 96.9 Underlying operating profit 346.0 397.2 Profit before tax 208.9 269.4 Adjustments to operating profit per above 109.8 96.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 10.0 11.5 Adjustments to profit before tax 119.8 108.4 Underlying profit before tax 328.7 377.8 Profit for the year 177.0 232.3 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 119.8 108.4 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 36.6 43.8 Adjustments to profit for the year 83.2 64.6 Underlying profit for the year 260.2 296.9 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 5.5 million 2013: 28.8 million relating to exceptional operating items and Nil 2013: 0.3 million relating to the disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 104.3 million 2013: 67.8 million included within net operating costs.
The Group excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2014 2013 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 78.9 84.1 Less amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 10.8 9.8 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 68.1 74.3 b.
Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recorded if hedge accounting had been applied.
Where interest rate derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in the fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
Where interest rate derivatives do qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference between the movement in the fair value of derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
2014 2013 m m Movement in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 31.1 12.0 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 1.9 0.8 Movement in the fair value of interest rate derivatives 4.2 18.6 Movement in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings 4.2 13.5 Financial instruments loss gain 29.2 6.1 93987 p90-132.
indd 103 04 03 2015 17:11 104 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Exceptional operating items Income statement Cash expenditure 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m m m Site consolidations a 7.5 8.2 7.5 6.4 Loss gain on disposal or closure of businesses b 2.9 9.0 0.5 0.5 Raw material supply issue c 20.0 4.7 3.1 Costs related to acquisition and integration of businesses 2.1 7.9 4.4 5.0 Other 1.3 1.2 Exceptional operating items 12.5 28.4 17.1 16.2 a.
This principally relates to the consolidation of the Groups two North American sensor businesses onto a single new site in California, USA and the movement of production to the Groups low cost manufacturing locations.
The charge in 2014 relates to the closure of a business in the US.
In the prior year, the Group disposed of the shares of Meggitt Addison, Inc, realising a profit of 14.9 million and the shares of the Sunbank Family of Companies LLC, realising a loss of 5.9 million.
Cash expenditure relates to business disposal expenses.
Proceeds from the disposal of businesses are reported separately as part of cash outflow from investing activities.
c. In 2013, the Group announced it had identified an issue relating to the supply from a vendor of non-conforming raw material in one of our businesses.
A provision of 20.0 million was made for the estimated cost of this issue, including where necessary the replacement of the relevant parts over the next few years.
No amounts were recorded in the income statement in respect of this issue in 2014.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items was 4.1 million 2013: 10.7 million.
Finance income 2014 2013 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of interest on other receivables 0.9 Other finance income 0.2 0.2 Finance income 1.2 0.3 13.
Finance costs 2014 2013 m m Interest on bank borrowings 2.7 3.5 Interest on senior notes 12.7 15.4 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.9 1.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 31 1.1 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 10.0 11.5 Amortisation of debt issue costs 3.1 1.2 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see note 19 2.0 1.5 Finance costs 28.5 31.2 An additional charge of 1.8 million was recorded in 2014, following the early refinancing of the Groups committed syndicated bank facilities.
indd 104 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 105 14.
Tax 2014 2013 m m Current tax current year 20.4 38.0 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 6.5 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 17.2 12.7 Deferred tax effects of changes in tax rates 5.4 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 5.9 1.7 Total taxation 31.9 37.1 The Finance Act 2013, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
As these changes were substantively enacted during 2013, they were reflected in the tax charge for that year.
Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation of the notional tax charge based on average standard rates of tax weighted in proportion to accounting profits to the actual tax charge is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax at UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 44.9 62.6 Effects of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 12.5 14.1 Permanent differences 16.0 20.1 Temporary differences 0.6 1.5 Changes in statutory tax rates 5.4 Tax credits and incentives 3.2 4.4 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 6.5 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 5.9 1.7 Total taxation 31.9 37.1 The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that a one percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2014 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 2.1 million.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2014 2013 Before Tax credit After Before Tax credit After tax charge tax tax charge tax m m m m m m Current tax currency translation movements 77.0 0.3 76.7 31.9 0.2 31.7 Deferred tax currency translation movements 0.4 0.4 5.3 0.2 5.1 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 97.7 24.2 73.5 46.8 21.6 25.2 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 0.8 0.1 0.7 1.9 0.3 1.6 Other comprehensive income 21.1 24.0 2.9 11.5 21.5 10.0 Current tax 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax 24.3 21.7 Total 24.0 21.5 Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2014 2014 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payment expense 1.2 5.3 Deferred tax charge credit relating to share-based payment expense 1.8 3.3 Total 0.6 8.6 93987 p90-132.
indd 105 04 03 2015 17:11 106 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares used excludes any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 36.
The weighted average number of own shares excluded was 0.1 million shares 2013: Nil.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that all potentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 177.0 804.1 22.0 232.3 791.1 29.4 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 11.0 0.3 13.1 0.5 Diluted EPS 177.0 815.1 21.7 232.3 804.2 28.9 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares as is used in the calculation of basic EPS.
It is reconciled to basic EPS below: 2014 2013 Pence Pence Basic EPS 22.0 29.4 Adjust for effects of: Exceptional operating items 1.1 2.2 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 5.5 5.6 Financial instruments 2.9 0.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 0.9 1.0 Underlying basic EPS 32.4 37.5 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year was 31.9 pence 2013: 36.9 pence.
Dividends 2014 2013 m m In respect of earlier years 64.4 In respect of 2013: Interim of 3.95p per share 31.2 Final of 8.80p per share 70.2 In respect of 2014: Interim of 4.25p per share 34.2 Dividends paid 104.4 95.6 Less paid as scrip dividend see note 41 53.0 20.0 Dividends paid in cash 51.4 75.6 A final dividend in respect of 2014 of 9.50p per share 2013: 8.80p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 76.2 million 2013: 70.2 million is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statements as it is has not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
indd 106 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 107 17.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined for 2014 as members of the Board, the Executive Board and the Operations Board, is set out below.
Prior year comparatives have not been restated to reflect changes to the definition of key management personnel during the current year: 2014 2013 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 7.3 6.8 Retirement benefit expense 0.3 0.4 Share-based payment expense 0.6 3.2 Total 8.2 10.4 Interests of key management personnel, including executive directors, in share schemes operated by the Group at the balance sheet date are set out below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Average Number Average Number exercise outstanding exercise outstanding price price Pence m Pence m Share options 393.00 0.1 348.66 0.1 Share appreciation rights equity-settled 359.71 5.1 353.23 5.7 Equity participation plan shares 2.5 2.8 Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 1.5 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 75 which forms part of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2014 2013 m m Cost at 1 January 1,457.1 1,494.2 Exchange rate adjustments 64.1 19.6 Businesses acquired see note 42 19.9 9.0 Businesses disposed 26.5 Cost at 31 December 1,541.1 1,457.1 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is any indication of impairment.
No impairment charge was required in the year 2013: Nil and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil 2013: Nil.
The total amount of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of Precision Engine Controls Corporation see note 42 that are expected to be deductible for tax purposes will be assessed during 2015.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs which principally comprise its individual business operations.
Goodwill is initially allocated, in the year a business is acquired, to CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
Subsequent adjustments are made to this allocation to the extent operations to which goodwill relates are transferred between CGUs.
An analysis of goodwill by principal CGU is shown below: 2014 2013 m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 699.9 665.3 Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. 188.0 177.2 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL 137.7 129.6 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 81.9 82.9 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. 72.8 68.6 Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. 66.8 62.9 Other 294.0 270.6 Total 1,541.1 1,457.1 During 2014, the Group announced the divisional structure had been realigned and the power businesses have moved from Meggitt Equipment Group to Meggitt Sensing Systems see note 6.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the power businesses currently continue to be considered as individual CGUs, and are excluded from the MSS CGU shown above.
indd 107 04 03 2015 17:11 108 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill continued For each CGU, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in December 2014.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate appropriate for the relevant CGU.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are shown below: Sales volumes, selling prices and cost increases over the five years covered by managements detailed plans.
Sales volumes are based on industry forecasts and management estimates for the businesses in which each CGU operates including forecasts for OEM deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets, air traffic growth and military spending by the US DoD and other major governments.
Selling prices and cost increases are based on past experience and management expectations of future changes in the market.
Overall a cautious approach to volume levels, selling prices and cost increases has been taken given the continued global economic uncertainty.
The extent to which these assumptions affect each principal CGU with a significant level of goodwill are described below.
MABS, Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL and MSS are broadly spread across both civil aerospace and military platforms with Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. and MSS also operating in the energy sector.
MABS is a leading supplier of wheels, brakes and brake control systems, particularly for regional aircraft, business jets and military aircraft.
Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. designs and manufactures fluid control devices and systems for most aircraft types and has a higher content on large jets.
Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL designs and manufactures fire protection and control systems for large, regional, business and military aircraft.
MSS is a leading provider of high-performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high-value rotating machinery and other assets and, within the aerospace sector, has a higher content on large jets.
All four CGUs have significant OEM and aftermarket revenue derived from sole-source positions with the aftermarket, where platform lives can be up to thirty years for civil aircraft and longer for military, representing the greater proportion of revenue except for MSS which has a higher OEM content.
Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. and Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. both operate mainly in military markets.
The principal customer of Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. is the US DoD to whom Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. are a leading supplier of flexible fuel tanks.
Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. supplies integrated live and virtual training packages for armed forces and law enforcement agencies across the world.
In civil aerospace, capacity measured in available seat kilometres ASKs is forecast to grow in line with the long-term trend rate of 5% which, together with the Groups growing fleet and price increases, should drive an increase in aftermarket revenue of 8 to 9% per annum over the medium term.
The Groups continuing confidence in air passenger traffic growth is supported by the sustained high levels of order intake at Boeing and Airbus.
Large jet deliveries increased by 8% in 2014, and the Group expects good delivery growth over the next five years underpinned by continued strong order intake and a backlog at Boeing and Airbus which equates to over seven years of deliveries at the current production rate.
Deliveries of regional aircraft increased by 2% in 2014, with modest growth anticipated over the next five years, driven principally by demand for 70-90 seat aircraft, on which the Group has a strong shipset content.
Total business jet deliveries increased by 6% in 2014 but deliveries of super-midsize and long-range aircraft, where the Group benefits from particularly strong market positions, grew more strongly.
Further growth is anticipated in this market over the next five years, driven by increasing internationalisation of the customer base and the ongoing improvement in the US economy.
Military markets look to be entering a more benign phase, with lower rates of decline than have been seen in recent years and even some suggestion of growth in the all important US budget from 2016.
The threat of sequestration remains, although the likelihood, timing and impact are unknown at this stage.
However, the Group has key positions on future growth platforms and, in the absence of any clarity on if or where sequestration cuts will ultimately fall, continues to anticipate average compound organic military growth of around 2% per annum in the medium term.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans.
Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU operates, external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors, the extent to which a CGU has sole-source position on platforms where it is able to share in a continuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues, the maturity of the platforms supplied by the CGU and the technological content of the CGUs products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, a conservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the countries in which the CGU operates UK: 2.3% 2013: 2.4%, US: 2.4% 2013: 2.4%, the latter has been used.
Discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC was used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC was then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU.
The discount rates used were as follows: MABS 10.2% 2013: 10.3%, Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. 10.9% 2013: 11.0%, Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL 10.9% 2013: 10.8%, MSS 10.1% 2013: 9.7%, Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. 10.4% 2013: 10.7%, and Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. 9.8% 2013: 10.9%.
The discount rates used for Other CGUs ranged between 8.3% to 11.0% 2013: 9.3% to 10.9%.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out for each CGU to determine the extent to which its assumptions would need to change for the calculated recoverable amounts from value in use, to fall below the carrying value of goodwill of the CGU.
Management has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
The CGU with the least headroom in percentage terms is MSS followed by MABS.
Other goodwill of 294.0 million 2013: 270.6 million relates to approximately 10 individual CGUs, all of which have headroom in percentage terms greater than that of MABS and MSS.
To require an impairment in the Group financial statements, one of the following would be required: MABS MSS Reduction in estimates of cash flows more than 18% 14% Reduction of long-term growth rates more than 62% 100% Increase in the discount rate applied to future cash flows more than 14% 14% Headroom 313.6m 53.4m 93987 p90-132.
indd 108 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 109 19.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2013 Cost 276.0 326.9 Accumulated amortisation 54.5 123.3 Net book amount 221.5 203.6 Year ended 31 December 2013 Opening net book amount 221.5 203.6 Exchange rate adjustments 3.8 3.3 Additions Internal development costs 70.2 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 30.4 Cash payments 5.3 Disposals 2.0 Interest capitalised 1.5 Impairment loss 3.2 Amortisation 13.7 25.4 Net book amount 270.5 210.6 At 31 December 2013 Cost 340.7 356.0 Accumulated amortisation 70.2 145.4 Net book amount 270.5 210.6 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 270.5 210.6 Exchange rate adjustments 9.5 10.7 Additions Internal development costs 77.7 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 43.3 Cash payments 2.7 Interest capitalised 2.0 Impairment loss 8.0 Amortisation 8.8 24.9 Net book amount 342.9 242.4 At 31 December 2014 Cost 431.2 419.2 Accumulated amortisation 88.3 176.8 Net book amount 342.9 242.4 Charged to net operating costs in respect of development costs and to cost of sales in respect of programme participation costs.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 1.5% 2013: 1.6%.
The net book amount of development costs includes 125.5 million 2013: 91.1 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 14.2 years 2013: 9.1 years.
The net book amount of programme participation costs includes 228.6 million 2013: 202.7 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 9.0 years 2013: 8.4 years.
indd 109 04 03 2015 17:11 110 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Amortisation of these items is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
Principally relates to software costs.
Amortisation of Nil 2013: 1.4 million has been charged to exceptional operating items and is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
During 2014, cost and accumulated amortisation relating to completed order backlogs were eliminated.
The net book amount of customer relationships includes 332.1 million 2013: 350.2 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 55.7 million 2013: 59.8 million in respect of Meggitt Sensing Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 9.0 years 2013: 10.0 years and 10.2 years 2013: 11.2 years respectively.
The net book amount of technology includes 66.4 million 2013: 70.2 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 19.4 million 2013: 22.0 million in respect of Meggitt Sensing Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 9.0 years 2013: 10.0 years and 6.9 years 2013: 7.9 years respectively.
Meggitt Sensing Systems comparatives for 2013 have been restated to reflect the impact of the change in divisional structure described in note 6.
indd 110 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 111 21.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Total buildings equipment and vehicles m m m At 1 January 2013 Cost 169.2 380.7 549.9 Accumulated depreciation 55.0 262.7 317.7 Net book amount 114.2 118.0 232.2 Year ended 31 December 2013 Opening net book amount 114.2 118.0 232.2 Exchange rate adjustments 0.8 1.1 1.9 Business acquired 0.7 0.7 Businesses disposed 0.1 4.0 4.1 Additions 21.9 29.6 51.5 Disposals 0.1 0.6 0.7 Depreciation 6.5 25.7 32.2 Net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 At 31 December 2013 Cost 185.9 385.0 570.9 Accumulated depreciation 57.3 268.1 325.4 Net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 Exchange rate adjustments 1.3 2.7 4.0 Businesses acquired see note 42 0.1 0.5 0.6 Additions 3.6 31.6 35.2 Disposals 1.8 1.2 3.0 Reclassification 2.4 2.4 Depreciation 6.3 24.9 31.2 Net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 At 31 December 2014 Cost 179.6 413.8 593.4 Accumulated depreciation 56.5 285.8 342.3 Net book amount 123.1 128.0 251.1 Depreciation of 0.1 million 2013: 0.8 million has been charged to exceptional operating items and is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 27 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets, which have a carrying amount of 4.4 million included within land and buildings 2013: 4.4 million and 0.1 million 2013: 0.2 million included within plant, equipment and vehicles.
Inventories 2014 2013 m m Contract costs incurred 9.3 10.8 Less progress billings 3.0 Net contract costs 9.3 7.8 Raw materials and bought-in components 121.1 115.1 Manufacturing work in progress 141.0 127.9 Finished goods and goods for resale 55.8 48.4 Total 327.2 299.2 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales was 897.6 million 2013: 923.7 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 6.4 million 2013: 2.3 million in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, and has been reduced by 3.0 million 2013: 7.4 million in respect of the reversal of write-downs made in previous years.
indd 111 04 03 2015 17:11 112 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 232.3 244.6 Amounts recoverable on contracts 55.1 35.9 Prepayments and accrued income 14.5 12.2 Other receivables 123.4 126.1 Total 425.3 418.8 Less non-current portion: Other receivables 93.4 89.9 Non-current portion 93.4 89.9 Current portion 331.9 328.9 Other receivables includes 95.5 million 2013: 95.9 million in respect of insurance receivables arising on environmental issues relating to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group see note 31 of which 11.1 million 2013: 10.5 million is shown as current.
Trade receivables are stated after a provision for impairment of 3.7 million 2013: 4.1 million.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The provision for impairment against trade receivables is based on a specific risk assessment taking into account past default experience and is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 4.1 6.6 Exchange rate adjustments 0.1 0.1 Businesses disposed 0.5 Credit to income statement net operating costs 0.5 2.1 At 31 December 3.7 4.1 At 31 December 2014, trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts of 67.5 million 2013: 61.8 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade and other receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Up to 3 months overdue 41.5 53.2 Over 3 months overdue 26.0 8.6 Total 67.5 61.8 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
indd 112 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 113 24.
Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and on hand 95.4 101.0 Short-term bank deposits 10.1 15.1 Total 105.5 116.1 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
Trade and other payables current 2014 2013 m m Payments received on account 31.5 42.2 Trade payables 127.3 128.2 Social security and other taxes 8.4 12.5 Accrued expenses 52.6 47.8 Share buyback - close period commitment 20.0 Other payables 118.7 98.4 Total 358.5 329.1 26.
Trade and other payables non-current 2014 2013 m m Deferred consideration relating to acquired businesses 3.0 2.9 Other payables 2.9 2.3 Total 5.9 5.2 27.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: In one year or less 1.1 3.4 0.1 2.4 In more than one year but not more than five years 4.0 3.8 0.2 1.3 In more than five years 12.4 12.7 5.1 3.8 Total 17.5 19.9 5.4 7.5 Less: future finance charges 12.1 12.4 Present value of lease obligations 5.4 7.5 Less non-current portion 5.3 5.1 Current portion 0.1 2.4 Obligations under finance leases are principally US dollar denominated.
The weighted average period to maturity is 15.4 years 2013: 11.0 years and the weighted average interest rate is 18.0% 2013: 13.9%.
indd 113 04 03 2015 17:11 114 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Bank and other borrowings 2014 2013 m m Current Bank loans 10.8 3.9 Other loans 48.1 3.3 Total current 58.9 7.2 Non-current Bank loans 212.6 245.8 Other loans 404.1 420.2 Total non-current 616.7 666.0 Total 675.6 673.2 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 58.9 7.2 In more than one year but not more than five years 344.4 413.7 In more than five years 272.3 252.3 Total 675.6 673.2 Analysis of bank and other borrowings: Drawn under committed facilities 644.9 653.2 Less unamortised debt issue costs 3.6 3.9 Fair value adjustment to fixed rate borrowings 19.5 15.3 Drawn under uncommitted facilities 11.6 5.6 Interest accruals 3.2 3.0 Total 675.6 673.2 Debt issue costs are amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings 2013: Nil.
The Group has the following committed facilities: 2014 2013 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m Senior notes USD 70.0 million 44.9 44.9 42.3 42.3 Senior notes USD 600.0 million 384.8 384.8 362.3 362.3 Syndicated credit facility USD 700.0 million 186.4 236.1 422.5 Syndicated credit facility USD 400.0 million 62.2 179.3 241.5 Syndicated credit facility USD 900.0 million 215.2 362.0 577.2 Total 644.9 362.0 1,006.9 653.2 415.4 1,068.6 The Group issued USD 70.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2003.
The notes carry an interest rate of 5.46% and are due for repayment in 2015.
The Group issued USD 600.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2010.
The notes are in four tranches as follows: USD 200.0 million carry an interest rate of 4.62% and are due for repayment in 2017, USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020, USD 150.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are also due for repayment in 2020 and USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
During 2014, the Group secured a new five year USD 900.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2019 to replace the existing USD 700.0 million and USD 400.0 million syndicated revolving credit facilities which were due to mature in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
The new facility includes one-year extension options at the end of the first and second years.
At 31 December 2014, the amounts drawn under revolving credit facilities were 215.2 million 2013: 248.6 million represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars of 142.5 million 2013: 97.0 million, in Euros of 50.4 million 2013: 62.3 million, in Swiss francs of 10.3 million 2013: 78.3 million and in Sterling of 12.0 million 2013: 11.0 million.
Borrowings under the facilities are subject to interest at floating rates.
indd 114 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 115 28.
Bank and other borrowings continued The committed facilities available at each balance sheet date expire as follows: 2014 2013 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In one year or less 44.9 44.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 343.5 362.0 705.5 411.7 415.4 827.1 In more than five years 256.5 256.5 241.5 241.5 Total 644.9 362.0 1,006.9 653.2 415.4 1,068.6 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2014 2013 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 58.9 61.6 7.2 7.2 Non-current 616.7 625.7 666.0 676.3 Total 675.6 687.3 673.2 683.5 After taking account of financial derivatives that alter the interest basis of the financial liabilities entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure on gross bank and other borrowings is: As at 31 December 2014: Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 317.6 277.4 595.0 3.7 3.3 Swiss franc 14.8 14.8 Euro 50.4 0.9 51.3 Sterling 18.1 18.1 Gross bank and other borrowings 400.9 277.4 0.9 679.2 Less unamortised debt issue costs 2.8 0.8 3.6 Bank and other borrowings 398.1 276.6 0.9 675.6 Fixed rate borrowings As at 31 December 2013: Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 262.7 259.6 522.3 4.2 4.3 Swiss franc 79.6 79.6 Euro 62.3 0.3 1.6 64.2 0.7 3.1 Sterling 11.0 11.0 Gross bank and other borrowings 415.6 259.9 1.6 677.1 Less unamortised debt issue costs 3.2 0.7 3.9 Bank and other borrowings 412.4 259.2 1.6 673.2 The weighted average interest rate reflects the relative impact of interest rates based on both principal amounts and duration of borrowings.
The weighted average period to maturity for non-interest bearing borrowings is 4.4 years 2013: 3.5 years.
indd 115 04 03 2015 17:11 116 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial instruments As at 31 December 2014: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 93.4 93.4 93.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 28.3 1.3 29.6 29.6 Current: Trade and other receivables 317.4 317.4 317.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 1.1 1.1 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 105.5 105.5 105.5 Financial assets 29.4 1.3 516.3 547.0 547.0 Current: Trade and other payables 350.1 350.1 350.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 9.6 9.6 9.6 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 58.9 58.9 61.6 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 5.9 5.9 5.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 2.9 2.9 2.9 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.3 5.3 5.3 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 276.9 339.8 616.7 625.7 Financial liabilities 289.4 760.1 1,049.5 1,061.2 Total 260.0 1.3 516.3 760.1 502.5 514.2 As at 31 December 2013: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 89.9 89.9 89.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 33.4 2.1 35.5 35.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 316.7 316.7 316.7 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 11.2 11.2 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 116.1 116.1 116.1 Financial assets 44.6 2.1 522.7 569.4 569.4 Current: Trade and other payables 316.6 316.6 316.6 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 0.7 0.7 0.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 2.4 2.4 2.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 7.2 7.2 7.2 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 5.2 5.2 5.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 0.1 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.1 5.1 5.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 256.8 409.2 666.0 676.3 Financial liabilities 257.6 745.7 1,003.3 1,013.6 Total 213.0 2.1 522.7 745.7 433.9 444.2 Excludes prepayments and accrued income of 14.5 million 2013: 12.2 million see note 23.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 8.4 million 2013: 12.5 million see note 25.
indd 116 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 117 29.
Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, obligations under finance leases and the current element of floating rate bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within book value for credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual forward rates.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates.
The non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as it has been determined using significant inputs which are a mixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates and with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
The same methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the current element of fixed rate bank and other borrowings and the non-current element of bank and other borrowings which are held at amortised cost, but for which fair values are provided in the table above.
There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss Cumulative unrealised changes in the fair value of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Fair value at 1 January 7.0 10.0 Credited charged to net operating costs 0.7 3.0 Fair value at 31 December 7.7 7.0 The difference between the fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Fair value 276.9 256.8 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 19.5 15.3 Contractual amount payable at maturity 257.4 241.5 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit or loss: At 1 January 256.8 274.9 Exchange rate adjustments 16.1 4.4 Loss gain recognised in net operating costs 4.0 13.7 At 31 December 276.9 256.8 The largest movement in credit spread seen in a six month period since inception of the borrowings is 70 basis points.
A 70 basis point movement in the credit spread used as an input in determining the fair value at 31 December 2014, would impact profit before tax by approximately 9.0 million.
indd 117 04 03 2015 17:11 118 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 December 2014: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 102.6 1.3 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 256.5 27.0 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 134.3 284.3 2.4 12.5 Total 493.4 284.3 30.7 12.5 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 102.6 1.3 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 256.5 27.0 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 72.0 131.2 1.3 2.9 Non-current portion 431.1 131.2 29.6 2.9 Current portion 62.3 153.1 1.1 9.6 As at 31 December 2013: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 96.6 2.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 241.5 22.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 344.5 12.4 21.8 0.8 Total 682.6 12.4 46.7 0.8 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 96.6 2.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 241.5 22.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 170.6 1.6 10.6 0.1 Non-current portion 508.7 1.6 35.5 0.1 Current portion 173.9 10.8 11.2 0.7 Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2014 is 359.1 million 2013: 338.1 million, of which 64.1 million will expire in 2017, 102.6 million will expire in 2018, 112.2 million will expire in 2020 and 80.2 million will expire in 2022.
The contracts are all denominated in USD.
Of the notional principal amount outstanding, 102.6 million 2013: 96.6 million has the economic effect of converting floating rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate US dollar borrowings and 256.5 million 2013: 241.5 million has the economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the floating rate to fixed rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts as fair value hedges.
Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar forward sales USD 2.3 3.8 17.4 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 0.1 8.7 4.4 0.8 Total 2.4 12.5 21.8 0.8 93987 p90-132.
indd 118 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 119 30.
Derivative financial instruments continued Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2014 2013 m m S&P Moodys rating: AA 4.0 7.2 A 26.7 33.8 BBB 5.7 Total 30.7 46.7 31.
Provisions Environmental Onerous Warranty Other Total a contracts costs d b c m m m m m At 1 January 2014 120.4 40.2 12.6 20.3 193.5 Exchange rate adjustments 7.6 0.8 0.3 0.4 9.1 Business acquired see note 42 0.1 0.1 Additional provision in year cost of sales 2.5 8.1 10.6 Additional provision in year net operating costs 25.2 3.6 28.8 Unused amounts reversed cost of sales 7.5 0.2 2.4 10.1 Unused amounts reversed net operating costs 8.6 4.0 9.9 22.5 Charge to income statement net finance costs see note 13 1.1 1.1 Utilised 12.7 9.7 7.9 4.7 35.0 At 31 December 2014 133.0 22.3 13.0 7.3 175.6 2014 2013 m m Current 45.1 44.3 Non-current 130.5 149.2 At 31 December 2014 175.6 193.5 a. P rovision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation in a number of businesses.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these sites based on information currently available.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next fifteen years and are discounted, where appropriate, using an appropriate discount rate.
A receivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties see note 23.
The net charge to net operating costs of 16.6 million was partly offset by a credit to net operating costs of 9.7 million, recognised in respect of an increase in the year in amounts recoverable under these insurance policies and from other parties.
b. Onerous contracts include lease obligations and trading contracts.
Provision has been made for the estimated rental shortfall in respect of properties with onerous lease obligations.
These will be utilised over the lease terms typically up to five years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
Provision has also been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
As described in note 11, during 2013 the Group was made aware of an issue relating to the supply from a vendor of non-conforming raw material in one of our businesses.
Provision has been made for the estimated future costs associated with this matter, which include the provision of a number of free of charge replacement parts to customers over a period of several years.
There are a number of uncertainties regarding the ultimate amounts that will be payable, including the extent to which replacement parts will be required.
However, the directors believe, based on the information currently available, that the ultimate outcome will not be significantly different from that recognised.
Onerous trading contract provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
c. Provision has been made for product warranty claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the next three years.
d. A number of asbestos-related claims have been made against subsidiary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is a provision for claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
During 2013, an administrative settlement was reached with the US Government following its investigation of alleged violations of US export control laws by certain subsidiaries of the Group.
Under the terms of the 30-month consent agreement, Meggitt-USA, Inc. was assessed a civil penalty of USD 25 million, of which USD 22 million was suspended on condition the Government approves certain past or future remedial costs incurred or to be incurred by the Groups US subsidiaries.
In addition, the Group is required to implement additional future compliance measures.
No provision is held for the suspended penalty as it is not considered probable that such amounts will be payable.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
indd 119 04 03 2015 17:11 120 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Retirement Other Total Deferred tax assets benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2013 94.3 21.0 115.3 Exchange rate adjustments 0.1 0.1 Business acquired 0.1 0.1 Businesses disposed 4.6 4.6 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 Charge to income statement see note 14 4.5 13.4 17.9 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 21.6 0.1 21.7 Credit to equity see note 14 3.3 3.3 At 31 December 2013 68.1 16.0 84.1 Exchange rate adjustments 2.7 0.3 3.0 Reclassifications 3.7 3.7 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 7.3 2.1 5.2 Credit to other comprehensive income see note 14 24.2 0.2 24.4 Charge to equity see note 14 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2014 87.7 13.1 100.8 Accelerated Intangible Total Deferred tax liabilities tax assets depreciation m m m At 1 January 2013 16.5 288.1 304.6 Exchange rate adjustments 0.3 4.0 4.3 Businesses disposed 6.0 6.0 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 2.8 15.1 12.3 At 31 December 2013 19.3 275.0 294.3 Exchange rate adjustments 0.9 14.1 15.0 Reclassifications 0.1 0.9 0.8 Charge to income statement see note 14 1.8 4.3 6.1 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2014 22.1 292.6 314.7 Acquired in business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets 0.9 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities 214.8 219.3 Net balance at 31 December 213.9 210.2 Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m To be recovered within one year 0.2 0.2 To be recovered after more than one year 0.7 8.9 Total 0.9 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Due within one year 0.3 Due after more than one year 214.8 219.0 Total 214.8 219.3 The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 23.5 million 2013: 25.2 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to a tax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
indd 120 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 121 33.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With two exceptions, these schemes are open to future accrual for existing members.
The schemes are a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on a members length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are also dependent on salary at retirement or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides a fixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of a defined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
The UK scheme is a registered scheme and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, including the payment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
It is established under trust and the responsibility for its governance lies with the trustees who also agree funding arrangements with the Group.
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and are insured by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits.
They are established under, and governed by, the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
Meggitt is a named fiduciary with the authority to manage the operation of the US schemes.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as obligations fall due.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other post-retirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, and former employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 21.7 19.2 Defined benefit pension schemes: Service cost 11.9 12.7 Past service cost 1.1 0.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 7.8 9.5 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 20.8 22.9 Healthcare schemes: Service cost 0.8 1.5 Past service credit 8.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 2.2 2.0 Total credit charge in respect of healthcare schemes 5.9 3.5 Total charge 36.6 45.6 During the year, the Group made changes to the way in which medical benefits are provided.
These changes, following which the Group continues to provide comparable benefits, resulted in a past service credit being recognised of 8.4 million 2013: Nil which is included within the amounts shown in the table.
Of the total charge, 26.6 million 2013: 34.1 million has been charged to operating profit see note 9, of which 19.5 million 2013: 18.9 million has been included in cost of sales and 7.1 million 2013: 15.2 million in net operating costs.
The remaining 10.0 million 2013: 11.5 million is included in finance costs see note 13.
indd 121 04 03 2015 17:11 122 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the balance sheet 2014 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 681.4 350.7 46.8 1,078.9 Fair value of scheme assets 501.4 259.7 761.1 Retirement benefit obligations 180.0 91.0 46.8 317.8 2013 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 573.4 304.8 48.3 926.5 Fair value of scheme assets 449.9 238.5 688.4 Retirement benefit obligations 123.5 66.3 48.3 238.1 Of the total deficit of 317.8 million 2013: 238.1 million, 63.8 million 2013: 61.0 million is in respect of unfunded schemes.
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2014 2013 Liabilities Assets Total Liabilities Assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 926.5 688.4 238.1 934.4 634.7 299.7 Exchange rate adjustments 15.6 7.9 7.7 4.0 3.1 0.9 Service cost 12.7 12.7 14.2 14.2 Past service credit cost 7.8 7.8 0.7 0.7 Interest expense income see note 13 38.9 28.9 10.0 36.4 24.9 11.5 Contributions Group 42.0 42.0 41.6 41.6 Contributions members 3.2 3.2 3.6 3.6 Benefits paid 38.8 38.8 37.5 37.5 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Loss gain from change in demographic assumptions 10.8 10.8 6.9 6.9 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 117.8 117.8 14.4 14.4 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in interest income 30.9 30.9 25.5 25.5 Total remeasurement loss gain 128.6 30.9 97.7 21.3 25.5 46.8 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 1,078.9 761.1 317.8 926.5 688.4 238.1 Present value of schemes liabilities.
Fair value of schemes assets.
indd 122 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 123 33.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2014 2013 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 3.60% 3.85% 3.85% 4.60% 4.55% 4.55% Inflation rate 3.10% N A N A 3.40% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.10% N A N A 2.60% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.00% N A N A 3.30% N A N A Salary increases 4.10% 4.74% N A 4.40% 4.76% N A To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the scheme, which include the results of a postcode analysis of members used to support the 2012 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions were previously based on the RP2000 IRS RPA tables.
During 2014, new mortality tables have been adopted and the assumptions are now based on the RPH-2014 headcount weighted table, for schemes where benefits are not salary-linked, and the RP-2014 table for other schemes, with both tables projecting rates of mortality to fall using the Social Security Administrations projection scale Scale SSA.
indd 123 04 03 2015 17:11 124 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 2014 2013 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 23.6-25.3 21.6-22.2 23.5-25.2 19.3 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 26.4-28.0 23.4-23.7 26.3-27.9 21.1 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.9-23.6 20.3-20.9 21.8-23.6 19.3 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 24.5-26.1 22.3-22.5 24.3-26.0 21.1 Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: The impact of a 10 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2014 to increase by approximately 18.3 million: The impact of a 10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2014 to increase by approximately 13.5 million: The impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2014 to increase by approximately 27.5 million.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis are consistent with the previous year.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant of which are detailed below.
Except as discussed below, the Group has not changed the processes used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year.
Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset types such as equities, property, hedge funds, commodities and derivatives where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the long-term nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to out-perform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
During the year, part of the equity portfolio held by the UK and US schemes was disinvested.
The amounts disinvested totalled approximately 100 million.
The proceeds were used to purchase structured investments consisting of high quality government bonds together with equity derivatives.
The structured investments enable the schemes to benefit from equity-like returns, subject to certain caps, on the amounts invested, whilst providing an element of protection against falls in equity markets.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
For each funded scheme, there is a glide-path in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in long-term index linked securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
Inflation risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to levels of salary inflation, inflation increases that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in both the UK and US schemes by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over a period of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
indd 124 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 125 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds this estimate, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Group currently does not use derivatives, such as longevity swaps, to mitigate this risk.
Other information In the UK, the last triennial valuation was in 2012 following which the Group agreed with the trustees to increase deficit reduction payments, with the aim being to eliminate the deficit by 2024.
Under the agreement with the trustees, deficit payments in 2015 will be 21.4 million and will increase by approximately 5% per annum until 2024.
Although the present value of future deficit payments agreed as part of the 2012 actuarial valuation exceed the scheme deficit at 31 December 2014, such amounts would be recoverable by the Group under the scheme rules once the last member has died and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
In the US, deficit reduction payments are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
Deficit payments in 2015 are expected to be 4.4 million and, absent any changes in legislation, will reduce over the following two years before increasing to 6.7 million by 2019.
Thereafter, annual payments are expected to remain relatively stable for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present value of deficit payments due under legislation do not exceed the schemes deficits at 31 December 2014 and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
There is no significant deficit in the Swiss scheme.
The estimated total Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2015 are 43.1 million.
The weighted average duration of the UK schemes defined benefit obligation is 19.6 years.
The weighted average duration of the overseas schemes defined benefit obligation is 11.5 years.
Share capital and share schemes Issued share capital Ordinary Nominal Net shares of value consideration 5p each Number m m m Allotted and fully paid: At 1 January 2013 785.0 39.3 Issued on exercise of executive share awards 7.2 0.3 0.5 Issued on exercise of sharesave awards 1.1 0.1 2.0 Scrip dividends 3.8 0.2 20.0 At 31 December 2013 797.1 39.9 Issued on exercise of executive share awards 0.4 0.1 Share buyback purchased in year 6.8 0.3 33.7 Scrip dividends 11.6 0.5 53.0 At 31 December 2014 802.3 40.1 93987 p90-132.
indd 125 04 03 2015 17:11 126 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 3.4 years 2013: 4.2 years.
All the above share appreciation rights, which were granted for nil consideration, may in certain circumstances, be exercised earlier than the dates given.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 6.3 years 2013: 7.1 years.
Share-based payment The Group operates a number of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of such schemes was 1.7 million 2013: 11.9 million see note 9.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement is set out below.
Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 Equity-settled Under the Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
For awards made in 2014 the number of shares, if any that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 33% of the award : A return on trading assets ROTA measure 33% of the award : and A strategic goals measure 33% of the award.
indd 126 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 127 35.
Share-based payment continued Each of the conditions is measured over a three year performance period.
An expense of 1.7 million 2013: Nil was recorded in the year.
Awards are made as nil cost options.
An employee is generally entitled to a payment at the end of the vesting period, equivalent to dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period, on any shares that vest.
The fair value of the award made in 2014 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant, which was 467.54 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2014 Number of shares under award outstanding m At 1 January Awarded 4.2 At 31 December 4.2 At 31 December 2014, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 Equity-settled Awards are no longer made under this scheme.
Share awards under the scheme were granted to certain senior executives at an exercise price equal to the market price of the shares on the day before the grant was made.
The awards are generally exercisable at the earliest three years after the grant date.
Awards can only be exercised if the Group meets an earnings per share performance condition.
The Group has no obligation, legal or constructive, to settle the awards in cash.
Awards under Part A of the scheme provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled, on payment of the exercise price, to the number of shares under award.
Awards under Part B of the scheme are in the form of equity-settled share appreciation rights SARs and provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled to receive equity equivalent to the gain in value between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Awards may be exercised at any point between the vesting date and ten years after the date the award was made.
A credit of 0.9 million 2013: 2.5 million expense was recorded in the year.
Movements in the number of outstanding awards and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Average Number of Average Number of exercise awards exercise awards price outstanding price outstanding Pence m Pence m At 1 January 360.49 21.1 304.35 24.5 Granted 526.58 4.1 Lapsed 371.43 2.0 365.26 0.5 Modified from cash-settled 262.04 3.4 Exercised 292.76 3.4 262.42 10.4 At 31 December 373.89 15.7 360.49 21.1 At 31 December 2014, of the total number of awards outstanding, 7.1 million are exercisable at an average exercise price of 274.59 pence 2013: 7.2 million at an average exercise price of 245.50 pence.
The fair values of the awards made in 2013 were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant assumptions used in the model and the fair values determined were: 2013 2013 Award in Modification September in April Share price at date of grant modification pence 526.50 468.60 Exercise price pence 526.50 351.70 Vesting period years 3.0 1.0 Expected volatility 35% 27% Expected life of award years 5.0 3.0 Risk free rate 1.56% 0.73% Expected dividend yield 3.24% 2.65% Fair value at date of award pence 121.37 120.54 Expected volatility figures were based on volatility over the last five years measured using a statistical analysis of daily share prices.
indd 127 04 03 2015 17:11 128 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment continued Cash-settled Awards are no longer made under this scheme.
Under the scheme the Group was able to grant cash-settled SARs to certain overseas employees.
The Group is required to pay the intrinsic value of the SARs to the employee at the date of exercise.
An expense of Nil 2013: 3.1 million was recorded in the year.
The Group has recorded a liability at the balance sheet date of 0.1 million 2013: 0.7 million.
The total intrinsic value at the balance sheet date was 0.1 million 2013: 0.9 million.
Movements in the number of outstanding awards and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Average Number of Average Number of exercise awards exercise awards price outstanding price outstanding Pence m Pence m At 1 January 354.05 0.6 267.74 4.8 Granted 526.50 0.1 Lapsed 326.04 0.1 385.07 0.1 Modified to equity-settled 262.04 3.4 Exercised 264.18 0.2 242.59 0.8 At 31 December 436.22 0.3 354.05 0.6 At 31 December 2014, of the total number of awards outstanding, Nil million are exercisable 2013: 0.2 million at an average exercise price of 205.24 pence.
As a cash-settled award, the fair value of outstanding awards is remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005 Awards are no longer made under this scheme.
Under the Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005, an annual award of shares could be made to certain senior executives.
For awards made under the plan, the number of shares an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 50% of the award : A cash flow measure 25% of the award : and Total Shareholder Return TSR achieved by the Group as measured against a comparator group selected by the Remuneration Committee 25% of the award.
Each of the conditions is measured over a three year performance period.
An expense of 0.3 million 2013: 5.4 million was recorded in the year.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2014 2013 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 7.7 7.8 Awarded 2.1 Lapsed 1.5 0.6 Released to employees 1.1 1.6 At 31 December 5.1 7.7 At 31 December 2014, of the total number of shares under award outstanding, 1.1 million are eligible for release 2013: 1.5 million.
The fair value of the award made in 2013, subject to the EPS and cash flow performance conditions, was 478.00 pence.
The fair value of the award made in 2013, subject to the TSR performance condition, was determined using a Monte Carlo model.
The significant assumptions used in the model and the fair value determined were: 2013 Award in March Share price at date of grant pence 478.00 Vesting period years 3.0 Expected volatility 26% Expected life of award years 3.0 Risk free rate 0.26% Fair value at date of award pence 248.00 93987 p90-132.
indd 128 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 129 36.
Own shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to acquire shares to be used to satisfy share options and awards under the employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 75.
At 31 December 2014, the trust held 337,664 ordinary shares 2013: Nil of which 281,638 were unallocated, being retained by the trust for future use.
The balance of 56,026 shares were held in vested share accounts to satisfy particular awards which have fully vested in employees.
All shares, whether or not allocated, are held for the benefit of employees.
The shares were purchased during the year and have a cost of 1.7 million at 31 December 2014.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2014 was 1.8 million representing 0.04% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property leases, other leasing arrangements and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2014 2013 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 0.9 1.4 Property, plant and equipment 11.0 7.5 Total 11.9 8.9 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various factories, warehouses and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
These leases have various lease periods, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations.
Additionally the Group leases various items of plant and machinery under both cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases.
Expenditure on operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred and is disclosed in note 8.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 m m In one year or less 12.7 13.0 In more than one year but not more than five years 37.2 38.2 In more than five years 24.1 25.7 Total 74.0 76.9 Other financial commitments The Group enters into long-term arrangements with Aircraft and original equipment manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents a significant long-term financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of a number of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over a period which can extend over 40 years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual commitments to incur development costs and programme participation costs at 31 December, 2014, which are expected to be recognised as intangible assets when incurred are as follows: Programme Development participation costs costs m m In one year or less 62.0 40.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 19.2 220.5 In more than five years 2.7 732.4 Total 83.9 993.0 93987 p90-132.
indd 129 04 03 2015 17:11 130 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Cash inflow from operations 2014 2013 m m Profit for the year 177.0 232.3 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 1.2 0.3 Finance costs see note 13 28.5 31.2 Tax see note 14 31.9 37.1 Depreciation see note 21 31.2 32.2 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 112.6 123.2 Impairment loss see note 19 8.0 3.2 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.1 Loss gain on disposal or closure of businesses see note 11 2.9 9.0 Financial instruments see note 10 29.2 6.1 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 29.3 27.4 Share-based payment expense see note 35 1.7 11.9 Changes in working capital: Inventories 17.7 16.4 Trade and other receivables 9.8 24.6 Trade and other payables 10.1 13.1 Provisions 28.0 27.4 Cash inflow from operations 346.9 345.7 40.
Movements in net debt 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 564.6 642.5 Free cash inflow 146.8 110.4 Businesses acquired see note 42 28.6 26.5 Business acquisition expenses 0.4 Businesses disposed 53.3 Business disposal expenses see note 11 0.5 0.5 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 51.4 75.6 Purchase of own shares 11.6 Issue of equity share capital 0.1 2.5 Share buyback - purchased in year 33.7 Net cash generated inflow 21.1 63.2 Debt acquired with businesses 0.3 Exchange rate adjustments 24.7 2.7 Other non-cash movements 7.3 12.3 At 31 December 575.5 564.6 Analysed as: 2014 2013 m m Bank and other borrowings current see note 28 58.9 7.2 Bank and other borrowings non-current see note 28 616.7 666.0 Obligations under finance leases current see note 27 0.1 2.4 Obligations under finance leases non-current see note 27 5.3 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 105.5 116.1 Total 575.5 564.6 93987 p90-132.
indd 130 04 03 2015 17:11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 131 41.
Major non-cash transactions During the year, the Company issued 11.6 million shares worth 53.0 million in respect of scrip dividends 2013: 3.8 million shares worth 20.0 million see notes 16 and 34.
42. Business combinations On 31 December 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of Precision Engine Controls Corporation PECC.
PECC is a leading supplier of actuation systems and fuel metering valves to manufacturers of small-frame gas turbines used predominantly in the oil and gas and power generation industries.
PECCs products are complementary to Meggitts existing valve technology in the aero-derivative gas turbine market and expand our range of actuation capabilities.
The assets and liabilities of PECC at the date of acquisition, including the goodwill arising on consolidation, were as follows: Net assets m Goodwill see note 18 19.9 Other intangible assets 3.9 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 Inventories 3.0 Trade and other receivables - current 1.4 Trade and other payables - current 0.6 Provisions - non-current see note 31 0.1 Net assets 27.9 Consideration satisfied in cash 28.3 Less amounts recoverable under working capital mechanism 0.4 Total consideration payable 27.9 Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the balance sheet date, the difference between the book value of acquired net assets and consideration payable has been provisionally recognised as goodwill.
During 2015, the Group will determine the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, with any corresponding adjustment necessary being made to the value of goodwill recognised.
Costs related to the acquisition were 0.5 million.
The impact of the acquired business on the results of the Group for the period since acquisition is not significant and would not have been significant had it been acquired on 1 January 2014.
Total consideration paid in respect of acquisitions during the year is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Cash paid in respect of PECC 28.3 Cash paid in respect of Piezotech 26.5 Cash paid in respect of other acquisitions 0.3 Total 28.6 26.5 On 10 September 2014, the Group acquired a small business which included the acquisition of other intangible assets of 0.1 million and property, plant and equipment of 0.2 million.
indd 131 04 03 2015 17:11 132 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 43.
Group companies The following information is not a complete listing of all subsidiary companies at 31 December 2014 and relates only to those subsidiaries principally affecting the revenues, profits or assets of the Group.
United Kingdom Meggitt Aerospace Limited Meggitt UK Limited Meggitt Finance Limited Continental Europe Artus SAS France Meggitt SA Switzerland North America Linear Motion LLC Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation Meggitt Orange County, Inc. Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. Meggitt GP, Inc. OECO, LLC Meggitt Oregon, Inc. Pacific Scientific Company Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Securaplane Technologies, Inc. Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. Whittaker Corporation Meggitt USA, Inc. Rest of World Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore Meggitt Brasil Solueos fide Engenharia Limited Brazil a.
United Kingdom companies listed above are incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
North American companies listed above are incorporated and registered in the United States of America.
Other companies listed above are incorporated in the country named.
b. T he ordinary shares of all subsidiaries were 100% owned by the Company, either directly or indirectly, at 31 December 2014. c. All companies listed above are included in the consolidation.
d. C ompanies marked are management companies.
Otherwise all companies are operating companies engaged in the Groups principal activities as described in note 1.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be annexed to the next annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
