Melrose Industries PLC 156 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor of the Company.
That, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act doubt as to the action you should take, 2006 the Act, the directors of the Company the Directors you should consult your stockbroker, bank be and are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or manager, solicitor, accountant, fund manager to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights : or other independent financial adviser A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 422,209: and authorised under the Financial Services B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 844,418 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal in the United Kingdom or, if not, another amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph appropriately authorised independent A of this resolution in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: financial adviser.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Melrose Industries PLC the Company, you should send this ii to holders of other equity securities as required by document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or the rights of those securities or, subject to such to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will restrictions and make any arrangements which they be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on 14 May 2015 for the following shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws resolutions and resolutions 15 to 17 inclusive as special resolutions.
of any territory or any other matter, Ordinary resolutions such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the Companys 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, the financial year ended 31 December 2014, together with if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2016, but, in each the Directors report, strategic report and the auditors report case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements on those financial statements.
before the authority expires which would or might require 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after the authority part containing the Directors remuneration policy for the year expires, and so that the Directors may allot shares or grant ended 31 December 2014, as set out on pages 78 to 95 save Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement for pages 88 to 95 of the Companys 2014 Annual Report.
notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
To declare a final dividend of 5.3p per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 December 2014.
To re-elect Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect David Roper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Perry Crosthwaite as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect John Grant as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Liz Hewitt as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
S Sh ha ar re eh ho ollde der r i in nf fo or rm mati atio on n Melrose Industries PLC 157 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Special resolutions C the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 15.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 14, in accordance with Share is not more than the higher of: sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the Directors be and are generally i 105% of the average of the middle market quotation empowered to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official the Act for cash pursuant to the authorities granted by resolution List of the London Stock Exchange for the five 14 as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment business days immediately preceding the day on provided that this power shall be limited: which the Ordinary Share is purchased: and A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment and the highest current independent bid on the pursuant to the authority granted under paragraph B of trading venue where the purchase is carried out, resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of in each case, exclusive of expenses: rights issue only : D this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as Companys next Annual General Meeting after this may be practicable to their existing holdings: and resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by on 30 June 2016: the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, E the Company may make a contract of purchase of Ordinary as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, Shares under this authority which would or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance restrictions and make any arrangements which they of any such contract: and consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, F any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this authority regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by of any territory or any other matter: and the Company, depending on which course of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set of shareholders at the time.
out in paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities 17.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
14 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 126,662, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Recommendation Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2016, but so that at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the the Company may make offers or agreements before the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the power expires which would or might require equity securities Directors unanimously recommend that ordinary shareholders to be allotted after the power expires and so that the Directors vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, as the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this authority has expired.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally Adam Westley authorised to make one or more market purchases within the Company Secretary meaning of section 693 of the Act of Ordinary Shares in the 2 April 2015 capital of the Company provided that: Registered Office: A the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares 11th Floor Colmore Plaza authorised to be purchased is 99,520,696: 20 Colmore Circus Queensway B the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Birmingham Share is the nominal value of an Ordinary Share at the West Midlands time of such purchase: B4 6AT Melrose Industries PLC 158 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions the Directors remuneration policy is subject to an annual advisory Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive are proposed as ordinary shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution: Resolution 2 is to resolutions, which means that for each of those resolutions approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part to be passed, more than half the votes cast must be cast in containing the Directors remuneration policy.
Resolutions 15 to 17 inclusive are proposed as special resolutions, which means that for each Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of The Board is recommending, and the shareholders are being asked the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
to approve, the declaration of a final dividend of 5.3 pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The final Resolution 1 Receipt of 2014 Annual Report and dividend will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 18 May financial statements 2015 to the holders of Ordinary Shares whose names are recorded The Directors are required to lay the Companys financial on the register of members of the Company at the close of statements, the strategic report and the Directors and auditors business on 17 April 2015. reports on those financial statements collectively, the Annual Report before shareholders each year at the Annual General Resolutions 4 to 11 inclusive Re-election of Directors Meeting AGM.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Companys articles of association the Articles, Resolution 2 Approval of Directors remuneration report every Director will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical Following changes to the Act and in line with new regulations which details of each Director can be found on pages 62 and 63 of the came into effect on 1 October 2013, the Directors remuneration 2014 Annual Report.
All of the non-executive Directors standing report the Directors Remuneration Report is now presented in for re-election are considered independent under the Code.
three sections: Resolution 12 Re-appointment of auditor the annual statement from the Chairman of the The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general Remuneration Committee: meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold the annual report on remuneration: and office until the next such meeting.
the Directors remuneration policy The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration independence and objectivity of the existing external auditor, Committee, set out on pages 78 to 80 of the 2014 Annual Report, Deloitte LLP, on behalf of the Board, and concluded that the summarises, for the year ended 31 December 2014, the major external auditor was in all respects effective.
decisions taken on Directors remuneration, any substantial changes relating to Directors remuneration made during the year This resolution proposes the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP until and the context in which those changes occurred and decisions the conclusion of the next AGM.
Resolution 13 Authority to agree auditors remuneration The annual report on remuneration, set out on pages 81 to 88 This resolution seeks authority for the Audit Committee to of the 2014 Annual Report, provides details of the remuneration determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
paid to Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, including base salary, taxable benefits, short-term incentives Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares including percentage deferred, long-term incentives vested in This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors the year, pension-related benefits, any other items in the nature the authority to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to of remuneration and any sum s recovered or withheld during the subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the Company year in respect of amounts paid in earlier years.
Rights pursuant to section 551 of the Act the Section 551 authority.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the The Directors remuneration policy, set out on pages 88 to 95 of the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 2014 Annual Report, provides details of the Companys policy on 422,209, being approximately one-third of the Companys issued Directors remuneration including the policy on payments for loss Ordinary Share capital as at 2 April 2015. of office.
This policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on13 May 2014, the approval being valid for three years from that In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, date.
As the policy is unchanged, shareholder approval of the paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority policy is not required at this AGM.
All remuneration payments and to allot shares in the Company or grant Rights in connection with payments for loss of office made by the Company to the current a rights issue up to aggregate nominal amount of 844,418, and any former Directors must be consistent with the Directors representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued remuneration policy or, if inconsistent with the Directors remuneration policy, must have been separately approved by Ordinary Share capital as at 2 April 2015, as reduced by the way of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants under with the relevant provisions of the Act.
Approval would also be paragraph A of this resolution.
sought from shareholders if, at any time in the next two years, the Company wished to make any changes to the policy.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
S Sh ha ar re eh ho ollde der r i in nf fo or rm mati atio on n Melrose Industries PLC 159 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information If approved, the Section 551 authority shall, unless renewed, Resolution 16 Authority to purchase own shares revoked or varied by the Company, expire at the end of the This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Company Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, the authority to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 at the close of business on 30 June 2016.
The exception to this and 701 of the Act.
is that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights after the authority has expired in connection with an offer or agreement This authority is limited to an aggregate maximum number of made or entered into before the authority expired.
The Directors 99,520,696 Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the Companys have no present intention to exercise the Section 551 authority.
issued Ordinary Share capital as at 2 April 2015.
Resolution 15 Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights The maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share will be an amount which is not more than the higher of i 5% above the This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors average of the middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as the power to allot equity securities of the Company pursuant to derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange sections 570 and 573 of the Act the Section 570 and 573 power for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to the Ordinary Share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of their existing shareholdings.
the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out in each The power is limited to allotments for cash in connection with case, exclusive of expenses.
pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas If approved, the authority shall, unless varied, revoked or renewed, requirements and otherwise for cash up to a maximum nominal expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is value of 126,662, representing approximately 10% of the passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2016.
The Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 2 April 2015.
Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their The Directors intend to adhere to the guidelines set out in the authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles as updated in March 2015 and not to allot shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis Resolution 17 Notice period for general meetings other pursuant to the authority in Resolution 15 B : than AGMs This resolution seeks shareholder approval to allow the Company in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the Companys issued to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear Ordinary Share capital: or days notice.
In accordance with the Companies Shareholders in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the Companys issued Rights Regulations 2009, the notice period required for general Ordinary Share capital in a rolling three-year period, meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
in each case other than in connection with an acquisition AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
the announcement of the allotment.
In accordance with the Act, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting If approved, the Section 570 and 573 power shall apply until the in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, days notice.
if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2016.
The exception to this is that the Directors may allot equity securities after the power has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made or entered into before the power expired.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise the Section 570 and 573 power.
Melrose Industries PLC 160 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes as to the proxy, voting and attendance 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message procedures at the Annual General Meeting AGM a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated 1.
The holders of Ordinary Shares in the Company are entitled to in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds attend the AGM and are entitled to vote.
A member entitled to specifications, and must contain the information required attend and vote may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of available via www.
The message, regardless the Company.
Such a member may appoint more than one of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed rights attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a proxy, must in order to be valid be transmitted so as to be member of the Company.
received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00 am on 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed to the message by the CREST Application Host from which or a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry received by the Companys registrars at the address specified to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through of a day that is not a working day before the stated time for CREST should be communicated to the appointee through holding the meeting.
Returning a completed form of proxy will other means.
not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply between him and the shareholder by whom he was nominated, in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the have a right to be appointed or to have someone else responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the ordinary shareholders of the Company.
CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the system and timings.
purposes of the determination by the Company of the number 9.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Companys register of members by 6.00 pm on 12 May 2015 Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001. or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more entries on the register of members after this time shall be corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so or vote at the meeting.
in relation to the same shares.
As at 2 April 2015, the Companys issued share capital consists of 995,206,966 Ordinary Shares of 7 55 pence each, carrying one vote each.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
S Sh ha ar re eh ho ollde der r i in nf fo or rm mati atio on n Melrose Industries PLC 161 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information 11.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold 16.
The following documents will be available for inspection at requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Companys registered office during normal business hours the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance prior to and during the meeting: connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold A copies of all service agreements under which Directors office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts of the Company are employed by the Company or any and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
subsidiaries: and The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Directors of the Company.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, 17.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not at www.
In order to register your vote online, later than the time when it makes the statement available on you will need to enter the Task ID, together with your Voting ID the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the and Shareholder Reference Number which are set out on the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the enclosed Proxy Form.
The return of the Proxy Form by post or Company has been required under section 527 of the Act registering your vote online will not prevent you from attending to publish on a website.
the Annual General Meeting and voting in person, should you 12.
Any member holding Ordinary Shares attending the meeting wish.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would at www.
co. uk and click on the link to vote.
interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve The on-screen instructions give details on how to complete the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has the appointment process.
A proxy appointment made already been given on a website in the form of an answer to electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the than those provided or if received after 11.00 am on Company or the good order of the meeting that the question 12 May 2015. be answered.
Voting at the AGM will be by poll.
The Chairman will invite each Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 shareholder, corporate representative and proxy present at Reduced Disclosure Framework the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, Financial Reporting Requirements by the Financial the Chairman will cast the votes for which he has been Reporting Council, Melrose Industries PLC is required appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected at the end to change its accounting framework for its entity financial of the meeting.
Once the results have been verified by the statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for its financial Companys registrar, Equiniti, they will be notified to the UK year which commenced on 1 January 2015.
The Board Listing Authority, announced through a Regulatory Information considers that it is in the best interests of the Group for Service and will be available to view on the Companys website.
Melrose Industries PLC to adopt FRS 101 Reduced 14.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section Disclosure Framework.
No disclosures in the current UK 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
GAAP financial statements would be omitted on adoption of FRS 101.
A shareholder or shareholders holding in 15.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this aggregate 5% or more of the total allotted shares in Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents Melrose Industries PLC may serve objections to the use including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company of the disclosure exemptions on Melrose Industries PLC, for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
in writing, to its registered office 11th Floor, Colmore Plaza, 20 Colmore Circus Queensway, Birmingham, West Midlands B4 6AT not later than 30 June 2015.
