Melrose Industries PLC 96 Annual Report 2014 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and financial statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys andregulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets are required to prepare the Group financial statements in of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom of the corporate and financial information included on the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of Directors responsibility statement the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of the Company for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the In preparing the parent company financial statements, the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or select suitable accounting policies and then apply them loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and prudent: and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and risks and uncertainties that they face: and explained in the financial statements: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the information necessary for shareholders to assess the continue in business.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International By order of the Board Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Geoffrey Martin Simon Peckham provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Group Finance Director Chief Executive specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 4March 2015 4 March 2015 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Financials Melrose Industries PLC 97 Annual Report 2014 Financials Financial contents Consolidated statements Company statements Independent auditors report 98 Company Balance Sheet for Melrose Industries PLC 151 Consolidated Income Statement 102 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 103 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 104 Note Consolidated Balance Sheet 105 1.
Significant accounting policies 152 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 106 2.
Investment in subsidiaries 153 Notes to the financial statements 4.
Summary of significant accounting policies 108 7.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 155 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources 8.
Related party transactions 155 of estimation uncertainty 116 9.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 128 13.
Financial instruments and risk management 143 25.
