Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc Report on the Group financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves Our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 30 April 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by year then ended: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: have been properly prepared in accordance with International whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied European Union: and and adequately disclosed: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
by the directors: and This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in What we have audited the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently prepared by Micro Focus International plc, comprise: materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 April 2014: If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Overview of our audit approach Materiality the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and statement We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine of cash flows for the year then ended: and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial the summary of significant accounting policies and notes to statements as a whole.
the consolidated financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be $7.6m.
This represents The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their approximately 5% of profit before tax.
We had regard to profit preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the before tax as we believe this is the most appropriate measure of European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.4m as well the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements reporting for qualitative reasons.
and are identified as audited.
Overview of the scope of our audit The financial statements are a consolidation of a significant number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses across its three segments.
There is also a centralised function through which the Group controls and processes revenue related transactions for the majority of the Groups reporting units.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
