Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Notes to the Company financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 I Summary of significant accounting policies F Employee benefit costs The basis of preparation and the principal accounting policies adopted a Pension obligations in the preparation of the financial information are set out below.
The Company operates a defined contribution plan for which it pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance A Basis of preparation plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Company The Company financial statements have been prepared on a going has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance paid.
The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense with the Companies Act 2006 and all applicable UK accounting when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset standards.
The principal accounting policies have been applied to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments consistently throughout the year.
B Foreign currency translation b Share based compensation The functional currency of the Company is US Dollars.
Foreign currency The Company operated various equity-settled, share based transactions are translated into the functional currency using the compensation plans during the year.
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such No expense is recognized in respect of share options granted before transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of 7 November 2002 and vested before 1 January 2005.
For shares or monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are share options granted after 7 November 2002 and vested after recognized in the profit and loss account.
1 January 2005 the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares or options is recognized as an C Investments in subsidiaries expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost less any accumulated determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or options impairment losses.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
D Called up share capital, share premium and dividend At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of distribution the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly recognizes the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity the profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
over the remaining vesting period.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognized as The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
The fair value of employee services received, dividends are recognized when declared.
measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognized over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary E Taxation undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent Corporation tax is payable on taxable profits at amounts expected entity accounts.
to be paid, or recovered, under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, Deferred tax is recognized to take account of timing differences and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
between the treatment of transactions for financial reporting purposes and their treatment for tax purposes.
A deferred tax asset is only The shares are recognized when the options are exercised and the recognized when it is regarded as more likely than not that there proceeds received allocated between called up share capital and will be a suitable taxable profit from which the future reversal of share premium account.
the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
G Financial instruments Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to The accounting policy of the Company for financial instruments apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to is the same as that shown in the Group accounting policies.
This reverse based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or policy is in accordance with FRS 26, Financial Instruments Recognition substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is and Measurement.
114 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
