Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Audit committee continued The board recognizes the need to understand and control the variety Financial information from subsidiaries is always reviewed for of risks to which the Group is exposed.
During the year, in order to accuracy by internal review and externally audited where address this on behalf of the board, the committee oversaw the required: and executive managements risk management activities.
The executive management took responsibility for regular evaluation of generic and The consolidated financial statements are completed in accordance specific risks within the business and the implementation of mitigation with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS plans to address them.
Interpretations committee, and the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups business objectives and according to current market and economic There have been no significant changes in the Companys internal issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational risks is control over financial reporting during the year under review that have the responsibility of the board and executive management respectively.
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the The risk process has been in place for the year under review and is up Companys control over financial reporting.
As a result of the India to date at the time of this report.
issue, the Company has improved its controls over revenue in high risk countries.
The committee considers any significant control matters raised in reports from management and by the internal and external auditors.
The board, with advice from the committee, is satisfied that an Itthen reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are effective system of internal control and risk management processes identified, the committee requires appropriate action to be taken by are in place which enable the Company to identify, evaluate and management and may request internal audit to perform a specific manage keys risks and which accord with the guidance of the review into these areas if required.
Turnbull guidance on internal control updated by the FRC in 2005.
These processes have been in place since the start of the financial year Financial reporting up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Further details on the risks In addition to the general internal controls and risk management faced by the Group are set out on pages 18 and 19. processes described above, the Group also has specific internal controls and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process: Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing policy which forms part of the There are Group policies covering what is reported monthly to Groups Worldwide Code of Conduct and Business Ethics.
This allows the board and the executive committee.
The Groups financial employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The committee receives consistency and visibility of management information to enable the regular reports on any matters that may be raised within the Group.
board and the executive team to review the Groups worldwide operations effectively: Accountability The board is responsible for the preparation of the annual report Cash flows are produced twice monthly by all operations.
These are and accounts which taken as a whole are fair, balanced and reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash understandable and provides the information necessary for management by the Group: shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
As set out in the Directors Report, the Management representations covering compliance with Group directors consider the Companys business is a going concern.
policies and the accuracy of financial information are collected on a quarterly basis: All the major trading entities completed a self-assessment on the effectiveness of their internal control environment: The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting David Maloney of financial information from the individual financial statements Chairman of the Audit committee of Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiary undertakings 18 June 2014 to prepare consolidated financial statements that present financial information for the Group as a single economic entity.
Note 1, Group accounting policies, sets out the basis of preparation and consolidation, including the elimination of inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains between Group companies: 36 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
