Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes We have invested significantly in the product line to ensure relevance Operational strategy to deliver our core objective to key market growth areas, specifically: agile development, cloud Operational excellence based service delivery models, and the rapid adoption of mobile Micro Focus has set out to be the most effective company at devices as a business technology platform.
The product strategy managing a portfolio of mature infrastructure software products.
reflects both these growth opportunities and a continued commitment This shows through in our industry leading EBITDA margins and our to the success of our existing customers, informed through direct strong cash conversion.
We believe that our proven ability to execute customer feedback and independent market research.
As a result, not only delivers significant amounts of cash and consequently great our product portfolio is better positioned and stronger and our flexibility, but also a competitive advantage in the acquisition of customer engagement more effective enabling the delivery of organic other similar assets.
We also completed the acquisition of AccuRev Inc. in December 2013, which extended the portfolio further and improved The outputs of our portfolio focus and operational strategy are: our execution capability enabling coverage of more of the market opportunity and offering a compelling value-add for existing 1.
Revenue growth: customers of both companies.
Operating leverage: and Borlands products Silk, Caliber, StarTeam and AccuRev have a large addressable market, clear product roadmaps and differentiated 3.
customer propositions in their own right, in addition to a compelling value proposition based on the increasingly tight integrations between Our key areas of operational focus in order to deliver single digit the products.
As an example of the individual product standard, Micro revenue growth to achieve our core objective are Go to Market Focus was again placed in the leaders quadrant of the 2013 Gartner including indirect channels, Product Development and Financial Magic Quadrant for Integrated Quality Suites.
The challenge for our Borland portfolio is the balance between Go to Market sales enablement, marketing and Licence and Maintenance income within overall revenues where sales productivity Maintenance accounts for approximately 65% of total like for like During 2012 and 2013 we made good progress on our product revenues 2013: CCY 69%.
We are fully aware of this dynamic and strategy, direction and underlying roadmap, started adjusting our during 2014 have reduced the drag on total revenues by increasing Go to Market structures including our channel strategy, marketing Licence sales.
This is set to improve further as we release additional and lead generation execution capability.
new products to extend our market presence, and continually innovate to support the ever-changing needs of our existing customers and the In 2014 we began to reskill our sales force through improved growing available market beyond.
training and sales effectiveness tools, started to pilot activity based compensation in our field organization and launched our first Sales CORBA 10.8% of revenues Academy.
This major initiative involved hiring over 50 graduate sales Following the purchase of the CORBA assets from Progress Software trainees across our International and North America regions.
Having in February 2013 we have further strengthened our position in this completed training 22 of the graduates assumed direct sales roles for product portfolio by buying the CORBA assets from PrismTech Group the second half of the year ended 30 April 2014 with a further 18 Limited in November 2013.
As a result we have seen significant revenue assuming overlay roles.
The 22 direct sales contributed $4.8m of growth.
We now own the three leading CORBA products: Visibroker, Licence revenue with six being in the top 25 inside sales performers Orbix and OpenFusion as well as the Orbacus mainframe product.
Our direct investment in the academy in the year ended These products provide excellent functionality and performance to 30 April 2014 was $3.5m on which we have achieved a financial return companies with installed networks with a requirement for high speed, within the year as well as enabling us to reduce the average age and secure transfer of data between systems.
average cost of our sales force.
Following on from this we have already commenced an academy for the year ended 30 April 2015 recruiting Niche 2.8% of revenues 30 graduates who will start on 30 June 2014.
We are also introducing Our Niche portfolio comprises mature products that are expected a development academy for the first time and are hiring 16 graduate to see on-going revenue decline but that provide good margins and level trainees in development.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
