Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Corporate governance Audit committee continued A close relationship between revenue recognition and cash collection income is currently small as the capitalization of cost in the year is is a good indicator of solid revenue recognition policies and the Group the same as amortization of previously capitalized costs.
The net has a very satisfactory cash conversion ratio, low level of days sales book value of development costs at the end of the year was $31.5m.
outstanding and bad debt provision.
At the half year the Company restated prior year revenues for a misstatement of revenues in its The committee considered the method of testing for potential Indian Sales Channel.
This was an unusual situation as most of the impairment used by management and the reasonableness of revenue recognized by the Company had been received in cash.
The committee addressed this through committee appointed the forensic department of KPMG to undertake consideration of a report from management covering these areas and a full investigation that provided comfort that this was an isolated detailing both the capitalization and amortization processes applied incident.
The report identified areas of risk that could exist in higher and the new expenditure that was capitalized.
It also looked at the risk countries and following their report, management has levels that were capitalized in relation to Licence revenue generated implemented stronger controls in these countries in order to minimise and capitalized costs as a percentage of the total research and the risk of any reoccurrence.
development costs of the Group in the year and also in relation to prior years.
Following a review during the year of the process by KPMG, All monies have been repaid to the affected customers partners of management implemented some improvements.
The external auditors Micro Focus and this matter is now closed.
Management reported looked at these improvements and observed that there had been an to the committee that they were not aware of any other revenue improvement since the KPMG review.
The committee concluded that reporting irregularities similar to those in India.
Management proposed the assumptions made by management were reasonable and the to the committee that, due to the material qualitative impact on the carrying value of capitalized development costs was appropriate.
relative revenue performance, the financial statements for prior years be restated.
The committee considered the proposal and concluded Assessment of effectiveness of external audit that a restatement was the correct action and also agreed on the The committee reviewed the performance of the external auditors relevant disclosures in the financial statements.
taking into account the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and amendments to it, input from management, responses to questions On the basis of the above the committee concluded that the Groups from the committee and audit findings reported to the committee.
As part of this process the committee reviewed the feedback from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection of Tax provisions  LLP, issued by the FRC in May 2014.
As set out on page 14 the Group has had lower cash than the consolidated statement of comprehensive income tax rate due to Based on this information the committee concluded that the external an on-going claim with HMRC.
The Group also has a number of tax audit process was operating effectively and PwC continued to prove provisions and deferred tax assets that are subject to a degree of effective in their role as external auditor.
judgement in determining the value in the financial statements.
Independence and objectivity of the external auditors The committee ensures that the internal tax team has sufficient The committee has developed a policy designed to ensure that the resources to address these areas and received detailed updates on the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised by it tax provisions included in the Annual and Interim Reports.
The Group undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
predominantly uses Deloitte as tax advisors to the Group and the lead partner attends committee meetings so that the committee has The current external auditors, PwC, have been auditors since adequate opportunity to discuss and test the assumptions reflected in Micro Focus became a UK listed company in 2005 at which time the financial statements.
they were also the tax advisors to the Group.
In 2008 Micro Focus appointed Deloitte as principal tax advisors for the Group and they On the basis of the above the committee concluded that the Groups remain in that position today.
The external audit has not been formally tax provisions are appropriate.
tendered in the period since Micro Focus became a listed company.
Capitalization of development costs The committee approves all significant non-audit work greater than The costs incurred on development projects relating to developing 25,000 commissioned from the external auditors.
During the year new computer software programmes and significant enhancement the fees paid to the auditor were $786,000 2013: $825,000 for audit of existing computer software programmes are recognized as services and $560,000 2013: $214,000 for non-audit services.
The intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, majority of the non-audit services provided by the auditors were in considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can respect of the Return of Value $64,000 and financial due diligence be measured reliably.
The costs are written off to the consolidated work on one acquisition and one aborted acquisition $472,000.
The statement of comprehensive income for a period of three years committee concluded that it was in the interests of the Group to use from the point that the product is generally available.
This results the auditors for this work as they were considered to be best placed in significant amount of costs being capitalized each year although to provide these services.
Auditor objectivity was safeguarded by the the overall impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive committee considering several factors: the standing and experience of 34 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
