Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 continued 9 Goodwill continued Summary of results During the year, all goodwill was tested for impairment, with no impairment charge resulting 2013: nil.
As the VIU calculation is most sensitive to a change in the long-term operating margin, the directors are of the opinion that it would take a systematic change to the market for long-term operating margins to fall to the level where an impairment would be required.
The directors consider that a reduction of 4.0% 2013: 4.0% in the absolute value of long-term operating margins across all CGUs would be the limit of what could be considered to be reasonably possible on the basis that the Groups cost base is flexible and could quickly respond to market changes.
The Group is spread across a range of geographies and sectors and also offers customer cost saving solutions, which help to insulate it from more significant changes.
If the long-term margins used in the VIU calculations for all CGUs were 4.0% 2013: 4.0% lower in absolute terms than managements estimates, the Group would not have any impairment charge.
If the operating margins remain in perpetuity at the current year levels then there would also not be any impairment charge.
The Group bases its estimate for the long-term pre-tax discount rate on its weighted average cost of capital WACC using long-term market data and industry data to derive the appropriate inputs to the calculation.
The directors have assessed that a 2.0% 2013: 2.0% change in the absolute discount rate is the maximum change that could be considered as reasonably possible and this would represent a 23.2% 2013: 12.0% reduction in the assumption.
If the estimated pre-tax discount rates applied to the discounted cash flows of all CGUs were 2.0% 2013: 2.0% higher in absolute terms than the managements estimates, the Group would not have any impairment charge.
The Group considers that the long-term growth rates could change and that a 1.0% 2013: 1.0% change is reasonably possible.
If the absolute value of the long-term growth used in the VIU calculations for all CGUs were 1% lower than managements estimates, the Group would not have recognized any goodwill impairment charge.
The directors have considered combinations of a reduction in the long-term operating margins across all CGUS combined with a reasonably possible increase in the absolute discount rate and a reasonably possible decrease in the long-term growth rates and no impairment would occur in these scenarios.
The medium-term Adjusted EBITDA for each CGU is primarily based upon past performance adjusted as appropriate where management believes that past Adjusted EBITDA margins are not indicative of future Adjusted EBITDA margins.
The medium-term Adjusted EBITDA margins applied to each CGU is 44.0% 2013: 42.5%.
The medium-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed to be 4.0% for each CGU 2013: 4.0%.
Intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life see Group accounting policy H d. The additions to Technology and Customer Relationships in the year relate to the acquisitions of SoforTe GmbH, the OpenFusion CORBA assets from PrismTech Group Limited and AccuRev Inc. note 33.
In the year ended 30 April 2013, the additions to Technology and Customer Relationships in the year relate to the acquisition of the Iona business note 33.
At 30 April 2014, the unamortized lives of technology assets were in the range of three to seven years and for customer relationships in the range of two to eight years.
Amortization of $9.2m 2013: $7.6m is included in selling and distribution costs, $28.2m 2013: $26.9m is included in research and development expense and $0.6m 2013: $0.6m is included in administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87
