Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes V Fixed asset investments continued Country of Company name incorporation Principal activities Micro Focus Group Limited UK Holding company Micro Focus AS Norway Sale and support of software Micro Focus Canada Limited Canada Sale and support of software Micro Focus GmbH Germany Sale and support of software Micro Focus Holdings Limited UK Holding company Micro Focus India Private Limited India Sale and support of software Micro Focus IP Limited UK Holding company Micro Focus Israel Limited Israel Development and support of software Micro Focus IP Development Limited UK Development, sale and support of software Micro Focus KK Japan Sale and support of software Micro Focus Limited UK Development, sale and support of software Micro Focus NV Belgium Sale and support of software Micro Focus NV Netherlands Sale and support of software Micro Focus Pte Limited Singapore Sale and support of software Micro Focus Pty Limited Australia Sale and support of software Micro Focus APM Solutions EOOD Bulgaria Development of software Micro Focus SAS France Sale and support of software Micro Focus SL Spain Sale and support of software Micro Focus Srl Italy Sale and support of software Micro Focus US Inc. USA Holding company, development, sale and support of software Micro Focus US Group Inc. USA Holding company Micro Focus US Holdings UK Holding company AccuRev Inc. USA Sale and support of software SoforTe GmbH Germany Development, sale and support of software Borland BV Netherlands Sale and support of software Borland Co. Limited Japan Sale and support of software Borland Entwicklung GmbH Austria Development of software Borland France Sarl France Sale and support of software Borland GmbH Germany Sale and support of software Borland Latin America Ltda Brazil Sale and support of software Borland Software Corporation USA Development, sale and support of software Borland Srl Italy Sale and support of software Borland UK Limited UK Sale and support of software These companies operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Bulgaria and SoforTe GmbH have a financial year end of 31 December.
Our subsidiaries in India have an accounting year end of 31 March.
These are due to historic reasons and were their year end on acquisition.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The directors consider that the above shows the principal subsidiaries but that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates at 30 April 2014 will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
VI Debtors 2014 2013 $000 $000 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 346,464 552,871 Other debtors 995 14 Prepayments 86 104 Total 347,545 552,989 The amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117
