Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy The Companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors Terms of reference and their direct reports is established by the committee and approved The committee is responsible for reviewing remuneration by the board.
The individual remuneration package of each executive arrangements for members of the board and for providing general director is determined by the committee.
No executive director or guidance on aspects of remuneration policy throughout the Group.
employee participates in discussions relating to the setting of their Its terms of reference include the following: own remuneration.
To determine and agree with the board the framework or broad The objective of the Groups remuneration policies is that all policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, Chief employees, including executive directors, should receive appropriate Executive and other executive directors, the Company Secretary and remuneration for their performance, responsibility, skills and other members of the executive management team as appointed experience.
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group from time to time : to attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they are motivated to achieve To determine the total individual remuneration package of each the highest level of Group performance in line with the best interests executive director and other senior executives including bonuses, of shareholders.
incentive payments, share options and any other share awards: Policies on remuneration take account of the pay structure, To determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements employment conditions and relativities within the Group and also for each executive director and other senior executives: the industry sector.
It also takes into consideration that individuals may have different levels of experience, capability, and market demand To approve the framework of salaries for senior managers, for their services.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes appropriate to each executive director, the committee considers operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments: benchmark remuneration data for selected comparable technology companies as well as a broader group of companies of a similar size To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by to the Company.
the board and shareholders: It is intended that a significant proportion of remuneration will To oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures continue to be performance-related.
Conditions for  the Company or Group: and related bonuses and long-term incentives, i. e. Underlying Adjusted EBITDA and EPS respectively, will represent challenging targets which To review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the are designed to increase shareholder value and are linked to the remuneration policy.
Companys financial and operational strategy.
The committee will review the performance conditions annually to ensure that they The terms of reference of the committee are available from remain demanding and appropriate.
the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website www.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the committee will ensure that The table below sets out the remuneration policy that we intend the incentive structure for executive directors and senior management to apply, subject to shareholder approval on, 25 September 2014 will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by the date of the forthcoming AGM.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying the committee, which prevents it from taking into account corporate awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over governance on ESG matters.
shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
40 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
