Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration The following section provides the details of how the remuneration Agenda during the year ended 30 April 2014 policy was implemented during the year.
The key activities of the committee were as follows: Remuneration committee membership during the year Approved of the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 April 2014 ended 30 April 2014: The committee comprises four independent non-executive directors which we see as fundamental in ensuring executive directors and Reviewed salaries of the executive directors and their reportees: senior executives remuneration is set by people who are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, Reviewed bonus payments and LTIP against targets: in the matters discussed.
The committee met five times during the year under review.
Attendance by individual committee members Determined the pay out under the Executive Chairmans at meetings is detailed below.
appointment award: Membership Number of Conducted annual review and ratification of remuneration throughout meetings packages for executive directors and senior executives, Committee member the year attended incorporating institutional investor feedback: Karen Slatford Chair Yes 5 David Maloney Yes 5 Considered current guidelines on executive compensation Tom Skelton Yes 5 from advisory bodies and institutional investors: Tom Virden Yes 5 Reviewed Group wide pay and benefits: The committee invited the views of each of the Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Human Resources Established targets for annual cash bonuses for the year Director during the year to advise on specific questions raised by ended 30 April 2015: and the committee and on matters relating to the performance and remuneration of senior managers.
They did not participate in Reviewed the performance and terms of reference of the discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Secretary attended each meeting as secretary to the committee.
External advisers The committee has last reviewed their external advisers in 2012 and appointed Kepler Associates Kepler.
Kepler attends committee meetings where appropriate and provides advice on remuneration for executives, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular market and best practice updates.
Kepler reports directly to the committee chair and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Kepler provides no non-remuneration related services to the Company, and is therefore considered independent.
The terms of Keplers engagement are available from the Company Secretary and they are paid on a time and materials fee for projects outside the scope of their retainer.
The committee seeks advice on legal matters from a number of firms as appropriate.
The committee continually assesses on-going advice provided by its advisers on remuneration matters.
The fee incurred with Kepler in the year under review amounted to 41,997.
48 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
