Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Company information Directors Company Secretary, Registrars Kevin Loosemore Registered and Head Office Equiniti Limited Executive Chairman Jane Smithard Aspect House The Lawn Spencer Road Mike Phillips 22-30 Old Bath Road Lancing Chief Financial Officer Newbury West Sussex BN99 6DA Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Stephen Murdoch United Kingdom www.
co. uk Chief Operating Officer www.
com Brokers David Maloney Registered in England number 5134647 Numis Securities Limited Non-executive senior independent The London Stock Exchange Building director and Deputy Chairman Legal advisers 10 Paternoster Square Travers Smith LLP London EC4M 7LT Tom Skelton 10 Snow Hill United Kingdom Non-executive director London EC1A ZAL Karen Slatford United Kingdom Non-executive director Lawrence Graham LLP Tom Virden 4 More London Riverside Non-executive director London SE1 2AU Richard Atkins United Kingdom Non-executive director Independent auditors  LLP 9 Greyfriars Road Reading Berkshire RG1 1JG United Kingdom 124 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this annual report, including those under the captions entitled Executive Chairmans statement, operational and financial review, directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development and deployment applications by organizations: the level of deployment-related revenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organizations adopt web-enabled services: the rate at which large organizations migrate applications from the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth in the information technology services market: general economic and business conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: and the Companys ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.
These forward-looking statements are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Except as required by the Financial Conduct Authority, or by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Design and production: Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
co. uk The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 565200 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 www.
