Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2014 General information The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Micro Focus International plc the Company is a public limited acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments registered office is, The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, RG14 issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, 1QN, UK.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiaries together with costs directly attributable to the acquisition being expensed.
the Group provide innovative software to clients around the world Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities enabling them to dramatically improve the business value of their assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their enterprise applications.
The Group has a presence in 31 countries fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any worldwide and employs approximately 1,200 people.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group consolidated financial statements were authorized for Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on issue by the board of directors on 18 June 2014. transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure I Group accounting policies consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been C Revenue recognition prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial The Group recognizes revenues from sales of software licences, Reporting Standards IFRS, interpretations issued by the IFRS including Intellectual Property and Patent rights, to end-users, Interpretations Committee and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to resellers and Independent Software Vendors ISV upon firm evidence companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements of an arrangement, delivery of the software and determination that have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured.
ISV convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and revenue includes fees based on end usage of ISV applications that liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the have our software embedded in their applications.
When the fees for consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
software upgrades and enhancements, maintenance, consulting and training are bundled with the licence fee, they are unbundled using The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS the Groups objective evidence of the fair value of the elements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires represented by the Groups customary pricing for each element in management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the separate transactions.
If evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of elements and there is no such evidence of fair value established for judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates delivered elements, revenue is first allocated to the elements where are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed fair value has been established and the residual amount is allocated below in II, Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
If evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from the The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
exists or undelivered elements of the arrangement are delivered.
These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented unless stated otherwise.
If the arrangement includes acceptance criteria, revenue is not recognized until the Group can objectively demonstrate that the B Consolidation acceptance criteria has been met, or the acceptance period lapses, The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial whichever is earlier.
The Group recognizes Licence revenue derived statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, from sales to resellers upon delivery to resellers, provided that all other its subsidiaries, prepared at the consolidated statement of financial revenue recognition criteria are met, otherwise revenue is deferred position date.
Control exists where the Company has the power to and recognized upon delivery of the product to the end-user.
Where govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain the Group sells access to a licence for a specified period of time and benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured, from the date on which control passes to the Group.
The results licence revenue is recognised upon delivery, unless future substantive of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which upgrades or similar future performance obligations are committed to, control passes from the Group.
in which case revenue is deferred and recognized rateably over the specified period.
Maintenance revenue is derived from providing technical support and software updates to customers.
Maintenance revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71
