Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2014 General information The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Micro Focus International plc the Company is a public limited acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments registered office is, The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, RG14 issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, 1QN, UK.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiaries together with costs directly attributable to the acquisition being expensed.
the Group provide innovative software to clients around the world Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities enabling them to dramatically improve the business value of their assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their enterprise applications.
The Group has a presence in 31 countries fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any worldwide and employs approximately 1,200 people.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group consolidated financial statements were authorized for Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on issue by the board of directors on 18 June 2014. transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure I Group accounting policies consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been C Revenue recognition prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial The Group recognizes revenues from sales of software licences, Reporting Standards IFRS, interpretations issued by the IFRS including Intellectual Property and Patent rights, to end-users, Interpretations Committee and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to resellers and Independent Software Vendors ISV upon firm evidence companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements of an arrangement, delivery of the software and determination that have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured.
ISV convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and revenue includes fees based on end usage of ISV applications that liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the have our software embedded in their applications.
When the fees for consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
software upgrades and enhancements, maintenance, consulting and training are bundled with the licence fee, they are unbundled using The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS the Groups objective evidence of the fair value of the elements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires represented by the Groups customary pricing for each element in management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the separate transactions.
If evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of elements and there is no such evidence of fair value established for judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates delivered elements, revenue is first allocated to the elements where are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed fair value has been established and the residual amount is allocated below in II, Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
If evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from the The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
exists or undelivered elements of the arrangement are delivered.
These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented unless stated otherwise.
If the arrangement includes acceptance criteria, revenue is not recognized until the Group can objectively demonstrate that the B Consolidation acceptance criteria has been met, or the acceptance period lapses, The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial whichever is earlier.
The Group recognizes Licence revenue derived statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, from sales to resellers upon delivery to resellers, provided that all other its subsidiaries, prepared at the consolidated statement of financial revenue recognition criteria are met, otherwise revenue is deferred position date.
Control exists where the Company has the power to and recognized upon delivery of the product to the end-user.
Where govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain the Group sells access to a licence for a specified period of time and benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured, from the date on which control passes to the Group.
The results licence revenue is recognised upon delivery, unless future substantive of disposed subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which upgrades or similar future performance obligations are committed to, control passes from the Group.
in which case revenue is deferred and recognized rateably over the specified period.
Maintenance revenue is derived from providing technical support and software updates to customers.
Maintenance revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2014 continued contract, which in most cases is one year.
Revenue from consulting and b Share based compensation training services is recognized on a percentage of completion basis as The Group operated various equity-settled, share based compensation the services are performed.
The stage of completion is measured on plans during the year.
the basis of services performed to date as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Amounts collected prior to satisfying the For shares or share options granted after 7 November 2002 and vested above revenue recognition criteria are included in deferred income.
after 1 January 2005 the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares or options is recognized as an Cost of sales includes costs related to the consulting business, expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is helpline support and royalties payable to third parties.
determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or options granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions D Segment reporting about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group Market vesting conditions are taken into account when determining has derived the information for its operating segments using the fair value of the options at grant date.
At each consolidated the information used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the statement of financial position date, the Group revises its estimates Executive Committee.
Operating segments are consistent with those of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
used in internal management reporting and the measure used by the It recognizes the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, Executive Committee is the adjusted operating profit for the Group in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and a as a whole as set out in note 4 and Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Adjusted EBITDA as set out in note 4.
The Group has operating segments relating to the three geographic regions.
The Executive The shares are recognized when the options are exercised and the Committee has delegated responsibilities for directly managed costs proceeds received allocated between ordinary shares and share to the Regional Presidents of the three geographic regions of the premium account.
Group and then allocated centrally managed costs to those regions, consequently for the three operating segments the Group measures Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non transferability, E Exceptional items exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant understanding of the Groups financial performance.
of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Examples of transactions which may be considered of an exceptional nature include major restructuring programmes or cost of integrating G Foreign currency translation acquired businesses.
a Functional and presentation currency The presentation currency of the Group is US dollars.
Items included in F Employee benefit costs the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured a Pension obligations in the functional currency of each entity.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
All of the major schemes are defined contribution plans for which the Group pays b Transactions and balances contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the no further payment obligations once the contributions have been transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the paid.
The contributions are recognized as an employee benefit settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognized as exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future foreign currencies are recognized in the consolidated statement of payments is available.
72 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes c Group companies As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the UK The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have GAAP net book value at 1 May 2004 as the IFRS cost of goodwill at a functional currency different from the presentation currency are transition date.
translated into the presentation currency as follows: b Computer software i Assets and liabilities for each consolidated statement of financial Computer software licences are capitalized on the basis of the costs position presented are translated at the closing rate at the date incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These of that consolidated statement of financial position: costs are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of three to five years.
ii Income and expenses for each consolidated statement of comprehensive income item are translated at average exchange c Research and development rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred.
Costs cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, incurred on development projects relating to the developing of new in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of computer software programmes and significant enhancement of the transactions : and existing computer software programmes are recognized as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, iii All resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can component of equity.
Only direct costs are capitalized which are the software development employee costs.
Development costs previously On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to other subsequent period.
Development costs are amortized from the comprehensive income.
commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit, typically Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a being three years.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate, with the exception for goodwill d Intangible assets arising on business combinations arising before 1 May 2004 which is treated as an asset of the Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at Company and expressed in the Companys functional currency.
Amortization is charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line d Exchange rates basis over the estimated useful life of each intangible asset.
Intangible The most important foreign currencies for the Group are pounds assets are amortized from the date they are available for use.
The sterling, the Euro and Japanese Yen.
The exchange rates used are estimated useful lives will vary for each category of asset acquired and as follows: to date are as follows: 2014 2013 Average Closing Average Closing Purchased software Three to five years 1 $ 1.60 1.68 1.57 1.55 Development costs Three years 1 $ 1.35 1.38 1.29 1.31 Trade names Three years 100 Yen $ 0.81 0.97 0.84 0.98 Technology Five to ten years H Intangible assets Customer relationships Two to ten years a Goodwill Non-compete agreements Three to five years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those cashgenerating units represents the Groups investment in each area of operation by each primary reporting segment.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2014 continued I Property, plant and equipment K Inventories All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Historical cost includes The cost of finished goods comprises software for resale and expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable selling expenses.
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other When work has been performed and the revenue is not yet repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to the consolidated recognized, the direct costs of third party contractors and staff will statement of comprehensive income during the financial year in which be treated as work in progress where the probability of invoicing and they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line evidence of collectability can be demonstrated.
method to write off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: L Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost less provisions for impairment.
A provision Land and buildings Thirty years for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is Leasehold improvements Three to ten years objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all Fixtures and fittings Five to seven years amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets Computer equipment One to five years carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
if appropriate, at each consolidated statement of financial position date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its M Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
amount and are included in the consolidated statement of Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities comprehensive income.
in the consolidated statement of financial position.
J Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite N Borrowings useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that are stated at amortized cost with any difference between cost and the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is redemption value being recognized in the consolidated statement of recognized for the amount by which the assets carrying amount comprehensive income over the period of borrowing on an effective exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher interest basis.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest O Leases levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashLeases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and generating units.
Any non-financial assets other than goodwill which rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the impairment at each reporting date.
Assets that are subject to lessor, are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive amortization and depreciation are also reviewed for any possible income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
impairment at each reporting date.
P Taxation Current and deferred tax are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with directly in equity.
74 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on S Provisions temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Provisions for onerous leases, restructuring costs and legal claims liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither has been reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been are not recognized for future operating losses.
enacted or substantially enacted by the consolidated statement of financial position date and are expected to apply when the related Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognized even if the it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the the temporary differences can be utilized.
same class of obligations may be small.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as an interest expense.
Current tax is recognized based on the amounts expected to be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or T Adoption of new and revised International Financial substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial Reporting Standards position date.
The accounting policies adopted in these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those of the annual financial statements Q Ordinary shares, share premium and dividend distribution for the year ended 30 April 2013, with the exception of the following Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standards, amendments to or interpretations of published standards options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the adopted during the year: proceeds.
a The following standards, interpretations and amendments to Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognized existing standards are now effective and have been adopted by as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the Group: the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognized when they are paid.
Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities for periods R Financial instruments and hedge accounting beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This amendment includes Financial assets and liabilities are recognized in the Groups consolidated new disclosures to aid comparison between those entities that statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party prepare IFRS financial statements to those that prepare their to the contractual provision of the instrument.
Trade receivables are financial statements according to US GAAP.
non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value less the amount of any appropriate provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Amendment to IAS 12, Income Taxes applies for periods beginning are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not typically Amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, for periods beginning hold or issue derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting on or after 1 January 2013.
These amendments eliminate the or trading purposes.
corridor approach and calculate finance costs on a net funding basis.
Amendment to IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements applies for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and establishes principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities.
It defines the principle of control and establishes controls as the basis for consolidation.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2014 continued IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement applies for periods beginning II Critical accounting estimates and assumptions on or after 1 January 2013 and aims to improve consistency In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of made its best estimates and judgements of certain amounts included fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality.
The Group regularly reviews these estimates and updates them as required.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Unless b The following standards, interpretations and amendments to otherwise indicated, the Group does not believe that it is likely existing standards are not yet effective, or have not yet been that materially different amounts would be reported related to the endorsed by the EU and have not been adopted early by the Group: accounting estimates and assumptions described below.
The Group considers the following to be a description of the most significant IFRS 9, Financial Instruments for periods beginning on or after estimates, which require the Group to make subjective and complex 1 January 2018 and is the first standard issued as part of a process judgements, and matters that are inherently uncertain.
It simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes two primary measurement categories for financial a Impairment of goodwill assets, amortized cost and fair value.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the Group accounting policy J.
The recoverable Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation applies amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and clarifies some value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial Details of the Groups impairment review and sensitivities to changes liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
in assumptions are disclosed in note 9.
Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets applies to periods b Income taxes beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and relates to the disclosure The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognizes liabilities and Measurement applies to periods beginning on or after for anticipated settlement of tax issues based on estimates of whether 1 January 2014 and provides relief from discontinuing hedge additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these accounting when novation of a hedging instrument to a central matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, counter party meets certain criteria.
such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements applies to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and provides for a more realistic reflection The Group carries appropriate provision, based on best estimates, of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations until tax computations are agreed with the taxation authorities.
of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
c Acquisitions IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities applies for periods When making acquisitions, the Group has to make judgements and beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and includes the disclosure best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including Where acquisitions are significant, appropriate advice is sought from joint arrangements, associates, special purchase vehicles and other professional advisors before making such allocations otherwise vehicles off the consolidated statement of financial position.
valuations are done by management using consistent methodology used on prior year acquisitions where appropriate professional IFRS 15, Revenue From Contracts With Customers Issued applies advice was sought.
The valuation of goodwill and other intangibles for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and specifies how is tested annually or whenever there are changes in circumstances and when revenue is recognized as well as requiring such entities to indicating that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
These provide users of the financial statements with more informative, tests require the use of estimates.
Note 9 gives details of the Groups relevant disclosures.
The directors anticipate that the future introduction of those standards, amendments and interpretations listed above will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
76 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes d Development expenditure b Foreign currency risk The Group invests in the development of future products in The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign accordance with the Group accounting policy H c. The assessment as exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with to whether this expenditure will achieve a complete product for which respect to the UK Sterling, Yen and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk the technical feasibility is assured is a matter of judgement, as is the arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and forecasting of how the product will generate future economic benefit.
liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange Finally, the period of time over which the economic benefit associated risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets with the expenditure occurred will arise is also a matter of judgement.
and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys These judgements are made by evaluating the development plan functional currency.
prepared by the research and development department and approved by management, regularly monitoring progress by using an established There were no hedging transactions in place at 30 April 2014. set of criteria for assessing technical feasibility and benchmarking to other products.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
e Revenue recognition The key area of judgement in respect of recognizing revenue is the c Interest rate risk timing of recognition, specifically in relation to recognition and deferral The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially of revenue on support contracts where management assumptions and independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from short-term borrowings.
III Financial risk factors Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow The Groups multi-national operations expose it to a variety of financial interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
risks that include the effects of changes in credit risk, foreign currency The Group does not use interest rate swaps to manage its cash flow risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management is carried out interest rate risk at the present time due to low market rates.
by a central treasury department under policies approved by the board of directors.
Group treasury identifies and evaluates financial risks d Liquidity risk alongside the Groups operating units.
The board provides written Central treasury carries out cash flow forecasting for the Group to principles for risk management together with specific policies covering ensure that it has sufficient cash to meet operational requirements and areas such as foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and to allow the repayment of the bank facility.
liquidity risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments as appropriate, and investment of excess funds.
Surplus cash in the operating units over and above what is required for working capital needs is transferred to Group treasury.
These funds are In accordance with the treasury policy, the Group does not typically used to repay bank borrowings or invested in interest bearing current hold or issue derivative financial instruments.
accounts, time deposits or money market deposits of the appropriate maturity period determined by consolidated cash forecasts.
a Credit risk Financial instruments which potentially expose the Group to a Trade payables arise in the normal course of business and are all concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash current.
Cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group provides Borrowings relate to our unsecured $420m bank facility see note 16. credit to customers in the normal course of business.
Collateral is The balance is considered current as it is a revolving credit facility not required for those receivables, but ongoing credit evaluations of renewable each month.
customers financial conditions are performed.
The Group maintains a provision for impairment based upon the expected collectability of Onerous lease provisions are expected to mature between less than accounts receivable.
The Group sells products and services to a wide 12 months and five years.
range of customers around the world and therefore believes there is no material concentration of credit risk.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
