Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Additional information and notes and notes All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the Statutory and other disclosures Group will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or Greenhouse gas emissions others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions status, race, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are Disabled employees contained in the corporate social responsibility report on pages With regard to existing employees and those who may become 20 to 24. disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and Financial instruments to provide training and career development, including promotion, The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of wherever appropriate.
financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 21 Employee involvement to the financial statements.
The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to Research and development assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors capitalizes development expenditure from the point that all the to all employees, together with briefings throughout the year, are part relevant criteria are met.
The capitalized cost is then amortized of the communication and consultation programme.
The programme over the useful life of the software.
During the year to 30 April 2014, is designed to provide employees with awareness of the financial and $57.8m was charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
income 2013: $52.6m in respect of research and development expenditure.
This charge is after net amortization of development In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both expenditure of approximately $nil 2013: net capitalization credit to raise issues and to assist with the two-way flow of information.
of $1.7m consisting of $18.4m 2013: $20.0m of capitalized The Group also has an online process which enables employees to development expenditure offset by $18.5m 2013: $18.4m of express views and suggest improvements.
amortization of previously capitalized development expenditure.
Further education and training Political donations Continuing education, training and development are important to The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to political ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports individuals parties 2013: $nil.
who wish to obtain relevant and appropriate further education qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Share capital Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the annual The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 13 and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training plan is ordinary shares of 13 24 pence each.
In November 2013 a Return agreed as part of each individuals on-going development.
of Value was made to all shareholders amounting to $140.2m in cash 60 pence per share, by way of a D share scheme, which gave At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors shareholders other than certain overseas shareholders a choice are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes of between receiving the cash in the form of income or capital.
The practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of the Return of Value was accompanied by a 12 for 13 share consolidation Groups business.
Where appropriate the directors are provided with to maintain broad comparability of the share price and return per share copies of the underlying documentation and or written summaries of of the ordinary shares before and after the creation of the D shares, the principal changes.
further details of which can be found in note 24.
Shares held in treasury were consolidated in the same way as all other shares.
The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the During the year 1,663,648 shares were transferred out of treasury evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share plans.
Further information with regard to the evaluation can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 28 to 31.
The evaluation included an assessment of directors training and development requirements.
Share option schemes The directors remain committed to the principle that selected employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups share based compensation schemes are given in note 28.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
