Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Selection of performance measures What discretions are retained by the committee in operating The Companys core objective is to continue to deliver shareholder its incentive plans?
returns of 15% to 20% per annum over the long-term.
The The committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP according to committee continues to believe that a combination of Underlying their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with Adjusted EBITDA, Revenue Growth, Cash flow, EPS and Total the Listing Rules where relevant.
The committee retains discretion, Shareholder Return remain the most appropriate measures of consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the long-term performance of the Company.
The performance measures operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but used under the annual bonus are selected annually to help the Group are not limited to, the following in relation to the LTIP: achieve its core objective.
The annual bonus plan is currently linked to growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
Vesting of LTIP awards is The participants: the timing of grant of an award: the size of currently linked to growth in EPS as the committee believes that this an award subject to maximums set out in the policy table: aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value, which together the determination of vesting: with the annual bonus metrics provide a strong line of sight for the executives and supports the long-term strategy.
Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the economic Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of environment in which the Group operates.
the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Remuneration policy for other employees Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and consistent principles to those for executive directors.
Salary reviews take into account Group performance, local pay and market conditions The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
non-commission employees participate in a bonus scheme which operates on the same metrics for all levels in the Company from In relation to the annual bonus plan, the committee retains entry level employees to executive directors.
discretion over: Around 100 of our senior managers and other key employees The participants: the determination of the bonus payment: the also receive LTIP awards.
Performance conditions are consistent for timing of payment: dealing with a change of control: all participants, while award sizes vary by individual.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the all-employee share plans on the Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of same terms.
the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: and All of our UK employees are able to participate in our Flexible The annual review of performance measures and weighting, Benefits programme.
and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, the committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards granted to existing executive directors are set out on page 56 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
44 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
