Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Directors report continued Rights and obligations attaching to shares certificates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certificates Voting in a general meeting of the Company: have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether On a show of hands, every member present in person and every fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and to the Articles and the CREST Rules as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any class of have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
shares in the Company to be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares to be transferred by means No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class of a relevant system.
meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Repurchase of shares Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held on 26 September 2013 to buy back up to 14.99% of issued share capital.
Deadlines for voting rights At that time this amounted to 22,395,015 ordinary shares, and the Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of authority remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM the resolutions to be considered at the annual general meeting on 25 September 2014.
The minimum price which must be paid for 13 the AGM to be held on 25 September 2014 are set out in the Notice such shares is now 13 24 pence and the maximum price which may of Meeting which accompanies this report.
be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Dividends and distributions Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and ii but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
the higher of the price of the last independent trade of any Ordinary The board may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate dividend Share and the highest current bid for an Ordinary Share as stipulated whenever the profits of the Company, in the opinion of the board, by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
for buyback programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments 2273 2003.
Following the Return of Value and associated share Transfer of shares consolidation the limit on the number of shares to be purchased Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or is 20,672,321. her certified shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board Amendment to the Articles may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the to register any instrument of transfer of a certified share which is not a provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted to the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion Appointment and replacement of directors may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares Directors shall be no less than three and no more than eleven in of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer relating to shares resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds in certificated form unless it is in respect of only one class of share and office only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election or is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Office accompanied re-election by the shareholders annually thereafter.
by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the transfer or The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certificated form by a may revoke or terminate any such employment.
recognized clearing house or a nominee of a recognized clearing house or of a recognized investment exchange the lodgement of share 60 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
