Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Reporting entity Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH67AF, United Kingdom.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 9 February 2015.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties and, from 1January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale which are stated at their fair values.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies operating profit and other operating income and expense.
This is in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
The financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as required by EU law IAS Regulation EC1606 2002.
Details of the Groups accounting policies, including changes during the year, are included below.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Interests in equity-accounted investees The Groups interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in joint-ventures and associates.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint-venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Interests in joint-ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 84 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.2 Changes in accounting policies The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014, in line with their effective dates: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The nature and effects of the changes are explained below.
i Subsidiaries As a result of IFRS 10, the Group has changed its accounting policy for determining whether it has control over and consequently whether it consolidates its investees.
IFRS 10 introduces a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, the Group reassessed the control conclusion for its investees at 1 January 2014.
As a consequence, the Group has changed its control conclusion in respect of its investment in CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, which was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method.
Although the Group owns less than half of the voting power of the investee, management has determined that, under IFRS10, the Group has had control over the investee since its inception.
This is because a subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited acts as REIT Manager with its fees having a performance-based element.
Accordingly, the Group applied acquisition accounting to the investment from the year it was first established in 2006, and restated the relevant amounts as if the investee had been consolidated from that year.
The quantitative impact of the change is set out in iv below.
ii Joint arrangements Under IFRS 11, the Group has to classify its interests in joint arrangements as either joint operations if the Group has rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to an arrangement or joint ventures if the Group has rights only to the net assets of an arrangement.
When making the assessment, the Group considered the structure of the arrangements, the legal form of any separate vehicles, the contractual terms of the arrangements and other facts and circumstances.
Previously, the structure of the arrangement was the sole focus of classification.
The Group has re-evaluated its involvement in its joint arrangements and has retained its classification as joint-ventures.
The investments continue to be recognised by applying the equity method and there has been no impact on the recognised assets, liabilities and comprehensive income of the Group.
iii Disclosure of interests in other entities As a result of IFRS 12, the Group has expanded its disclosures about its interests in subsidiaries see Note 34 and equity-accounted investees see Note 15 iv Summary of quantitative impacts The following tables summarise the impacts of the above changes on the Groups financial position, comprehensive income and cash flows.
The impacts relate to the consolidation of an additional subsidiary.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, and has not included in the following tables the impact of consolidating the additional subsidiary on the Groups financial position, comprehensive income and cash flows as at and for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 85 Consolidated statement of financial position 1 January 2013 Impact of changes in accounting policy As previously reported IFRS 10 As restated m m m Property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment 2,096 377 2,473 Investment properties 169 223 392 Investment in and loans to joint ventures and associates 469 247 222 Other financial assets 8 4 4 Non-current assets 2,742 349 3,091 Current assets excluding cash 264 6 270 Provisions and other liabilities excluding interest bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 467 108 359 Net cash debt 52 230 178 Deferred tax liabilities 228 4 232 Net assets 2,363 229 2,592 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,176 117 2,059 Non-controlling interests 187 346 533 Total equity 2,363 229 2,592 31 December 2013 Impact of changes in accounting policy As previously reported IFRS 10 As restated m m m Property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment 2,064 393 2,457 Investment properties 164 250 414 Investment in joint ventures and associates 441 238 203 Other financial assets 8 3 5 Non-current assets 2,677 402 3,079 Current assets excluding cash 255 4 259 Provisions and other liabilities excluding interest bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 341 105 236 Net cash debt 81 296 215 Deferred tax liabilities 203 5 208 Net assets 2,469 210 2,679 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,290 114 2,176 Non-controlling interests 179 324 503 Total equity 2,469 210 2,679 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 86 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2013 Impact of changes in accounting policy As previously reported IFRS 10 As restated m m m Revenue 1,037 27 1,064 Cost of sales 450 7 457 Gross profit 587 20 607 Administrative expenses 347 34 313 Other operating income 12 11 23 Other operating expense 21 2 23 Operating profit 231 63 294 Share of profit of joint-ventures and associates 38 24 14 Net finance expense 5 8 13 Profit before tax 264 31 295 Income tax expense 29 1 30 Profit for the year 235 30 265 Items that are not reclassified subsequently to income statement 1 1 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement 81 13 94 Total comprehensive income for the year 153 17 170 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2013 Impact of changes in accounting policy As previously reported IFRS 10 As restated m m m Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 379 39 418 Net cash generated from operating activities 106 54 160 Others 167 60 227 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 318 33 351 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies Except for the changes explained in Note 2.2, the Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and identifiable net asset acquired are measured at the acquisition date fair value.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 87 If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at that date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and are allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
B Foreign currency i Foreign currency translation The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
C Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value: any directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 88 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued D Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the above policy, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
E Property, plant and equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP were measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004 being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS.
ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Software up to 8 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 89 iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, were stated at their deemed costs as at 1January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
F Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income, are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium The Group makes and receives initial payments on entering both into long and short leases of land and buildings.
Where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating.
On the statement of financial position, financial lease payment attributable to the land is recorded as property, plant and equipment and for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase or lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
G Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 90 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
H Investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
In limited circumstances, the determination of fair value is uncertain, and these properties are carried at cost.
Impairment analysis over these properties is carried out annually.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
I Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
They are held for sale in the short term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
Borrowing costs payable on loans funding a development property are also capitalised, on a specific identification basis, as part of the cost of the development property until the completion of development.
Payments received from purchasers arising from pre-sales of the property units prior to the completion are included as deferred income under other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
M Income tax Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 91 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
N Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
The Group recognises remeasurement gains and losses within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liabilities asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions The share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in Note 23.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 92 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for thecancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Allcancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in Note 11.
O Provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Further details on provisions are given in Note24.
P Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: Income from property rental recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Development property sales recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is usually when legal title transfers depending on jurisdictions.
The trigger for revenue recognition depends on the laws within each jurisdiction.
In 2013, the Glyndebourne development sales were recognised on the receipt of the temporary occupation permit, as this is the point at which the risks and rewards of ownership passed to the buyers.
Q Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the periodin which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 93 R Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Thesegments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in Note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COOs.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as thosethat can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
S Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on adisposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised inexcess of any cumulative impairment loss.
T Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within otherfinancial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less any impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
U Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements Management has discussed with the Audit & Risk Committee the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from othersources.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 94 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Keyestimates and judgements have been made in the following areas, of which the most significant are listed first: Asset carrying values Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of assets across the Group where risk of impairment has been identified.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and investment properties, investment in and loans to joint ventures and associates, and development properties.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on future cash flows being receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Where risk of impairment has been identified an impairment review has been performed on property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments and investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates held across the Group on a cash generating basis.
Where appropriate, external evaluations are also undertaken.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rates and appropriate growth rates.
The discount rates used reflect appropriate sensitivities involved in the assessment.
Discount rates used for impaired properties and investment properties are disclosed in Notes 12 and 14.
Investment properties The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.3H.
The Group owns hotel assets which are leased to external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such hotel assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note2.3H.
Where the indicators are such that on balance the Group is shown to be a passive investor, the relevant property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for the fair value change through the income statement as other operating income or expense.
Adoption of IFRS 10 As further explained in Note 2.2, the Group adopted IFRS 10 during 2014.
The most significant test in determining whether a control relationship exists under the Groups previous accounting policy under IAS 27, was whether the Group had a shareholding of over 50%.
One key change in IFRS 10 is a new requirement for an investor to consider whether it has fide facto power over an investee: this is relevant for the decision regarding the treatment of CDLHT which was previously accounted for as an associate under equity accounting.
The new control model is complex and judgement was required in assessing the nature of the relationship between the Group and CDLHT under the new accounting standard.
Business combination The group purchased five hotels during the year.
The Group had to make a judgement whether to account for each acquisition as an asset purchase or a business combination, which results in a different accounting treatment.
In particular, under business combination accounting, goodwill and additional intangible assets may arise and the valuation of acquired assets is complex.
In addition, transaction costs can be capitalised in an asset acquisition, but have to be charged through the income statement for a business combination.
The classification of each acquisition and related accounting is highly judgemental and complex.
Taxation The tax charge for the year is recognised in the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income, according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
The tax charge comprises both current and deferred tax.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement, particularly when tax treatment for certain items cannot be determined until a final resolution.
In addition, recognition of deferred tax assets is judgemental as it depends on expected timing and level of future taxable income.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 95 Provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
Land leases classification The Group holds a number of hotels with leases of land that are determined to have an indefinite economic life.
These are classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
In determining whether the lease of land should be accounted for as a finance or an operating lease, the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 20 to 40.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report Financial performance on pages 24 to 25 and in the key performance indicators on page 23.
In addition, Note 22 of the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and plans for refinancing maturing facilities are under way.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council: Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in Note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management is required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight has been afforded to macro economic factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in Note 23.
Measurement of fair values A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non financial liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
Management reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuations adjustments.
If third party information is used to measure fair values, then management assesses Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 96 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued the evidence obtained from third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS, including the level in their fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified.
Significant valuation issues are reported to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
When measuring fair values, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible.
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuations techniques as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices Ied in Level 1 that are observable for an asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for an asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values is included in Note 14 Investment Properties and Note 23 Employee Benefits.
4 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards and amendments to standards are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2014: however, the Group has not applied the following new or amended standards in preparing these consolidated financial statements, as these have not beeen adopted early.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The Group is assessing the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from implementation of these standards.
5 Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Geographical segments The hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas asfollows: New Y ork Regional US London Rest of Europe including the Middle East Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 97 The segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
The reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and who maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The results of CDLHT have been incorporated within the existing geographical regions.
In addition, CDLHT operations are reviewed separately by its board on a monthly basis.
Segment results 2014 Regional Rest of Rest of Central Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 123 106 125 71 131 152 42 750 Property operations 2 9 1 24 36 REIT 11 16 13 40 Total revenue 123 108 125 71 151 169 79 826 Hotel gross operating profit 35 21 64 18 62 53 17 270 1 Hotel fixed charges 22 16 19 11 2 28 4 102 Hotel operating profit 13 5 45 7 60 25 13 168 Property operating profit loss 1 8 8 15 REIT operating profit loss 3 6 13 16 Central costs 31 31 2 Other operating income 3 16 19 2 Other operating income REIT 5 1 2 8 Operating profit loss 13 4 45 7 73 48 36 31 195 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 10 10 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 6 7 5 3 11 17 2 1 52 3 EBITDA 19 11 50 10 84 75 38 30 257 Less: Depreciation and amortisation 52 Net finance expense 17 Profit before tax 188 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 See Note 7 for details of other operating income and expense.
3 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 98 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restated 2013 Regional Rest of Rest of Central Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue Hotel 106 111 111 69 140 151 43 731 Property operations 2 276 21 299 REIT 14 5 15 34 Total revenue 106 113 111 69 430 156 79 1,064 Hotel gross operating profit 26 19 59 17 67 50 18 256 1 Hotel fixed charges 19 18 15 12 2 26 5 97 Hotel operating profit 7 1 44 5 65 24 13 159 Property operating profit loss 1 141 9 149 REIT operating profit loss 2 5 14 17 Central costs 31 31 2 Other operating income 9 2 11 2 Other operating expense 12 3 6 21 2 Other operating income REIT 1 4 5 10 Operating profit loss 7 12 44 2 214 29 41 31 294 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 14 14 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 6 7 5 3 10 13 2 1 47 3 EBITDA 13 5 49 5 224 56 43 30 355 Less: Depreciation and amortisation 47 Net finance expense 13 Profit before tax 295 1 Hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 99 Segmental assets, liabilities and capital expenditure 2014 Regional Rest of Rest of Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 542 279 502 242 18 654 147 2,384 REIT operating assets 539 128 162 829 Hotel operating liabilities 34 22 34 19 21 59 8 197 REIT operating liabilities 15 3 2 20 Investment in joint ventures and associates 96 96 Total hotel operating net assets 508 257 468 223 521 816 299 3,092 Property operating assets 31 97 102 74 304 Property operating liabilities 1 8 6 4 19 Investment in joint ventures and associates 139 139 Total property operating net assets 30 89 235 70 424 Deferred tax liabilities 221 Income taxes payable 35 Net debt 525 Net assets 2,735 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 100 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restated 2013 Regional Rest of Rest of Total New York US London Europe Singapore Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m Hotel operating assets 339 272 436 191 47 626 145 2,056 REIT operating assets 488 87 163 738 Hotel operating liabilities 12 31 30 16 25 52 7 173 REIT operating liabilities 3 2 5 Investment in joint ventures and associates 87 87 Total hotel operating net assets 327 241 406 175 507 748 299 2,703 Property operating assets 28 182 63 68 341 Property operating liabilities 15 1 2 18 Investment in joint ventures and associates 116 116 Total property operating net assets 28 167 178 66 439 Deferred tax liabilities 208 Income taxes payable 40 Net debt 215 Net assets 2,679 Geographic information Restated 2014 2013 m m Revenue from external customers United States 231 219 United Kingdom 171 156 Singapore 151 430 New Zealand 69 68 Taiwan 50 41 South Korea 46 49 China 23 24 Maldives 16 5 Malaysia 16 18 France 14 15 Australia 9 11 Philippines 6 9 Indonesia 6 7 Germany 5 5 Other 13 7 Total revenue per consolidated income statement 826 1,064 The revenue information above is based on the location of the business.
The 826m 2013: 1,064m revenue is constituted of 750m 2013: 731m of hotel revenue, 36m 2013: 299m of property operations revenue and 40m 2013: 34m of REIT revenue.
The property operations revenue comprises 24m 2013: 21m from New Zealand, 9m 2013: 276m from Singapore and 3m 2013: 2m from other countries.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 101 Restated 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets United States 830 614 United Kingdom 630 564 Singapore 626 600 Taiwan 258 242 China 251 230 New Zealand 190 187 South Korea 175 170 Japan 131 63 Australia 109 112 Maldives 92 85 Hong Kong 79 69 Malaysia 64 64 Italy 56 France 37 40 Philippines 31 29 Indonesia 11 10 Total non-current assets per consolidated statement of financial position 3,570 3,079 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayment, investment properties, investment in joint ventures and associates, loans due from associate and other financialassets.
6 Administrative expenses The following items are included within administrative expenses: Restated 2014 2013 m m a Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, for audit and non-audit services as follows: Auditors remuneration Statutory audit services: Annual audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Audit of subsidiary companies 1 1 2 2 Non-audit related services: Tax advisory 1 1 Total 3 3 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 102 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restated 2014 2013 m m b Impairment Note 7 21 c Repairs and maintenance 39 37 d Depreciation 50 45 e Lease premium amortisation 2 2 f Rental paid payable under operating leases land and buildings 3 3 plant and machinery 4 4 7 Other operating income and expense Restated 2014 2013 Notes m m Other operating income Revaluation gain of investment properties REIT properties a 10 12 Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo a 16 Tanglin Shopping Centre a 3 9 Gain arising on disposal of assets b 2 29 23 Other operating expense Revaluation deficit of investment properties REIT properties a 2 2 Impairment c 21 2 23 a Revaluation gain deficit of investment properties At the end of 2014 and 2013, the Groups investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open-market existing use basis.
Based on these valuations, the revaluation gain or deficit was recorded as considered appropriate by the Directors.
b Gain arising on disposal of assets In 2013, the Group disposed of its investment in India for 3m 350m rupees resulted in a profit of 2m after deducting its book cost of 1m.
c Impairment The Directors undertook their annual review of the carrying value of hotels and property assets for indication of impairment and where appropriate, external valuations were also obtained.
As a result of this review, no impairment charge was made for the year ended 31 December 2014.
For 2013, the total impairment charge was 21m consisting 4m in relation to four Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe, 12m for a hotel in Regional US and 5m in relation to a hotel in Rest of Asia.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 103 8 Personnel expenses Restated 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 278 233 Compulsory social security contributions 37 36 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 11 11 Defined benefit pension cost gain recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 3 1 Defined benefit pension cost recorded in the income statement 2 2 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1 325 284 The average number of employees employed by the Group including Directors during the year analysed by category was as follows: Restated 2014 2013 Number Number Hotel operating staff 7,954 8,009 Management administration 1,253 1,306 Sales and marketing 464 438 Repairs and maintenance 586 600 10,257 10,353 Directors remuneration Restated 2014 2013 m m Remuneration 2 2 Received by the Directors under long-term incentive schemes & pensions 1 2 3 9 Net finance expense Restated 2014 2013 m m Interest income 4 4 Interest receivable from joint ventures and associates 1 1 Foreign exchange gain 2 1 Finance income 7 6 Interest expense 22 17 Foreign exchange loss 2 2 Finance expense 24 19 Net finance expense 17 13 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 104 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense Restated 2014 2013 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge for the year 27 49 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 1 Total current tax expense 31 48 Deferred tax Note 26 Origination and reversal of timing differences 5 8 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 3 3 Benefits of tax losses recognised 1 2 Over provision in respect of prior years 1 5 Total deferred tax expense credit 6 18 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 37 30 UK 10 5 Overseas 27 25 Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement 37 30 For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group recorded a tax expense of 37m 2013: 30m excluding the tax relating to joint ventures and associates, giving rise to an effective tax rate of 20.7% 2013: 10.7%.
The effective tax rate has been affected by a number of factors which include the following items: Other income and expense of the Group: and Tax adjustments in respect of previous years.
Excluding the impact of the items noted above, the Groups underlying effective tax rate is 17.2% 2013: 20.9%.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, a charge of 6m 2013: 5m relating to joint ventures and associates is included in the profit beforetax.
Adjustments in respect of settlement of prior years tax liabilities The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 105 Income tax reconciliation Restated 2014 2013 m m Profit before income tax in consolidated income statement 188 295 Less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 10 14 Profit on ordinary activities excluding share of joint ventures and associates 178 281 Income tax on ordinary activities at the standard rate of UK tax of 21.49% 2013: 23.25% 38 65 Tax exempt income 21 25 Non-deductible expenses 11 9 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 2 1 Effect of tax rates on other operating income and expense 1 3 Other effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 9 Effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 3 3 Other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 3 5 Income tax expense per consolidated income statement 37 30 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated using the following information: Restated 2014 2013 a Basic Profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 110 224 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 324 324 Basic earnings per share pence 34.0p 69.4p b Diluted Profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 110 224 Weighted average number of shares in issue m 324 324 Potentially dilutive share options under the Groups share option schemes m 1 2 Weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 325 326 Diluted earnings per share pence 33.9p 69.0p Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 106 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment Plant and Land Capital Fixtures, machinery and work in fittings and and buildings progress equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Cost Restated balance at 1 January 2013 2,401 28 213 221 2,863 Additions 63 27 6 24 120 Transfers 11 30 10 9 Disposals 5 1 6 Written off 2 18 20 Foreign exchange adjustments 59 11 9 79 Restated balance at 31 December 2013 2,411 25 216 226 2,878 Balance at 1 January 2014 2,411 25 216 226 2,878 Additions Acquisitions 271 7 15 293 Additions Others 41 20 19 19 99 Transfers 8 21 2 8 3 Disposals 2 2 Written off 10 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 42 5 5 52 Balance at 31 December 2014 2,773 24 249 261 3,307 Accumulated depreciation Restated balance at 1 January 2013 244 1 65 172 482 Charge for the year 16 8 21 45 Impairment 20 1 21 Disposals 5 1 6 Written off 2 18 20 Foreign exchange adjustments 8 2 4 14 Restated balance at 31 December 2013 267 1 70 170 508 Balance at 1 January 2014 267 1 70 170 508 Charge for the year 15 11 24 50 Disposals 2 2 Written off 10 10 Foreign exchange adjustments 4 2 2 8 Balance at 31 December 2014 286 1 83 184 554 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2014 2,487 23 166 77 2,753 At 31 December 2013 restated 2,144 24 146 56 2,370 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2014 was 5.6m 2013: nil.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 107 a Impairment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are individual hotels.
The carrying value of individual hotels was compared to the recoverable amount of the hotels, which was predominantly based on value-in-use.
For 2014, where indicators of impairment were present, the Group estimated value-in-use through creation of discounted cash flow models, based on future trading performance expected by management.
The underlying basis for the impairment model involves each hotels projected cash flow for the financial year ending 31 December 2015, extrapolated to incorporate individual assumptions in respect of revenue growth principally factoring in room rate and occupancy growth and major expense lines.
The future cash flows are based on assumptions about competitive growth rates for hotels in that area, as well as internal business plans.
These plans and forecasts include managements most recent view of trading prospects for the hotel in the relevant market.
The forecasts cover a five to ten year period, and cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a growth rate ranging between 2% and 3%, which is based upon the expected trading growth for each hotel and inflation in the country.
Where appropriate, the Directors sought guidance on value from a registered independent appraiser with an appropriately recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the hotel being valued.
On the basis of both external and internal valuations in 2014, the Group recorded an impairment charge of nil 2013: 21m.
The 21m in the previous year impairment charge comprised 4m for four Regional UK hotels in Rest of Europe, 12m for a hotel in Regional US and 5m for a hotel in Rest of Asia.
b Key assumptions used by the external appraisers The key assumptions used were as follows: Pre-tax discount rate The discount rate is based on the country in which the hotel is located and is adjusted for risks associated with the hotel.
Discount rates ranged from 11% to 12% in the US, 8% to 12% in Europe, 9% in Asia and 9% in Australasia.
Occupancy rate The occupancy growth rates ranged from 0% to 7% in the US, 0% to 4% in Europe, 0% to 3% in Asia and 0% to 5% in Australasia.
Average room rate The average room rate growth ranged from 3% to 4% in the US, 0% to 7% in Europe, 0% to 6% in Asia and 1% to 4% in Australasia.
c Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and revenue growth assumptions.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single factor could result in impairment in certain hotels in Regional UK, Regional US, Asia and Australasia as their fair value currently exceeds their carrying value only by a small percentage.
d Land and buildings Land and buildings includes long leasehold building assets with a book value of 595m 2013: 534m.
The net book value of land and buildings held under short leases was 100m 2013: 88m, in respect of which depreciation of 2m 2013: 1m was charged during the year.
No interest was capitalised within land and buildings during the year 2013: nil.
The cumulative capitalised interest within land and buildings is 5m 2013: 5m.
e Pledged assets At year-end, the net book value of assets pledged as collateral for secured loans was 227m 2013: 280m.
Thesecurity for the loans is by way of charges on the properties of the Group companies concerned.
f Business combination On 12 June 2014, the Group acquired Novotel New York Times Square for a purchase price of US$274m 161m.
The purchase price consists of property, plant & equipment, which has been included in the Groups New York geographical segment.
The fair value asset allocation indicates that the purchase price approximates the fair value of the acquired assets and there is no goodwill.
The results of Novotel since the acquisition date have been included in our consolidated financial statements.
In conjunction with the acquisition, we entered into a finance lease arrangement for a part of the property for US$9m 6m.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 108 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In addition, on 19 December 2014, the Group acquired two hotels in Japan, as well as all the outstanding shares of capital stock of a company that operates them.
The preliminary fair value asset allocation indicates that the purchase price approximates the fair value of acquired assets and there will be no goodwill.
The Group has one year from the date of purchase to finalise the allocation of the purchase between tangible and intangible assets.
Based on the preliminary analysis, the purchase price has been fully allocated to property, plant & equipment on the Groups balance sheet, and full analysis will be completed in 2015. g Other acquisitions On 25 March 2014, the Group acquired the leasehold interest in a hotel property located within the Chelsea Harbour district in London for a purchase price of 65m.
The total acquisition cost including other expenses is 68m, which were capitalised as property, plant & equipment within the Groups existing hotels portfolio.
In addition, on 9 October 2014, the Group completed the purchase of its first hotel in Italy, for 66m 51m.
The total acquisition cost was capitalised as property, plant & equipment within the Groups existing hotels portfolio.
In conjunction with the acquisition, the Group entered into a holdback escrow agreement with the seller.
Pursuant to the holdback escrow agreement, we withheld approximately 6m 5m from the purchase price and placed it into an escrow.
The preliminary estimated fair value asset allocation indicates that the purchase prices approximate the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, and there will be no goodwill.
The Group has one year from the date of purchase to finalise the allocation of the purchase price between tangible and intangible assets.
Based on the preliminary analysis, the purchase price has been fully allocated to property, plant & equipment on the Groups balance sheet, and full analysis will be completed for the year-end.
13 Lease premium prepayment 2014 m Cost Balance as at 1 January, as previously reported 49 IFRS 10 adjustments 50 Restated balance at 1 January 99 Transfer from PPE Note 12 3 Foreign exchange adjustments 11 Restated balance at 31 December 113 Amortisation Balance as at 1 January, as previously reported 5 IFRS 10 adjustments 6 Restated balance at 1 January 11 Charge for the year 2 Foreign exchange adjustments Restated balance at 31 December 13 Carrying amount 100 Analysed between: Amount due after more than one year included in non-current assets 98 Amount due within one year included in current assets 2 100 The IFRS10 adjustments relate to the leasehold interest in Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel and Studio M Hotel Singapore acquired by CDLHT.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 109 14 Investment properties Completed investment properties comprise Tanglin Shopping Centre, Biltmore Court & Tower, CDLHT properties and Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo which was fully constructed in September 2014 and started operating in December 2014.
Investment properties under construction represents the land site at Sunnyvale.
Movements in the year analysed as: Investment Completed properties investment under properties construction Total m m m Balance at 1 January 2013 restated 314 78 392 Additions 47 6 53 Adjustment to fair value 19 19 Foreign exchange adjustment 35 15 50 Balance at 31 December 2013 restated 345 69 414 Balance at 1 January 2014 345 69 414 Transfers 63 63 Additions 42 42 Adjustment to fair value 27 27 Foreign exchange adjustment 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2014 473 6 479 In general, the carrying amount of investment property other than those under construction is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
Only the land site at Sunnyvale, California is classified as investment properties under construction at 31 December 2014 as it is still in the planning stage.
This asset is carried at cost on the balance sheet.
Construction of Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo was completed during December 2014 and the carrying book cost was transferred from Investment properties under construction to completed investment properties, and has been revalued to fair value.
At the end of 2014, those Group investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis by the following accredited independent valuers: Properties Valuers Tanglin Shopping Centre, Singapore DTZ Debenham Tie Leung SEA Pte Ltd Biltmore Court & Tower, Los Angeles Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Land site at Sunnyvale, California Sequoia Hotel Advisors, LLC Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo Jones Lang LaSalle KK CDLHT Singapore property Knight Frank Pte Ltd CDLHT Australia properties CBRE Valuations Pty Limited CDLHT Maldives property CBRE Pte Ltd CDLHT New Zealand property Colliers International New Zealand Limited Based on these valuations together with such considerations as the Directors consider appropriate, Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo and Tanglin Shopping Centre recorded uplifts in value of 16m 2013: nil and 3m 2013: 9m respectively.
In addition, the REIT properties recorded a net revaluation gain of 8m 2013: 10m.
All the other investment properties recorded no change as they are carried at cost and no impairment was identified.
Fair value hierarchy The fair value measurement for investment properties not under construction of 473m 2013: 345m has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on inputs to the valuation technique used.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 110 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs The following table shows the valuation technique used in measuring the fair value of investment property, as well as significant unobservable inputs used.
Inter-relationship between key unobservable Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs inputs and fair value measurement The technique applied in the valuation Tanglin Shopping Centre The estimated fair value would increase of the Tanglin Shopping Centre is based Open market values for other properties.
decrease if: on market comparison of sales of similar properties in the vicinity.
Further Biltmore Court & Tower Expected market rental growth were adjustments are made to this value to Discount rate of between 8% to 10% and higher lower : and account for differences in location, size, capitalisation rate of 7% to 9%.
tenure, view, accessibility, condition and Risk adjusted discount rate was lower other factors.
Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo higher, capitalisation rate was higher Discount rate of between 4% and 5% and lower and terminal yield was lower Biltmore Court & Tower and Millennium capitalisation rate of 4% to 5%.
Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo were valued using a discounted cash flow technique CDLHT investment properties based on expected rental income Discount rate of between 7% and 12%, and discount rate appropriate for the capitalisation rate of around 8% and property.
Investment properties held by the REIT were valued using the discounted cash flow, capitalisation or comparison techniques.
Further details in respect of investment property rentals are given in Note 31.
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates: Fair value of Effective Group interest ownership Principal place of interest 2014 2013 business m Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited New Unity Hong Kong 50% 50% Fena Estate Company Limited Fena Thailand 50% 50% Associate First Sponsor Group Limited First Sponsor Peoples Republic 127 36% 39% of China The Group has 50% interest in both New Unity and Fena which operate the hotel business in Hong Kong and Bangkok respectively.
First Sponsor is a property company based in China.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 111 Joint ventures Associates Total m m m Share of net assets cost Balance at 1 January 2013 restated 98 95 193 Share of profit for the year 7 7 14 Additions 31 31 Dividends received 36 36 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 2 1 Balance at 31 December 2013 restated 68 135 203 Balance at 1 January 2014 68 135 203 Share of profit for the year 6 4 10 Additions 44 44 Restructuring 28 28 Foreign exchange adjustments 5 2 7 Other movements 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2014 79 156 235 The following is a summarised financial information for First Sponsor and New Unity based on their respective financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The investment in Fena is not material to Groups financial statements.
First Sponsor New Unity 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Non-current assets 161 88 315 295 Current assets 469 373 53 49 Non-current liabilities 46 82 182 182 Current liabilities 146 108 28 25 Net assets 100% 438 271 158 137 Carrying amount by the Group 156 106 79 68 Revenue 73 80 100 102 Operating profit 14 20 26 28 Interest income 6 1 1 1 Income tax expense 9 6 4 5 Profit for the year 11 15 21 22 Non-controlling interests 8 8 Profit for the year after non-controlling interests 11 15 13 14 Other comprehensive income 12 16 Profit and total comprehensive income 100% 23 31 13 14 Groups share of profit and total comprehensive income 8 15 7 7 Dividends received by the Group 36 At 31 December 2014, the Groups share of the total capital commitments of joint ventures and associates amounted to 20m 2013:56m.
At31December 2014, the Groups joint ventures and associates had no contingent liabilities 2013: nil.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 112 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Other financial assets Restated 2014 2013 m m Other financial assets included within non-current assets comprise: Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 17 Inventories Restated 2014 2013 m m Consumables 4 4 18 Development properties Restated 2014 2013 m m Development properties comprise: Development land for resale New Zealand landbank 49 43 Development properties Zenith Residences 23 24 Glyndebourne redevelopment of Copthorne Orchid hotel 4 72 71 19 Trade and other receivables Restated 2014 2013 m m Trade and other receivables due from joint ventures and associates 1 Trade receivables 50 32 Other receivables 24 14 Prepayments and accrued income 30 136 104 183 Trade receivables are shown net of an impairment allowance of 2m 2013: 1m relating to the likely insolvencies of certain customers and non-recoverability of debts.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables aredisclosed in Note22.
20 Cash and cash equivalents Restated 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 228 239 Short-term deposits 289 231 Cash pool overdrafts 125 119 Cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position 392 351 Overdrafts included in borrowings 4 Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement 388 351 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 113 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets are disclosed in Note 22.
As at 31 December 2014, 5m 2013: nil of the cash balance was restricted.
This forms part of the consideration paid payable on the acquisition of a hotel in Rome Note 12.
21 Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings Restated 2014 2013 m m Included within non-current liabilities: Bank loans 323 335 Bonds payable 195 154 518 489 Included within current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 370 44 Bonds payable 29 33 399 77 Further details in respect of financial liabilities are given in Note 22.
22 Financial instruments Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
a Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, with credit checks performed on all clients requiring credit over certain amounts.
Credit is not extended beyond authorised limits, established where appropriate through consultation with a professional credit vetting organisation.
Credit granted is subject to regular review, to ensure it remains consistent with the clients current creditworthiness and appropriate to the anticipated volume of business.
Investments are allowed only in liquid short-term instruments within approved limits, with investment counterparties approved by the Board, such that the exposure to a single counterparty is minimised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset on the balance sheet, these being spread across the various currencies and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 114 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value Restated 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand see Note 20 228 239 Short-term deposits see Note 20 289 231 Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale see Note 16 5 5 Trade receivables see Note 19 50 32 Trade and other receivables due from joint ventures and associates see Note 19 1 Other receivables see Note 19 24 14 596 522 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying value Restated 2014 2013 m m New York 7 6 Regional US 7 5 Rest of Europe 5 4 Singapore 20 10 Rest of Asia 7 5 Australasia 4 2 50 32 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross receivable Impairment allowance Carrying value Restated Restated Restated 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Not past due 39 24 39 24 Past due 0 30 days 6 4 1 6 3 Past due 31 60 days 3 3 3 3 Past due 61 90 days 1 1 1 1 More than 90 days 3 2 2 1 1 1 52 34 2 2 50 32 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 115 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Balance at 1 January 2 2 Impairment recognised Balance at 31 December 2 2 Contractual maturities of financial assets 2014 6 months 6 months 1 - 5 More than Total or less - 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate Sterling 4 4 US dollar 22 22 Korean Won 7 7 Singapore dollar 175 175 New Taiwan dollar 6 6 Australian dollar 12 12 New Zealand dollar 47 47 Malaysian Ringgit 16 16 Euro 7 7 Others 16 16 Non Interest Bearing Sterling 23 23 US dollar 30 25 5 Korean Won Singapore dollar 25 25 New Taiwan dollar Malaysian Ringgit 1 1 Euro 4 4 Others 16 16 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 111 111 US dollar Total cash and other financial assets 522 517 5 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 44 44 US dollar 2 2 Euro 12 12 Japanese Yen 20 20 Hong Kong dollar 30 30 Non Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 17 17 US dollar Singapore dollar Total overdrafts Note 20 125 125 397 392 5 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 392 Other financial assets non current Note 16 5 397 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 116 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restated Contractual maturities of financial assets 2013 6 months 6 months 1-5 More than Total or less 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate Sterling 16 16 US dollar 80 80 Korean Won 5 5 Singapore dollar 119 119 New Taiwan dollar 13 13 Australian dollar 13 13 New Zealand dollar 35 35 Malaysian Ringgit 12 12 Euro 15 15 Others 35 35 Non Interest Bearing Sterling 16 16 US dollar 13 8 5 Korean Won Singapore dollar 34 34 New Taiwan dollar Malaysian Ringgit 1 1 Euro 1 1 Others 7 7 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 60 60 US dollar Total cash and other financial assets 475 470 5 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling US dollar 60 60 Euro Japanese Yen 14 14 Hong Kong dollar 32 32 Non Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 13 13 US dollar Singapore dollar Total overdrafts Note 20 119 119 356 351 5 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 351 Other financial assets non-current Note 16 5 356 b Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 117 The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments using the interest rates prevailing as at the reporting date.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 67 72 2 2 5 63 Unsecured loans 526 540 56 265 57 162 Unsecured bonds 166 171 30 1 74 66 Bank overdrafts 3 4 4 Fixed rate financial liabilities Unsecured loans 97 105 2 51 1 51 Unsecured bonds 58 63 1 1 61 Trade and other payables Trade payables 23 23 19 4 Other creditors 16 16 16 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 11 11 1 2 8 967 1,005 129 324 139 405 8 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years Restated 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 77 88 2 2 4 80 Unsecured loans 256 266 2 38 180 46 Unsecured bonds 96 101 1 1 28 71 Bank overdrafts 1 1 1 Fixed rate financial liabilities Unsecured loans 45 52 1 1 1 49 Unsecured bonds 91 98 1 34 2 61 Trade and other payables Trade payables 21 21 19 2 Amounts owed to associates 3 3 3 Other creditors 5 5 5 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 1 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 8 8 2 5 1 604 644 36 78 217 312 1 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 118 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Undrawn committed borrowing facilities At 31 December 2014, the Group had 255m 2013: 255m of undrawn and committed facilities available, comprising committed revolving credit facilities which provide the Group with financial flexibility.
Maturities of these facilities are set out in the following table.
The conditions precedent to the availability of these facilities are all satisfied at the balance sheet date.
Restated 2014 2013 m m Expiring in one year or less 169 9 Expiring after more than one year but not more than two years 16 143 Expiring after more than two years but not more than five years 70 103 Expiring after more than five years Total undrawn committed borrowing facilities 255 255 Security Included within the Groups total bank loans and overdrafts of 693m 2013: 485m are 70m 2013: 77m of secured loans and overdrafts.
Total bonds and notes payable of 224m 2013: 187m are unsecured.
Loans, bonds and notes are secured on land and buildings with a carrying value of 283m 2013: 280m and an assignment of insurance proceeds in respect of insurances over the mortgaged properties.
Of the Groups total facilities of 1,188m, 575m matures during 2015, comprising 29m unsecured bonds, 196m committed revolving credit facilities, 45m uncommitted facilities and overdrafts subject to annual renewal, 303m unsecured term loans and 2m secured term loans.
Plans for refinancing of maturing facilities are underway.
c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The primary objectives of the treasury function are to provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the Group and to identify and manage financial risks, including exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates arising from those activities.
If appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks, as set out below.
i Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on revenue, purchases, borrowings and cash deposits denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Singapore dollars, New Zealand dollars, New Taiwan dollars, Korean won, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen and Euro.
The Groups principal policy, wherever possible, is to maintain a natural hedge whereby liabilities are matched with assets denominated in the same currency.
Foreign currency investment exposure is also minimised by borrowing in the currency of the investment.
To mitigate foreign currency translation exposure, an appropriate proportion of net assets are designated as hedged against corresponding financial liabilities in the same currency.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 119 Net investment hedging The Group has US$429m 2013: US$164m US dollar loans and overdrafts, 61m 2013: nil Euro loans and overdrafts, and JPY3,704m 2013: JPY2,373m Japanese yen overdrafts designated as hedges of corresponding respective proportions of its net investment in foreign operations whose functional currencies are US dollars, Euros and Japanese yen.
The risk being hedged is the foreign currency exposure on the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation upon consolidation.
The fair value of the hedging instruments as at 31 December 2014 was 343m 2013: 113m.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the consolidated income statement that arose from hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
An analysis of borrowings by currency and their fair values as at 31 December is given below: 31 December 2014 Restated 31 December 2013 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Singapore dollar 204 204 197 197 Australia dollar 49 49 50 50 US dollar 438 438 193 193 New Zealand dollar 34 34 41 41 Chinese renminbi 36 36 36 36 Japanese yen 89 89 43 43 New Taiwan dollar 10 10 6 6 Korean Won 21 21 Euro 36 36 917 917 566 566 Exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans during each accounting period are recognised as a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The foreign exchange exposure arising on the Groups net investment in its subsidiaries is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the exposure arising on the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
Foreign currency transaction exposure is primarily managed through funding of purchases from operating income streams arising in the same currency.
Hedging of transaction exposure is undertaken with approved counterparties and within designated limits, using spot or shortterm forward contracts to buy or sell the currency concerned, once the timing and the underlying amount of exposure have been determined.
Foreign exchange derivatives may also be used to hedge specific transaction exposure where appropriate.
There are no foreign exchange derivatives in place at 31December 2014.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 US dollar 1.645 1.569 1.556 1.647 Singapore dollar 2.087 1.963 2.059 2.088 New Taiwan dollar 49.938 46.634 49.419 49.450 New Zealand dollar 1.990 1.917 2.001 2.013 Malaysian ringgit 5.391 4.953 5.442 5.419 Korean won 1,727.98 1,713.18 1,708.55 1,735.49 Chinese renminbi 10.138 9.648 9.684 9.999 Euro 1.240 1.179 1.278 1.197 Japanese yen 173.950 152.194 187.334 172.545 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 120 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Sensitivity analysis With respect to the Groups foreign currency exposure, and assuming that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, it is estimated that a 10% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31December 2014 31December 2013: 10% would have decreased equity and profit before tax by the amounts shown below: 31 December 2014 Restated 31 December 2013 Profit Profit Equity before tax Equity before tax m m m m US dollar 6 1 8 1 Australian dollar 1 1 Singapore dollar 4 9 1 19 New Taiwan dollar New Zealand dollar 2 2 Malaysian ringgit 1 Korean won 1 Euro 2 Chinese renminbi 3 3 Hong Kong dollar 2 1 1 Thai baht 2 1 Japanese Yen 2 2 16 15 23 A 10% weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 10% would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps The Group adopts a policy of ongoing review of its exposure to changes in interest rates on its borrowings, taking into account market expectations with regard to the perceived level of risk associated with each currency, the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt, and the extent to which debt may potentially be either prepaid prior to its maturity or refinanced at reduced cost.
The Groups policy is to maintain a mixture of its financial liabilities on a fixed and floating-rate basis with a greater emphasis on floating rates presently as this flexibility is considered to be appropriate in the context of the Groups overall geographical diversity, investment and business cycle and the stability of the income streams, cash balances and loan covenants.
Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings, and the Group actively monitors the need and timing for such derivatives.
Where used, interest rate derivatives are classified as cash flow hedges and stated at fair value within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
Further details of interest rate derivatives in place at 31 December 2014 are provided below.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Assuming that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant, a change of one percentage point in the average interest rates applicable to variable rate instruments for the year would have increased decreased the Groups profit before tax for the year as shown below: Restated 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease m m m m Variable rate financial assets 3 3 3 3 Variable rate financial liabilities 8 8 6 6 Cash flow sensitivity net 5 5 3 3 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 121 d Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the fair and book values of all the Groups financial instruments by category.
Fairvalues are determined by reference to market values, where available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Restated Restated 2014 2014 2013 2013 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 228 228 239 239 Short-term deposits 289 289 231 231 Cash pool overdrafts 125 125 119 119 Available-for-sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 5 5 Loans and receivables Trade receivables 50 50 32 32 Trade receivables due from joint ventures and associates 1 1 Other receivables 24 24 14 14 471 471 403 403 Financial liabilities Overdrafts and borrowings 917 917 566 566 Trade payables 23 23 21 21 Amounts owed to associates 3 3 Other creditors 16 16 5 5 Other non-current liabilities 11 11 8 8 Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 967 967 604 604 Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps, bank valuations are used.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 122 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for similar lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value Prevailing market interest rates are used to discount cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Available-for-sale financial assets unquoted equity investments Fair value is estimated using appropriate valuation techniques.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 December 2014, the Group held certain financial instruments measured at fair value.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 5 5 Restated 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets Unquoted equity investments available-for-sale 5 5 5 5 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 123 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges Restated 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Liabilities measured at fair value m m m m Forward cross currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 During the year ended 31 December 2014, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measures.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Companys objective for managing its capital is to ensure that Group entities will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders, as well as sustaining the future development of its business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may alter the total amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, draw down additional debt or reduce debt.
The Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the loans and borrowings disclosed in Note 21, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in Note 20 and the equity attributable to the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
One of the Groups subsidiaries, CDLHT which is a stapled group comprising CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust H-REIT and CDL Hospitality Business Trust HBT, a business trust, is required to maintain certain minimum base capital and financial resources.
H-REIT is subject to the aggregate leverage limit as defined in the Property Fund Appendix of the Code on Collective Investment Schemes CIS Code issued by Monetary Authority of Singapore.
The CIS Code stipulates that the total borrowings and deferred payments together the Aggregate Leverage of a property fund should not exceed 35.0% of its Deposited Property except that the Aggregate Leverage of a property fund may exceed 35.0% of its Deposited Property up to a maximum of 60.0% if a credit rating of the property fund from Fitch Inc. Moodys or Standard and Poors is obtained and disclosed to the public.
The property fund should continue to maintain and disclose a credit rating so long as its Aggregate Leverage exceeds 35.0% of its Deposited Property.
For this financial year, H-REIT has a credit rating of BBBfrom Fitch Inc.
The Aggregate Leverage of H-REIT as at 31 December 2014 was 31.7% 2013: 29.7% of H-REITs Deposited Property.
This complied with the aggregate leverage limit as described above.
HBT, H-REIT and CDLHT have complied with the borrowing limit requirements imposed by the relevant Trust Deeds and all externally imposed capital requirements for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Except for the above, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 124 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Employee benefits Pension arrangements The Group operates various funded pension schemes which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The most significant funds are described below.
United Kingdom The pension arrangements in the United Kingdom operate under the Millennium & Copthorne Pension Plan, which was set up in 1993.
The plan operates a funded defined benefit arrangement together with a defined contribution plan, both with different categories of membership.
The defined benefit section of the plan was closed to new entrants in 2001 and at the same time rights to a guaranteed minimum pension GMP under the defined contribution scheme also ceased.
The plan entitles a retired employee to receive an annual pension payment.
The contributions required are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 5 April 2014 and this has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 December 2014.
The contributions of the Group during the year were 24% 2013: 21% of pensionable salary.
As the defined benefit section is closed to new entrants, the current service cost, as a percentage of pensionable payroll is likely to increase as the membership ages, although it will be applied to a decreasing pensionable payroll.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to mortality, the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
South Korea The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in South Korea.
The contributions required are determined by an external qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 31December 2014.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
Taiwan The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in Taiwan.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 31 December 2014.
The contributions of the Group were 6% 2013: 6% of the employees earnings.
The defined benefit plans are administered by pension funds that are legally separated from the Group.
The boards of the pension funds are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants.
These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The above plans are substantially funded by the Groups subsidiaries.
The funding requirements are based on the pension funds actuarial measurement framework set out in the funding policies of the plans.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 125 The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and the liabilities have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2013 South 2013 UK Korea Taiwan UK Korea Taiwan Inflation rate 3.2% 3.0% 3.6% 3.0% Discount rate 3.7% 2.8% 2.0% 4.5% 4.3% 2.0% Rate of salary increase 3.7% 5.0% 3.0% 4.1% 5.0% 3.0% Rate of pension increases 3.2% 3.6% Rate of revaluation 2.2% 2.6% Annual expected return on plan assets 3.7% 2.8% 2.0% 4.5% 4.3% 2.0% The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due tothe timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The present values of the schemes liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are inherently uncertain.
The expected annual return on UK defined benefit plan assets for 2014 was 3.7% 2013: 4.5%.
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions holding other assumptions consistent, would have altered the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below: Defined benefit obligation 2014 2014 2013 2013 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease m m m m Discount rate 1% movement 11 14 19 24 Rate of salary increase 1% movement 3 2 12 10 Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plans, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 60 7 8 1 76 55 4 9 1 69 Fair value of plan assets 54 3 4 61 45 3 3 51 Plan deficit surplus 6 4 4 1 15 10 1 6 1 18 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 126 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 55 4 9 1 69 51 3 10 1 65 Current service cost 1 1 2 1 1 2 Interest cost 2 2 2 2 Benefits paid, death in service insurance premiums and expenses 1 1 2 2 1 3 Remeasurement losses gains arising from: Financial assumptions 4 4 3 1 2 Experience adjustment 1 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 2 2 1 1 Balance at 31 December 60 7 8 1 76 55 4 9 1 69 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Balance at 1January 45 3 3 51 42 3 3 48 Interest income 2 2 2 2 Group contributions 2 1 3 2 1 3 Benefits paid 1 1 2 2 1 3 Remeasurement gains arising from: Return on plan assets excluding interest income 6 6 1 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 Balance at 31 December 54 3 4 61 45 3 3 51 Actual return on plan assets 7 7 3 3 The fair values of plan assets in each category are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Total UK Korea Taiwan Total m m m m m m m m Equities 21 21 20 20 Bonds 2 2 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 31 3 4 38 24 3 3 30 54 3 4 61 45 3 3 51 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 127 The expense recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 1 1 2 1 1 2 Interest cost 2 2 2 2 Interest income 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 2 Total cost is recognised within the following items in the income statement: 2014 2013 m m Cost of sales 1 1 Administrative expenses 1 1 2 2 The gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 South 2014 2014 2014 2013 South 2013 2013 2013 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total UK Korea Taiwan Other Total m m m m m m m m m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 6 6 1 1 Remeasurement losses gains arising from Financial assumptions 4 4 3 1 2 Experience adjustment 1 1 Defined benefit plan remeasurement gains losses 3 3 2 1 1 2014 2013 Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity are as follows: m m Cumulative as at 1 January 18 17 Remeasurement losses recognised during the year 3 1 Cumulative as at 31 December 15 18 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 128 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Mortality rates used reflect an industry wide recognition that life expectancy has increased.
The lifeexpectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the UK Plan, based on retirement age of 65, areasfollows: 2014 2013 Years Years Males 25 25 Females 27 27 The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 2014 was 26 years 2013: 26 The Group expects 3m in contributions to be paid to the defined benefit plans in 2015.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share option schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
Details of these schemes are given in the Remuneration Committee report.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy 2.3N iv on share-based payment transactions, the fair value of share options and long-term incentive awards is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and longterm incentive awards.
The charge to the income statement for the year was nil 2013: 1m.
The Group has applied IFRS 2 to its active employee share-based payment arrangements from 1 January 2005 except for arrangements granted before 7 November 2002. i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Long-Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards under this scheme are awarded to Executive Directors and senior management of theGroup.
Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Credited to Credited outstanding awarded vested forfeited expired outstanding share to share as at during the during during the during as at capital premium Vesting Date of Award 1 Jan 2014 year the year year the year 31Dec 2014 m m date 28.11.2011 635,119 304,170 30,264 300,685 28.11.2014 16.08.2012 553,543 62,208 491,335 16.08.2015 11.09.2013 463,643 56,432 407,211 11.09.2016 21.11.2013 25,117 4,062 21,055 21.11.2016 04.04.2014 659,027 10,417 648,610 04.04.2017 1,677,422 659,027 304,170 163,383 300,685 1,568,211 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 129 ii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme Share options under this scheme were granted to the Executive Director and senior management of the Group.
Proceeds on exercise of options during the year Exercise Options Options Options Options Options Credited to Credited to price outstanding exercised expired forfeited outstanding share share Date of grant of per share as at during during during as at capital premium Exercise options 1 Jan 2014 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2014 m m period Part II Unapproved 24.03.2008 24.03.2005 3.9842 13,891 3,310 10,581 23.03.2015 iii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme Share options under this scheme are granted to UK based employees.
The options outstanding at the year-end have an exercise price in the range of 3.30 to 4.48 2013: 1.54 to 4.48 and a weighted average contractual life of 1.7 years 2013: 1.7 years.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 130 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following awards options were granted in the current year and comparative year: Awards options granted Share price prevailing on date of Exercise Expected Expected Risk-free Date of Nongrant price Fair value term Expected dividend interest 2014 Awards options grant Directors Directors years volatility yield rates LTIP EPS 04.04.2014 86,898 242,616 5.57 5.17 3.00 2.4% LTIP TSR FTSE 250 04.04.2014 26,069 72,785 5.57 1.61 3.00 16.5% 2.4% 1.0% LTIP TSR hotels 04.04.2014 26,069 72,785 5.57 2.46 3.00 22.4% 2.4% 1.0% to 49.5% LTIP NAV 04.04.2014 34,760 97,045 5.57 5.17 3.00 2.4% Sharesave Scheme 3year 06.05.2014 96,757 5.56 4.46 1.28 3.25 22.9% 2.4% 1.4% Sharesave Scheme 5year 06.05.2014 7,934 5.56 4.46 1.80 5.25 33.1% 2.4% 2.0% Awards options granted Share price prevailing on date of Exercise Expected Expected Risk-free Date of Nongrant price Fair value term Expected dividend interest 2013 Awards options grant Directors Directors years volatility yield rates LTIP EPS 11.09.2013 87,917 144,689 5.62 5.22 3.00 2.4% LTIP EPS 21.11.2013 12,558 5.88 5.48 3.00 2.3% LTIP TSR FTSE 11.09.2013 87,917 144,690 5.62 2.08 3.00 23.8% 2.4% 0.6% LTIP TSR FTSE 21.11.2013 12,559 5.88 2.22 3.00 20.8% 2.3% 0.5% Sharesave Scheme 3year 19.04.2013 62,344 5.60 4.48 1.34 3.25 27.1% 2.4% 0.4% Sharesave Scheme 5year 19.04.2013 6,694 5.60 4.48 2.01 5.25 41.3% 2.4% 0.8% Measurement of fair value The LTIP and Sharesave awards, which are subject to an EPS performance condition, were valued using the Black-Scholes valuation method.
The LTIP awards which are subject to a share price related performance condition i. e. TSR were valued using the Monte Carlo valuation method.
The option pricing model involves six variables: Exercise price Share price at grant Expected term Expected volatility of share price Risk-free interest rate Expected dividend yield Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 131 24 Provisions Beijing Dilapidation Legal indemnity Total m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 2 4 7 13 Additions 1 1 Released 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2014 1 5 7 13 Analysed as: Non-current provision 7 7 Current provision 1 5 6 Total provision 1 5 7 13 Provision for legal fees as at 31 December 2014 of 5m 2013: 4m relatesto disputes in several hotels.
The Group also provided 7m 2013:7m of tax indemnity to the former shareholders of Grand Millennium Hotel Beijing in which it acquired an additional 40% interest in 2010.
During the year, a 1m dilapidation provision relating to the cost to be incurred on termination of a leasehold asset has been released.
25 Other non-current liabilities Restated 2014 2013 m m Deferred income Other liabilities 11 8 11 8 26 Deferred taxation Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting balances during the year are as follows: Charged credited to income statement Restated Other At adjustment At 1 January Change in to opening Current year Charged to Exchange on 31December 2014 tax rate provision movement reserves translation 2014 m m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 1 Property assets 231 3 2 7 7 246 231 3 2 7 7 246 Deferred tax assets Tax losses 16 2 1 1 16 2 Employee benefits 4 4 Others 3 1 1 5 23 1 2 1 25 Net deferred tax liabilities 208 3 1 5 6 221 1 Property assets comprise plant, property and equipment, lease premium prepayment and investment properties.
Restated to include deferred tax relating to CDLHT.
2 Employee benefits comprise defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payment arrangements.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 132 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
Restated 2014 2013 m m Tax losses 1 1 Adjustments due to: Deductible temporary differences in respect of prior year 1 2 Tax losses in respect of prior year 12 14 14 17 The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
The tax losses are subject to agreement by the tax authorities and compliance with tax regulations in the respective countries in which certain subsidiaries operate.
The gross tax losses with expiry dates are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Expiry dates: within 1 to 5 years 11 22 after 5 years no expiry date 62 60 73 82 At 31 December 2014, a deferred tax liability of 10m 2013: 10m relating to undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of 1,440m 2013: 739m has not been recognised because the Group determined that the distributions will not be made and the liability will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
27 Trade and other payables Restated 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 23 21 Amounts owed to associates 3 Other creditors including taxation and social security: Social security and other taxes 5 5 Value added tax and similar sales taxes 14 13 Other creditors 16 6 Accruals 115 90 Deferred income 20 14 Rental and other deposits 4 4 197 156 The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risks related to trade and other payables are disclosed in Note 22.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 133 28 Dividends 2014 2013 2014 2013 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend paid 11.51 11.51 37 37 Final special dividend paid 9.15 30 Interim ordinary dividend paid 2.08 2.08 6 7 Total dividends paid 22.74 13.59 73 44 Subsequent to 31 December 2014, the Directors declared the following final dividends, which have not been provided for: 2014 2013 2014 2013 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend 11.51 11.51 41 37 Final special dividend 9.15 30 All dividends paid during 2014 and 2013 were in cash.
29 Share capital Number of 30p shares allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2014 324,618,187 Issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 53,874 Balance at 31 December 2014 324,672,061 All of the share capital is equity share capital.
At the year end, options over 215,849 ordinary shares remain outstanding and are exercisable between now and31 January 2020 at exercise prices between 3.30 and 4.48.
In addition, awards made under the LTIP up to 1,568,211 ordinary shares remain unvested and may potentially vest between 11 September 2016 and 4 April 2017.
During the year Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc issued invitations to UK employees under the Sharesave Scheme to enter into a three-year savings contract or a five-year savings contract with an option to purchase shares at an option price of 4.46 on expiry of the savings contract.
30 Reserves Cash flow hedge reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 134 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Treasury share reserve An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 5,758 shares at 31 December 2014 2013: 54,985 to satisfy the vesting of awards under the LTIP.
During the year 252,590 shares 2013: nil were purchased by the trust.
At 31 December 2014, the cost of shares held by the trust was 32,093 2013: 299,366, whilst the market value of these shares at 31 December 2014 was 33,943 2013: 329,910.
Shares purchased by the trust are treated as treasury shares which are deducted from equity and excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
31 Financial commitments Restated 2014 2013 m m a Capital commitments at the end of the financial year which are contracted but not provided for 25 129 The Groups share of the capital commitments of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 15. b T otal commitments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable by the Group as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m less than one year 9 9 between one and five years 30 30 more than five years 140 148 179 187 c T he Group leases out its properties under operating leases.
The future minimum lease rentals receivable by the Group under non-cancellable leases are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m less than one year 30 25 between one and five years 96 72 more than five years 75 41 201 138 Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable leases includes all future rentals receivable up to the period when those leases expire or become cancellable.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, 37m was recognised as rental income in the income statement 2013: 37m and 1m 2013: 1m in respect of repairs and maintenance was recognised as an expense in the income statement relating to investment properties.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 135 32 Contingencies and subsequent events a In the course of its operations the Group is routinely e xposed to potential liabilities for claims made by employees and contractual or tortious claims made by third parties.
No material losses are anticipated from such exposures.
There were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
The Group has insurance cover up to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
Otherwise the Group generally carries its own risk.
The Group believes that the accruals and provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
Other than the above transactions, there are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which require adjustments to ordisclosure within these consolidated financial statements.
33 Related parties Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, associates and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with ultimate holding company and other related companies The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd Hong Leong which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and holds 61% 2013: 59% of the Companys shares via City Developments Limited CDL, the intermediate holding company of the Group.
During the year ended 31December 2014, the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries.
The Group deposited certain surplus cash with Hong Leong Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong, on normal commercial terms.
As at 31 December 2014, 30m 2013: 17m of cash was deposited with Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Fees paid payable by the Group to CDL and its other subsidiaries were 2m 2013: 2m which included rentals paid for the Grand Shanghai restaurant and Kings Centre: property management fees for Tanglin Shopping Centre and Glyndebourne in Singapore: charges for car parking, leasing commission and professional services.
As at 31 December 2014, City e-Solutions Limited CES, a subsidiary of CDL held 1,152,031 2013: 1,152,031 ordinary shares in M&C.
CES through its subsidiaries provided consultancy, management and reservation services to M&C for the year ended 31December 2014 for a total of 1m 2013: nil.
Transactions with joint venture City Hotels Pte.
Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, provided a shareholder loan facility of 550m Thai Baht 10m to Fena Estate Company Limited Fena, its 50% owned joint venture.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013 all of this facility was fully drawn.
The loan attracts interest of 4.5% 2013: 4.5% per annum.
This interest was rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
The total loan outstanding as at 31 December 2014, including rolled up interest, was 730m Thai Baht 14m 2013: 705m Thai Baht 13m.
The Group provided a further US$2m 1m 2013: US$2m 1m operator loan facility to Fena which was fully drawn down at 31December 2014.
The loan attracts interest of 2.2% 2013: 2.2% per annum.
This was rolled up into the carrying value of the loan.
Full impairment charge was made by the Group for the interest receivable.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 136 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Transactions with key management personnel The beneficial interest of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.04% 2013: 0.04%.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and executive officers, and contributes to a postemployment defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
The defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
Executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Groups Sharesave schemes.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 5 Share-based payment 1 6 6 Directors 2 3 Executives 4 3 6 6 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 137 34 Significant investments The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2014 and which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
These companies operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated and are held indirectly unless stated otherwise.
Effective Group Country of Principal interest incorporation activity Anchorage-Lakefront Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner Beijing Fortune Hotel Co. Ltd. 70% Peoples Republic of Hotel owner and operator China Bostonian Hotel Limited Partnership 100% USA Hotel owner CDL New York LLC 100% USA Hotel owner CDL Hospitality Trusts Note 1 36% Singapore Property owner and developer CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Korea Ltd. 100% Republic of Korea Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels Malaysia Sdn.
100% Malaysia Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels U. K. Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator CDL Hotels USA, Inc. 100% USA Hotel investment holding company CDL Investments New Zealand Limited 50% New Zealand Investment and property management company CDL West 45th Street LLC 100% USA Hotel owner Chicago Hotel Holdings, Inc. 100% USA Hotel owner and operator City Hotels Pte.
Ltd. 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Newcastle Limited 96% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator Copthorne Hotels Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 100% England and Wales Hotels investment holding company Copthorne Orchid Hotel Singapore PteLtd 100% Singapore Property owner and developer Gateway Regal Holdings LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation 66% Philippines Hotel owner and operator and investment holding company Harbour View Hotel Pte Ltd 100% Singapore Hotel operator Hong Leong Ginza TMK 70% Japan Property owner Hong Leong Hotel Development Limited 81% Taiwan Hotel owner and operator Hong Leong Hotels Pte Ltd. 100% Cayman Islands Investment holding company Hospitality Group Limited 75% New Zealand Holding company Hospitality Holdings Pte.
Ltd. 100% Singapore Investment holding company Kings Tanglin Shopping Pte.
Ltd. 100% Singapore Property owner London Britannia Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator London Tara Hotel Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner and operator M&C Crescent Interests, LLC 100% USA Property owner M&C Hotel Interest, Inc. 100% USA Hotel management services company M&C Hotels France SAS 100% France Hotel owner M&C New York Times Square EAT II LLC 100% USA Hotel owner M&C REIT Management Limited 100% Singapore REIT investment management services Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 138 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand 75% New Zealand Hotel investment holding company Limited Millennium & Copthorne International Limited 100% Singapore Hotels and resorts management Millennium & Copthorne Middle East Holdings 51% Hong Kong Hotel management service company Limited Millennium Hotels West London Limited 100% England and Wales Hotel owner Millennium Hotels West London Management 100% England and Wales Hotel operator Limited Millennium Hotels Hotel Palace Holdings s. r. l. 100% Italy Hotel owner and operator Quantum Limited 75% New Zealand Holding company Republic Hotels & Resorts Limited 100% Singapore Hotel operator and investment holding company Republic Iconic Hotel Pte.
Ltd. 100% Singapore Hotel operator RHM-88, LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator WHB Biltmore LLC 100% USA Hotel owner and operator Joint ventures New Unity Holdings Limited 50% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Fena Estate Company Limited 50% Thailand Investment holding company Associate First Sponsor Group Limited Note 2 36% British Virgin Islands Investment holding company Due to non-controlling interest shareholdings held within intermediary parent undertakings, the Groups effective shareholding incertain subsidiary undertakings in which it has control is less than 50%.
Notes: 1 As disclosed in Note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has concluded that under the new consolidation standard, IFRS10, it has fide facto control over CDL Hospitality Trusts.
2 The Group has assessed the classification of its investment in First Sponsor Group Limited in accordance with IFRS10 and concluded that it does not have control.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 139 Exemption from statutory audit Listed below are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by the Group, where the Directors have elected to take the exemption from having an audit of their financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This exemption is taken in accordance with Companies Act s479A.
Archyield Limited 1747079 CDL Hotels Chelsea Limited 2845022 CDL Hotels U. K. Limited 2729520 Copthorne Hotels Limited 759611 Copthorne Hotel Holdings Limited 627049 Copthorne Hotel Birmingham Limited 1816493 Copthorne Hotel Cardiff Limited 2411296 Copthorne Hotel Effingham Park Limited 1423861 Copthorne Hotel Gatwick Limited 994968 Copthorne Hotel Manchester Limited 1855800 Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Construction Limited 2649367 Copthorne Hotel Merry Hill Limited 2590620 Copthorne Hotel Plymouth Limited 3253120 Copthorne Hotel Slough Limited 2300992 Diplomat Hotel Holding Limited 1927463 London Britannia Hotel Limited 744379 London Tara Hotel Limited 1005559 M&C Asia Finance UK Limited 8391037 M&C Asia Holdings UK Limited 8382946 M&C CB Limited 3846711 M&C CD Limited 3846704 M&C Finance 1 Limited 6783896 M&C Hotels Holdings Limited 4407581 M&C Management Holdings Limited 5832248 M&C New York Finance UK Limited 9060415 M&C NZ Limited 5159722 M&C Reservations Services Limited 6754684 M&C Singapore Finance UK Limited 8391052 M&C Singapore Holdings UK Limited 8382985 Millennium & Copthorne Austrian Holdings Limited 3757378 Millennium & Copthorne Jersey Holdings Limited 5846574 Millennium & Copthorne Share Trustees Limited 3320990 Millennium Hotels Limited 3141048 Millennium Hotels Europe Holdings Limited 8844747 Millennium Hotels London Limited 3691885 Millennium Hotels West London Limited 8599282 Millennium Hotels West London Management Limited 8891908 Millennium Hotels & Resorts Services Limited 4601112 Each companys registered number is shown in brackets after its name.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 140 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Non-controlling interests NCI The following subsidiaries have material NCI.
Ownership interests Principal place of held by NCI business Country of Name incorporation Principal activity 2014 2013 25% 30% Millennium & Copthorne Hotels New Zealand New Zealand Hotel investment Limited MCHNZ holding company 64% 65% CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT Singapore Real estate investment trust The following is summarised financial information for MCHNZ and CDLHT, prepared in accordance with local accounting standards.
The information is before inter-company eliminations with other companies in the Group.
MCHNZ Subgroup CDLHT Subgroup 2014 2013 2014 2013 Name m m m m Revenue 65 62 84 78 Profit after tax 18 16 62 73 Profit attributable to NCI 4 5 39 47 Other comprehensive income 5 2 Total comprehensive income 23 18 62 73 Total comprehensive income attributable to NCI 6 5 39 47 Current assets 75 65 48 40 Non-current assets 217 292 1,143 1,072 Current liabilities 16 13 174 81 Non-current liabilities 52 62 231 268 Net assets 224 282 786 763 Net assets attributable to NCI 56 85 503 496 Cash flows from operating activities 10 9 70 65 Cash flows from investing activities 79 24 46 90 Cash flows from financing activities 40 2 20 21 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29 13 4 4 1 Dividends paid to NCI during the year 1 1 33 35 1 Included in cash flows from financing activities.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
