com including: register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: regular updates about our business: consolidate your share holdings: hotel and other property information: manage your dividend payments: and the ability to book a room at one of our hotels around the world: notify the death of a shareholder.
share price information: You can also manage your shareholding online by registering for Shareview at www.
When contacting Equiniti or financial results and investor information: and registering online, you should have your shareholder reference our financial calendar which includes dividend payment dates number at hand.
This can be found on your share certificate or and amounts.
Contact details for our registrar: Electronic shareholder communications Registering for online communication gives shareholders more Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex control of their shareholding.
The registration process is via our BN99 6DA, United Kingdom registrars secure website www.
Telephone: 0871 384 2343 Once registered shareholders are able to: and outside the UK 44 121 415 7047 Textphone: 0871 384 2255 elect how we communicate with them: and outside the UK 44 121 415 7028 amend their details: Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
amend the way dividends are received: and ShareGift buy or sell shares online.
It may be that you have a small number of shares which would This does not mean shareholders can no longer receive paper cost you more to sell than they are worth.
It is possble to donate copies of documents.
We are able to offer a range of services these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free and tailor communication to meet their needs.
service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More information on this service can be obtained from www.
Managing your shares org or by calling 44 0 207 930 3737.
Please contact our registrar, Equiniti, to manage your shareholding if you wish to: register for electronic communications: transfer your shares: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Overview 163 Be aware of share fraudsters Stockbroker Shareholders are cautioned to be very wary of any unsolicited Credit Suisse Securities Limited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free reports on the Company.
Auditor KPMG LLP If you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take the following steps: Solicitor obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make Hogan Lovells International LLP a record of any other information they give you, for example telephone number, address or web address: Principal bankers if the caller persists, simply hang up: and Bank of America Merrill Lynch DBS Bank Ltd. report the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA so Mizuho Bank, Ltd. that they can investigate.
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited You are able to do this online at www.
uk consumers Royal Bank of Scotland plc scams investment-scams  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation reportingform or by calling them on 0800 111 6768.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are authorised by the FCA.
Check the firm is properly authorised Registrar by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
Contacts and advisers Registered office Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No: 3004377 Corporate headquarters Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London W8 5SR, United Kingdom Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
