Mitie Group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Marketplace and operating overview Well-placed to benefit from the evolving outsourcing market Clients continue to recognise the strengths of outsourcing in the drive to meet cost and operational challenges.
We are excited about the growth opportunities in our targeted markets, as clients move from outsourcing single services to relying on our support across bundled services and, ultimately, fully integrated FM.
Economic climate 1 14 1 13 12 14 11 2 13 Although the UK economy is showing 12 10 signs of improvement, and we have 11 3 2 seen an increase in our bid activity across 10 our businesses in the past 12 months, 9 there is still some distance to go before Major markets: Major markets: 9 we can say that the effects of the 4 Revenue 8 Sales pipeline downturn are definitely behind us.
3 5 Against this backdrop and the 7 8 austerity measures which continue 6 to be implemented by both central 6 5 7 government and local authorities, 4 outsourcing is now well-established Public sector 0.8bn 36% Public sector 4.7bn 57% as a route to improved services with 1 Central and other government 8% 1 Central and other government 15% lower costs.
2 Local government 7% 2 Local government 14% We work with people who want to 3 Social housing 10% 3 Social housing 19% perform better, and see attractive 4 Healthcare 5% 4 Healthcare 6% opportunities across FM and Healthcare.
5 Education 6% 5 Education 3% Private sector 1.4bn 64% Private sector 3.5bn 43% 6 Finance and professional services 17% 6 Finance and professional services 8% 7 Manufacturing 11% 7 Retail 8% 8 Retail 11% 8 Manufacturing 5% 9 Property management 4% 9 Transport and logistics 8% 10 Technology and communications 6% 10 Property management 7% 11 Construction 1% 11 Technology and communications 1% 12 Utilities 3% 12 Utilities 2% 13 Leisure 4% 13 Leisure 2% 14 Transport and logistics 7% 14 Construction 2% Strategic Report Governance Financial 23 Clients want companies such as Mitie Although we will be highly selective in the opportunities we pursue, justice, social to help them carry out their business Services to better, not just cheaper.
Among the housing and local authorities are all areas where we anticipate high levels of growth surveys key findings was the fact that buildings although outsourcing remains a key in the coming years.
While there have been procurement delays in the justice method of reducing costs, it is also and facilities recognised as a way to harness expertise.
market, we remain confident and have also identified attractive opportunities Many interviewees also agreed that a focus on least cost provision was a false in social housing, particularly through the long-term nature of contracts economy, and stressed the need for a more outcome-based approach that and relationships that are a feature of this market.
encourages the best performance from the service provider.
Private sector The research identified five key customer Private sector clients face many needs: an emphasis on low price coupled similar challenges to their public sector with a proven track record: a steady counterparts.
They aim to outsource Marketplace shift towards bundled services and non-core services in order to reduce The total UK FM market is valued at integrated FM: increased expectation of costs while maintaining and in many 125bn, with 75bn currently outsourced.
FM providers, with a need for strategic cases improving the services they Our principal addressable market, defined advice as well as efficient service delivery: offer.
We have proven strengths in as contracts worth over 500,000 per greater demand for technology and many sectors and expect good growth, year, is estimated to be 45bn, of which management information: and reduced especially in retail, manufacturing, we have a 4% share.
The market remains demand for FM on a global or crosstransport and the financial sector.
fragmented and is dominated by around border basis.
Our growth has been predominantly 120 large providers, with the 12 largest driven by the private sector over the Public sector players accounting for 34% of the market.
past five years, and we expect this trend Individual service line markets tend to be In the public sector, we believe that to continue, as the economic recovery led by different competitors, who in turn outsourcing will remain a key government gains momentum.
have follower positions in other markets.
strategy and we foresee an increase The FM market is expected to grow in activity, driven by continuing budget around 2% per annum between 2013 and reductions.
The CBI recently estimated 2017, a significant improvement on the that the Government is only half way 1.2% per annum achieved between 2007 through its planned deficit reduction.
and 2013 sources: leading management In order to further reduce the deficit consultancy: MTW Research.
and procure services that offer the best value for money, it will continue to During 2013, we commissioned an open up public services to independent independent qualitative research competition.
This will be supported by the programme among senior property UK public services industry, which makes and facilities directors in the UK.
up more than 7% of the UKs GDP and supports over five million jobs.
The CBI also proposed to introduce new measures to boost transparency and trust in public sector contracts that are managed by private and third sector organisations, which we endorse.
Mitie Group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Marketplace and operating overview We have aligned the way we report our Operational performance Divisional performance FM business to more accurately reflect overview how it is managed, which is in the two key Soft FM There are significant opportunities areas of Soft and Hard FM.
Soft FM is for us to grow organically and to win made up of: cleaning and environmental 2014 2013 Growth market share.
This growth will be services: security: and catering and front Revenue 1,190.8m 1,122.2m 6.1% driven by: our extensive self-delivery of house services.
Hard FM provides a Operating capability supported by a well-managed range of technical and building services.
profit 74.8m 73.4m 1.9% supply chain, which generates value Operating Our integrated FM proposition brings for our clients whether they choose profit margin 6.3% 6.5% 0.2ppts together a range of hard and soft FM single, bundled or integrated services: Order book 5.1bn 5.0bn 2.0% services.
During the year, the total revenue our focus on technology which can generated from our integrated contracts increase efficiency and enhance was 668m.
Cleaning and environmental services profit margins: and our commitment to investing in capable management Rebranded in 2013 as Environmental, Over the last two decades, the FM teams that can build and maintain key this business is one of the UKs largest industry has moved from providing strategic relationships.
providers of cleaning, pest control, single services to bundles of services.
landscaping, waste recycling and winter Those strengths formed the basis Today, the focus is on integrating gritting.
It employs over 32,000 people a wide range of services into one for a year in which we were awarded and is active on every high street in cohesive contract, often at multiple and retained a number of important the country.
However, although contracts, details of which can be found the immediate benefits of bundled and on pages 12 and 13.
We brought these services together under integrated services include lower costs one banner to reflect client demands for and a single point of accountability, Facilities Management revenue split linking services that complement each long-term success is built on a track other, saving costs and improving quality.
1 record of consistent delivery across This model allows us to equip our all service lines.
people with multiple skills, thereby Many FM clients see technology reducing the number of site visits and and specifically management information improving productivity.
This joined-up 2 as a key differentiator among providers.
approach also increases efficiencies, 1,770m The data that we collect and hold as part saves vital resources such as energy of managing a clients estate can provide and water, and helps to reduce our clients powerful management information.
It allows us to reduce the total cost of 5 4 occupancy and improve service levels and Security responsiveness.
It also provides insight for Our focus is on providing our clients with strategic decisions about how our clients total security management.
We have run their estates: for example, how to responded to changes in the industry 2014 2013 better use mobile working or how to m m by adopting a risk-based approach to 1 invest or divest across their portfolio.
Cleaning and security we assess risks and then bring environmental service 363 388 together the right people, technology and While a fully integrated FM model 2 Security 216 246 consultancy services to manage them.
will not suit all clients, the shift to greater 3 Catering and front integration and bundling of services is While manned guarding remains of house 76 91 steady and is continuing to generate central to our security services, we have 4 Technical and new and expanded contracts for Mitie.
diversified through a range of higher building services 447 413 margin and predominantly technology- 5 Integrated FM 668 510 based offerings.
Services such as remote monitoring, employee screening, lone worker protection and vacant property security systems are changing our business mix.
In addition, there are good opportunities for us to incorporate security within integrated FM contracts.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 25 Catering and front of house Our specialist services continue to provide new opportunities, through Property management This is a service line that is now delivering services such as water treatment, building in a market where we have huge potential 2014 2013 Growth controls, fire and security systems and to grow the UK contract catering Revenue 264.8m 242.8m 9.1% compliance: all of which continue to grow.
Our Gather Our smartphone operational solution Operating & Gather catering brand has increased profit 14.4m 13.6m 5.9% and performance audit software is its bottom line three-fold in only three revolutionising the way our engineers Operating years and is winning business in its own profit margin 5.4% 5.6% 0.2ppts operate, and the way our clients manage right, as well as an integral part of broader their technical assets.
To further support our clients, we Competition in this market is significant Property Management now operates have refined our operational structure.
but fragmented split between the solely in the domestic housing market, Our technical and building services large global corporates and a host of serving both private and public sector offering now encompasses a range of smaller, independent and owner-operated customers.
We deliver a wide range niche property services such as roofing businesses.
The market is based on of property related services, and are a and plumbing, which previously sat within specialisation, with defined brands and market leader in comprehensive repair Property Management.
As all of these offerings targeted at specific sectors.
These operations services are related to either long-term Our team is diverse and contemporary, are delivered locally through our branch maintenance contracts or short-term and offers clients a new, challenger brand network in 28 locations, and reach in projects for clients with large, commercial with a real point of difference.
excess of 200,000 homes across the UK.
property portfolios, there are significant These services have huge potential benefits from operating them as part The market is fast moving, and we to generate reputational goodwill and of a singular, broader business.
continue to innovate and expand the position Mitie as the premier provider range of services we offer.
We support of catering and reception services, in our clients to make transformational combination with our award winning Energy solutions change, which includes bespoke Client Services.
partnering models, legal structures, 2014 2013 Growth strategic planning, investment Revenue 15.9m 45.9m 65.4% consultation and stock surveys.
Hard FM Operating The market is also continuing to profit 4.4m 1.4m 214.3% 2014 2013 Growth consolidate, and during 2013 we saw an Operating increasing trend towards longer-term, Revenue 579.4m 526.7m 10.0% profit margin 27.7% 3.1% 24.6ppts larger bundled contracts across larger Operating Order book 0.2bn 0.3bn 33.3% social housing portfolios.
With continued profit 30.0m 29.0m 3.4% pressure on local authority budgets, many Operating Energy and carbon consumption are profit margin 5.2% 5.5% 0.3ppts authorities are turning to economies of playing a growing role in the property scale to maintain quality across housing Order book 2.1bn 2.8bn 25.0% management decisions and strategies stocks.
We are well placed to exploit of our clients.
Costs continue to be a this trend by bundling services together Our technical and building services major issue for all, with our own research for clients.
offering encompasses a full range of forecasting that they will double by 2020. hard FM services, from mechanical and Our repairs business, which provides The issue is further clouded for clients by electrical maintenance to lighting and services to insurance companies the confusing landscape of obligations building fabric repairs.
We operate in a customers, and private sector housing and policies, as well as the complex wide range of sectors and are currently offering continues to grow and we are solutions offered by many providers.
seeing good opportunities across the creating a sector specialism within our Our FM proposition is supported by business: particularly with clients in the chosen markets.
services from our Utilyx business, which transport, local government, retail and helps our larger FM clients to procure, use commercial sectors.
and generate electricity more efficiently.
Demand for our mobile maintenance Energy consulting is an important service continues to grow, and it is differentiator for many of our clients, who now the most comprehensive in the recognise that it can add significant value UK.
We are also the largest lighting to their relationships with Mitie.
Utilyx also contractor in the UK, and the advances works direct with a large independent in LED lighting technology have enabled client base.
us to differentiate ourselves further by During the year, we integrated our Asset providing energy efficiencies.
We are continuing to reduce our exposure to the design and build element of this business.
Mitie Group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Marketplace and operating overview Homecare is recognised as an important element in the move towards Services a system of care that both meets patient needs and also delivers better value.
to people People prefer to remain in their own homes when possible, while central government and local authorities view homecare as a more cost-efficient alternative to care in hospitals or retirement homes.
Consequently, homecare in the UK is a marketplace Homecare services that displays many of the same features as the early days of FM outsourcing.
We offer a range of homecare services: These include clear opportunities for k Help with personal hygiene and consolidation in a fragmented market dressing needs and for technology to play a major role in k Morning and night time help to get Marketplace accelerating performance.
Furthermore, in and out of bed Out of an annual UK healthcare spend there is the potential for us to build on k Administration and assistance of over 100bn, our target social care our existing FM relationships with local with medication market accounts for 17bn and the authorities and the NHS to secure k Liaison with care users GPs homecare market in England alone homecare contracts.
k Respite care for relatives and carers Increasingly, homecare or adult However, a number of trends will drive k Escorted outings and holidays social care is publicly funded but privately this amount up in the coming years.
Two decades ago, the vast k Emergency assistance The UK population is ageing with the majority of care was provided by local k Live in care number of over 85s expected to double authorities.
Today, such provision is k Complex care in the next 25 years.
This increase negligible and almost all care is delivered means that long-term care is expected by independent organisations such to account for an increasing proportion as Mitie.
According to the OBR, this figure could rise from around 1.5% today to 2.5% by 2060.
Cost pressures continue to mount, with local authorities expected to reduce spending by 800m in the near term.
The planned 10% reduction in council spending over the next two years, announced in the 2013 summer spending review, will add further momentum to the drive to achieve better value in all aspects of long-term care.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 27 Performance highlights Healthcare 2014 2013 Growth Revenue 91.7m 43.0m 113.3% Operating profit 12.7m 5.7m 122.8% Operating profit margin 13.8% 13.3% 0.5ppts Order book 0.5bn 0.2bn 150% Enara was acquired on 9 October 2012, these results are from the period of acquisition to 31 March 2013.
Since the acquisition of Enara in 2012, which marked our entry into the homecare market, we have rebranded the business as MiHomecare.
It now benefits from a more streamlined corporate structure and back office, and full integration into our operations is complete.
MiHomecare provides high quality care at home to people who require help due to illness, disability or infirmity.
We deliver around 120,000 hours of care per week to 10,000 people via some 6,000 employees working out of 57 branches.
We offer a range of homecare models to a client base of local authorities 78% of revenue, the NHS 5% and private individuals 17%.
The average length of contract is three years and the business has a retender success rate of over 90%.
During 2013, we were appointed to deliver a Continuing Healthcare programme in Leicestershire as well as framework contracts in Peterborough, Worcestershire and Richmond upon Thames.
We also won a two year contract to provide reablement services and homecare in the London Borough of Camden.
Long-term, our strategy is to complement MiHomecares domiciliary care operations with capabilities in reablement, complex care, community services and integrated care pathways.
The acquisition of Complete Group in January 2014 was an important step in this direction.
Complete Group employs some 650 people, including registered nurses, to provide high acuity care at home to around 150 individuals with ongoing complex clinical healthcare needs.
