Governance 80 Corporate governance continued External audit Deloitte & Touche in South Africa and Deloitte LLP in the UK together Deloitte were appointed as auditors at the time of Mondis demerger from Anglo American plc in July 2007.
The South African audit partners tenure is scheduled to conclude after the audit of the 2014 results.
The committee has been overseeing the rotation and appointment process for a new audit partner with Deloitte.
The UK audit partner has been in place since the audit of the 2012 results.
The committee anticipates putting the audit out to tender ahead of the rotation of the UK audit partner in 2016: this will be a key focus of the committees work during 2015.
When considering the tender process a key factor in the committees choice will be the ability of the audit firm to effectively manage the complexities of Mondis dual listed company structure and geographic footprint.
A formal framework for the assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and quality of the audit has been adopted by the committee, covering all aspects of the audit service provided by Deloitte.
The main focus is on: the audit team, in particular the lead audit partners: the approach to planning and execution of the audit, including the role of management in the process: and how effective the communications between the audit team The committee, having and the committee are, including how value is added as well as the formal reporting of issues.
considered all relevant The committee has also incorporated a review of auditor independence and objectivity.
matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor The assessment is managed annually through the use of questionnaires to the committee independence, objectivity members, key management and finance function personnel directly involved with the audit and effectiveness have process at Group, divisional and business unit level.
The feedback from this process is been maintained.
collated and reviewed by the committee with a report and agreed action plan provided to both management and the Deloitte audit team.
For the review of the 2014 audit the committee considered the audit team, having been consistent with the prior year audit and thereby providing continuity of knowledge: and the approach to the audit plan, including engagement with management and the committee to agree the materiality levels and which sites would be individually reviewed.
Consideration was given to the work undertaken against the agreed plan, including feedback from Deloittes visits to specific Mondi locations, their involvement in the audit of the significant consolidation of the Europe & International Division, as well as questioning any deviations from the plan and the reasons for this.
Of particular importance is the timely consideration of, and engagement with management and the committee on, areas requiring specific judgement.
The committee chairman has also met with the Deloitte audit partners to discuss the results of the audit without management present.
Representatives from Deloitte report to the committee on their independence and objectivity and the mechanisms employed to ensure this is maintained and how any opportunities highlighted for improvement will be addressed.
They present their firms own quality control procedures and report on the output from the audit quality review of Deloitte by the Financial Reporting Council.
There are also Group policies in place regarding the employment of ex-audit staff and the provision of non-audit services.
The committee, having considered all relevant matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence, objectivity and effectiveness have been maintained.
The committee confirmed that Deloitte & Touche is included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
Following these considerations the committee made a recommendation to, which was accepted by, the Boards that resolutions to reappoint Deloitte be proposed at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, to be held in May 2015.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
