Governance 85 The Boards have adopted a formal diversity policy for the Group which sets out guidelines for such matters as recruitment, the use of search firms, succession and annual reviews.
A number of initiatives continue to be moved forward including the implementation of new training modules for our leadership programmes such as Intercultural Diversity & International Business Competence to enhance the understanding and appreciation of the benefits of diversity within the business.
Employee exchanges where individuals spend time working in different business units and locations around the Group enables them to gain experience of different working practices and skills as well as having exposure to different cultures.
While it is recognised that there is more work to do Mondi believes that continually sharing best practice, networking and sharing experiences both internally and externally helps us to make good progress.
More details can be found on page 35.
Committee focus in 2015 During 2015 the committee will continue to focus on succession plans and considering the appropriate composition of the Boards required to meet our future strategic needs.
Ensuring that any proposed changes are effected in a timely way with minimum disruption to the efficient operation of the Boards will be important.
Maintaining a watch on diversity within the Group and following through on our action plans from the 2014 evaluation process will continue to be key.
DLC remuneration committee Meeting schedule and attendance The committee met four times during the year.
Composition Members Committee Meeting attendance throughout the year member since four meetings in the year The committee believes that Stephen Harris March 2011 4 the remuneration policy Imogen Mkhize May 2007 4 will continue to motivate Anne Quinn, chairman May 2007 4 our senior team to achieve David Williams May 2007 4 the Groups objectives and deliver sustained returns Other regular attendees: for our shareholders.
Chief executive officer We also believe that the Joint chairman Fred Phaswana remuneration of executives Group head of reward during 2014 reflects our External remuneration consultant successes to date in the delivery of our strategy.
Anne Quinn, chairman of the Key responsibilities: DLC remuneration committee Making recommendations on the Groups policy on senior management remuneration Determination of the remuneration packages for each executive director and members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments Determination of the remuneration of the joint chairmen Implementation of employee share schemes The committees full report on directors remuneration, including details of the Groups remuneration policies and practices, is set out on pages 94 to 113.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
