Financial statements 163 The Group operates a DLC structure which has been agreed with the South African Ministry of Finance and is subject to certain exchange control conditions.
The exchange control conditions do not infringe upon the Groups ability to optimally manage its capital structure.
However, they do require that the capital supplied by, or made available to, the shareholders of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, be constrained by the equality of treatment mechanism, which serves to maintain and protect the economic interests of both sets of shareholders.
The Group has continually met the exchange control provisions in the past and management is committed to ensuring that the Group continues to meet these provisions in future.
The Groups trading and financing activities expose it to various financial risks that, if left unmanaged, could adversely impact current or future earnings.
Although not necessarily mutually exclusive, these financial risks are categorised separately according to their different generic risk characteristics and include market risk foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is actively engaged in the management of all of these financial risks in order to minimise their potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The principles, practices and procedures governing the Group-wide financial risk management process have been approved by the Boards and are overseen by the DLC executive committee.
In turn, the DLC executive committee delegates authority to a central treasury function Group treasury for the practical implementation of the financial risk management process across the Group and for ensuring that the Groups entities adhere to specified financial risk management policies.
Group treasury continually reassesses and reports on the financial risk environment: identifying, evaluating and hedging financial risks by entering into derivative contracts with counterparties where appropriate.
The Group does not take speculative positions on derivative contracts and only enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings.
30 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category At fair value through AvailableFair value Loans and profit or At fair value for-sale 2014 million hierarchy receivables loss through OCI investments Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables Level 2 873 873 Financial asset investments Level 2 8 18 26 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 66 10 76 Cash and cash equivalents Level 1 56 56 937 66 10 18 1,031 At fair value through AvailableFair value Loans and profit or At fair value for-sale 2013 million hierarchy receivables loss through OCI investments Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables Level 2 872 872 Financial asset investments Level 2 10 18 28 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 5 1 6 Cash and cash equivalents Level 1 130 130 1,012 5 1 18 1,036 Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 164 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 30 Financial instruments continued At fair value through At Fair value profit or At fair value amortised 2014 million hierarchy loss through OCI cost Total Financial liabilities Borrowings bonds Level 1 995 995 Borrowings loans and overdrafts Level 2 746 746 Trade and other payables Level 2 942 942 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 6 6 Other non-current liabilities Level 2 21 21 Total 6 2,704 2,710 At fair value through At Fair value profit or At fair value amortised 2013 million hierarchy loss through OCI cost Total Financial liabilities Borrowings bonds Level 1 1,289 1,289 Borrowings loans and overdrafts Level 2 463 463 Trade and other payables Level 2 921 921 Derivative financial instruments Level 2 3 2 5 Other non-current liabilities Level 2 19 19 Total 3 2 2,692 2,697 The fair values of available-for-sale investments represent the published prices of the securities concerned.
Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost.
The fair value of loans and receivables approximate the carrying values presented.
b Fair value measurement Financial instruments that are measured in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position at fair value or where the fair value of financial instruments have been disclosed in notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements require disclosure of fair value measurements by level based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The Group does not hold any financial instruments categorised as level 3 financial instruments.
The only assets measured at fair value on level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy are the Groups forestry assets as set out in note 13.
There have also been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives are determined using standard valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where available and rely as little as possible on Group specific estimates.
Specific valuation methodologies used to value financial instruments include: the fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable yield curves and exchange rates: the Groups commodity price derivatives are fair valued by independent third parties, who in turn calculate the fair values as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable market data: and other techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine the fair values of other financial instruments.
Except as detailed in the following table, the directors consider that the carrying values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the combined and consolidated financial statements are approximately equal to their fair values.
Carrying amount Fair value million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Financial liabilities Borrowings 1,741 1,752 1,852 1,836 Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 165 c Financial risk management Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Both risks are actively monitored on a regular basis and managed through the use of foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps as appropriate.
Although the Groups cash flows are exposed to movements in key input and output prices, such movements represent commercial rather than financial risk inherent to the Group.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates globally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the normal course of its business.
Multiple currency exposures arise from commercial transactions denominated in foreign currencies, recognised financial assets and liabilities monetary items denominated in foreign currencies and translational exposure on net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange contracts The Groups treasury policy requires subsidiaries to actively manage foreign currency transactional exposures against their functional currencies by entering into foreign exchange contracts.
For segmental reporting purposes, each subsidiary enters into, and accounts for, foreign exchange contracts with Group treasury or with counterparties that are external to the Group, whichever is more commercially appropriate.
Only material balance sheet exposures and highly probable forecast capital expenditure transactions are hedged.
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate possible movements on recognised monetary items are marked to market at each reporting date.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated at each reporting date to incorporate the underlying foreign exchange movements and any such movements naturally offset fair value movements on related forward foreign exchange contracts.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Foreign exchange risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on the foreign currency exposures inherent in the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at the reporting dates presented, net of related foreign exchange contracts.
The sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the Groups reported earnings of reasonably possible changes in the currency exposures embedded within the functional currency environments that the Group operates in.
In addition, an indication is provided of how reasonably possible changes in foreign exchange rates might impact on the Groups equity, as a result of fair value adjustments to foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
Reasonably possible changes are based on an analysis of historic currency volatility, together with any relevant assumptions regarding near-term future volatility.
Net monetary foreign currency exposures by functional currency zone Net monetary foreign currency 1 exposures assets liabilities 2014 2013 million EUR Other EUR Other 2 Functional currency zones Euro 14 9 South African rand 1 2 2 Pounds sterling 1 1 Czech koruna 11 15 Hungarian forint 3 3 Polish zloty 14 5 1 Russian rouble 3 2 2 1 Swedish krona 5 3 Turkish lira 2 2 US dollar 7 1 Other 59 12 33 1 Notes: 1 Presented in euro, the presentation currency of the Group.
2 Net monetary exposures represent financial assets less financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency, adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange risk hedging, excluding cash flow hedging of non-monetary assets and liabilities.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 166 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 30 Financial instruments continued Resultant impacts of reasonably possible changes to foreign exchange rates The Group believes that for each functional to foreign currency net monetary exposure it is reasonable to assume a 5% appreciation depreciation of the functional currency.
If all other variables are held constant, the table below presents the impacts on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement if these currency movements had occurred.
Income expense 2014 2013 million 5% 5% 5% 5% Functional currency zones Czech koruna 1 1 1 1 Euro 1 1 Polish zloty 1 1 Other 2 2 2 2 The corresponding fair value impact on the Groups equity, resulting from the application of these reasonably possible changes to the valuation of the Groups foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, would have been 3 million 2013: 6 million.
It has been assumed that changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of non-monetary assets and liabilities are fully recorded in equity and that all other variables are held constant.
Interest rate risk The Group holds cash and cash equivalents, which earn interest at a variable rate and has variable and fixed rate debt in issue.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to interest rate risk.
Although the Group has fixed rate debt in issue, the Groups accounting policy stipulates that all borrowings be held at amortised cost.
As a result, the carrying value of fixed rate debt is not sensitive to changes in credit conditions in the relevant debt markets and there is therefore no exposure to fair value interest rate risk.
Management of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with short-term highly liquid investments which have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Centralised cash pooling arrangements are in place, which ensure that cash is utilised most efficiently for the ongoing working capital needs of the Groups operating units and, in addition, to ensure that the Group earns the most advantageous rates of interest available.
Management of variable rate debt The Group has multiple variable rate debt facilities, of which the most significant is the syndicated facility RCF see note 18.
When deemed necessary, Group treasury uses interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures to movements in the relevant interbank lending rates, primarily the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate JIBAR.
Interest rate swaps are usually designated as cash flow hedges and are measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to the discounted contractual future cash flows, using the relevant currency-specific yield curves, and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents act as a natural hedge to movements in the relevant interbank lending rates on its variable rate debt, subject to any interest rate differentials that exist between the Groups corporate saving and lending rates.
Net variable rate debt sensitivity analysis The net variable rate exposure represents variable rate debt less the future cash outflows swapped from variable-to-fixed via interest rate swap instruments and cash and cash equivalents.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates have been applied to net variable rate exposure, denominated by currency, in order to provide an indication of the possible impact on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 167 Interest rate risk sensitivities on variable rate debt and interest rate swaps Interest rate risk exposures 2014 2013 million EUR GBP Other Total EUR GBP Other Total Total debt 1,198 355 188 1,741 1,507 245 1,752 Less: Fixed rate debt 999 6 1,005 1,299 2 1,301 Cash and cash equivalents 10 46 56 62 7 61 130 Net variable rate debt and exposure 189 355 136 680 146 7 182 321 Included in other is net variable exposure to various currencies the most significant of which are ZAR, PLN, RUB and TRY.
The Group did not have any outstanding interest rate swaps at 31 December 2014.
The potential impact on the Groups combined and consolidated equity resulting from the application of - 50 basis points to the variable interest rate exposure would be 3 million 2013: 2 million and in respect of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges would be nil for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In addition to the above, the Group swaps euro and sterling debt into other currencies through the foreign exchange market using foreign exchange contracts which has the effect of exposing the Group to interest rates of these currencies.
The currencies swapped into out of and the amounts as at 31 December were as follows: million 2014 2013 Long-dated contracts with tenures of more than 12 months Russian rouble 27 Short-dated contracts with tenures of less than 12 months Russian rouble 141 179 Czech koruna 179 81 US dollar 67 80 Pounds sterling 322 62 Swedish krona 50 34 Polish zloty 198 94 Other 41 57 Total swapped 354 614 Credit risk The Groups credit risk is mainly confined to the risk of customers defaulting on sales invoices raised.
The Groups exposure to the credit risk inherent in its trade receivables and the associated risk management techniques that the Group deploys in order to mitigate this risk are discussed in note 16.
Several Group entities have also issued certain financial guarantees to external counterparties in order to achieve competitive funding rates for specific debt agreements entered into by other Group entities.
None of these financial guarantees contractually obligates the Group to pay more than the recognised financial liabilities in the entities concerned.
As a result, these financial guarantee contracts have no bearing on the credit risk profile of the Group as a whole.
The Group only enters into financial derivative contractual arrangements with banks that have investment grade credit ratings.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could experience difficulties in meeting its commitments to creditors as financial liabilities fall due for payment.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by using reasonable and retrospectively assessed assumptions to forecast the future cashgenerative capabilities and working capital requirements of the businesses it operates and by maintaining sufficient reserves, committed borrowing facilities and other credit lines as appropriate.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 168 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 30 Financial instruments continued The following table shows the amounts available to draw down on the Groups committed loan facilities: million 2014 2013 Expiry date Within one year 59 42 One to two years Two to five years 397 750 Total credit available 456 792 Forecast liquidity represents the Groups expected cash inflows, principally generated from sales made to customers, less the Groups expected cash outflows, principally related to the payment of employees, supplier payments and the repayment of borrowings, including finance lease obligations, plus the payment of any interest accruing thereon.
The matching of these cash inflows and outflows rests on the expected ageing profiles of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Short-term financial assets and financial liabilities are represented primarily by the Groups trade receivables and trade payables respectively.
The matching of the cash flows that result from trade receivables and trade payables typically takes place over a period ofthree to four months from recognition in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position and is managed to ensure the ongoing operating liquidity of the Group.
Financing cash outflows may be longer-term in nature.
The Group does not hold long-term financial assets to match against these commitments, but is significantly invested in long-term non-financial assets which generate the sustainable future cash inflows, net of future capital expenditure requirements, needed to service and repay the Groups borrowings.
Contractual maturity analysis Trade receivables, the principal class of non-derivative financial assets held by the Group, are settled gross by customers.
The Groups financial investments, which are not held-for-trading and therefore do not comprise part of the Groups liquidity planning arrangements, make up the remainder of the non-derivative financial assets held.
The following table presents the Groups outstanding contractual maturity profile for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The analysis presented is based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities, including any interest that will accrue, except where the Group is entitled and intends to repay a financial liability, or part of a financial liability, before its contractual maturity.
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities which are due to be settled in less than 12 months from maturity equal their carrying values, since the impact of the time value of money is immaterial over such a short duration.
Maturity profile of outstanding financial liabilities 1 2014 million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Total borrowings including interest and net of amortised costs and discounts see note 18 235 113 1,045 579 1,972 Trade and other payables excluding tax and social security see note 17 942 942 Total undiscounted cash flows 1,177 113 1,045 579 2,914 1 2013 million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Total borrowings including interest and net of amortised costs and discounts see note 18 265 141 1,085 641 2,132 Trade and other payables excluding tax and social security seenote 17 921 921 Total undiscounted cash flows 1,186 141 1,085 641 3,053 Note: 1 It has been assumed that, where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date will not vary over the time periods remaining for future cash outflows.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
