Governance 83 DLC nominations committee Meeting schedule Composition and attendance The committee met five times during Meeting Members Committee attendance the year.
throughout member five meetings the year since in the year Stephen Harris March 2011 5 Imogen Mkhize January 2008 5 The key focus for the How the committee John Nicholas October 2009 5 committee during 2014 has spent its time Anne Quinn May 2007 5 been the consideration of Board and Succession Corporate Fred Phaswana June 2013 5 future skills and experience committee planning governance composition 40% 40% matters 5% David Williams, May 2007 5 required for the Boards in chairman line with our stated strategy of growing our packaging interests.
We have also Other regular attendees: considered executive Chief executive officer director succession planning acknowledging the challenges created by Board Other evaluation 11% 4% our dual listed company structure.
I expect that these considerations will continue to form a material part of our Key responsibilities: deliberations during 2015.
Evaluate and review the structure, size and composition of the Boards and committees David Williams, chairman of the Consider succession planning and management development DLC nominations committee Conduct selection processes, identifying and nominating candidates to fill director and executive management vacancies Oversee annual performance evaluation and implementation of the resulting action plan Review external commitments and the independence of directors Ensure new appointees are provided with a full and appropriate induction Consider the re-election of directors and recommendation to shareholders David Williams chairs this committee but is not permitted to chair meetings during sessions regarding his own performance.
Neither does he chair meetings at which the appointment of his successor is discussed.
As there were no changes on the Boards during the year the committee focused its deliberations on reviewing the current composition, skills and experience of the directors and considering what may be required to meet Mondis business and strategic needs going forward.
It was concluded that the present composition of the Boards remained appropriate and included a good mix of expertise, including international manufacturing and engineering experience.
However it was acknowledged that future changes would need to include consideration of broader skills and experience particularly able to support the strategic focus on developing our packaging interests and more experience in downstream manufacturing.
Succession planning for the directors and senior management has also been a key area of focus for the committee this year.
Considerations included taking account of the length of tenure, current and likely future business operating locations and potential gaps in knowledge of areas of potential risk for the Group.
We recognise the need for orderly changes to the Boards and are anticipating potential challenges that may arise before they happen to ensure we retain an appropriate balance on the Boards.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
