Governance 92 Corporate governance continued Shareholder engagement continued Investors are regularly offered the opportunity to meet with the joint chairmen and other directors.
During the year David Williams met institutional investors in order to gain an understanding of their views of the Group and to discuss any issues or concerns.
We acknowledge that at times our shareholders may take a different view to us which is why we maintain a regular dialogue as it is important that we explain our reasoning in the context of our strategy.
The remuneration committee consults with shareholders on remuneration matters when appropriate and responds to remuneration governance questions when raised.
In advance of the 2014 annual general meetings the chair of the committee wrote to key shareholders to explain Mondis remuneration policy.
With our focus on delivering value in a sustainable way our Group head of sustainable development also maintains a dialogue on socially responsible investment through focused briefings with interested investors and stakeholders.
Throughout the year responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders and other interested parties on a variety of subjects.
Feedback from the dialogue with shareholders, in particular following the full and halfyearly results roadshows, is provided by the brokers direct to the Boards.
When available, the directors also receive analysis of Mondis performance against other companies in the sector.
Analysts and brokers briefings relating to Mondi and the packaging and paper industry are circulated to the directors on a regular basis, further enhancing their understanding of investor views.
The investor section of the Mondi Group website is a valuable reference point for shareholders and others interested in our business.
It contains financial reports, trading updates and news about our business operations as well as the share price, governance and sustainability information.
Many of our shareholders are choosing to receive shareholder information electronically rather than by post.
Information on how to elect to receive financial reports and other communications from Mondi via electronic means can be found in the shareholder information on pages 192 to 196.
During 2014, Mondi did not receive any requests for access to records under the South African Promotion of Access to Information Act 2000.
Annual general meetings The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are scheduled to be held on 13 May 2015 in Johannesburg and London respectively, presenting an opportunity for shareholders to question the directors about our activities and prospects.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the committees will be present.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of business to be considered at the annual general meetings with the voting at the meetings conducted by polls.
The voting results will be announced on the JSE and LSE and made available on the Mondi Group website as soon as practicable following the close of both meetings.
The notices of the annual general meetings, which include explanations of each resolution, are contained in separate circulars which will be sent to all shareholders in advance of the meetings, in accordance with the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
