Financial statements Notes to the Mondi plc parent company 185 financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 1 Accounting policies Basis of accounting Mondi plc meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 FRS 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
As permitted by FRS 101, Mondi plc has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Group accounts of Mondi plc, which are publicly available.
The results, assets and liabilities of Mondi plc are included in the combined and consolidated Group financial statements, which are publicly available.
Mondi plc has made use of the exemption from preparing a profit and loss account, in terms of Section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Governance section under other statutory information under the heading Going concern.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are described below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied by Mondi plc are the same as those presented in notes 1 and 34 to the combined and consolidated Group financial statements, to the extent that the Groups transactions and balances are applicable to a set of the company financial statements.
Principally, the accounting policies which are not directly relevant to Mondi plc parent company financial statements are those relating to consolidation accounting and the recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill.
The accounting policy additional to those applied by the Group is stated as follows: Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Accounting estimates and critical judgements The accounting estimates and critical judgements applied by the key management of Mondi plc are discussed in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements see note 1.
2 Auditors remuneration Disclosure of the audit fees payable to the auditor for the audit of Mondi plcs financial statements is set out in note 5 of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
3 Share-based payments The share schemes and the underlying assumptions used to estimate the associated fair value charge are set out in note 22 of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
4 Deferred tax A deferred tax asset of 4 million 2013: 6 million has not been recognised in relation to temporary differences regarding the sharebased payment arrangements.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in relation to tax losses brought forward of 27 million 2013: 28 million.
The deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future income against which they could be utilised.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
