Financial statements 172 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 33 Events occurring after 31 December 2014 With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2014, included in note 10, there have been no material reportable events since 31December 2014.
34 Accounting policies Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The combined and consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, and of their respective subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
All intragroup balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
Control is evident where the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with that entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over that entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the years presented are included in the combined and consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquiring control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests are measured, at initial recognition, as the non-controlling proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
After initial recognition, non-controlling interests are measured as the aggregate of the value at initial recognition and their subsequent proportionate share of profits and losses.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Any resulting difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests is adjusted for and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the shareholders.
Associates Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically, the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Revenue recognition Sale of goods Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
This is when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
Sale of green energy and CO e credits 2 Revenues generated from the sale of green energy and CO e credits issued under international trading schemes are recorded as income 2 within other net operating expenses in the combined and consolidated income statement when ownership rights pass to the buyer.
Investment income Interest income, which is derived from cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, and loans and receivables, is accrued on a time proportion basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment has been established.
Business combinations Identifiable net assets At the date of acquisition the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or an associate are recorded at their fair values on acquisition date.
Assets and liabilities which cannot be measured reliably are recorded at provisional fair values, which are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Cost of a business combination The cost of a business combination includes the fair value of assets provided, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued by a Group entity, in exchange for control of an acquiree.
The directly attributable costs associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 173 Goodwill Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is attributed to goodwill.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of cash-generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Boards for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date during each financial year, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
Value-in-use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets covering a three-year period that are based on the latest forecasts for revenue and cost as approved by the Boards.
Projected revenues and costs are determined taking into consideration relevant industry forecasts for individual product lines: managements projections: and historical performance and announced industry capacity changes.
Cash flow projections beyond three-years are based on internal management forecasts.
Growth rates in the countries in which the Group operates are determined with reference to published growth domestic product information.
The discount rate is determined as the Groups weighted average cost of capital using published market data and published borrowing rates and adjusted for country risk and tax.
Any impairment is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Impairments of goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Non-current non-financial assets excluding goodwill, deferred tax and net retirement benefits asset Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise land and buildings, plant and equipment and assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any impairment.
Cost includes site preparation, the purchase price of the equipment and directly attributable labour and installation costs.
Borrowing costs are capitalised on qualifying assets.
The capitalisation of costs ceases when the asset is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of commercial operation.
Start-up and ongoing maintenance costs are not capitalised.
Depreciation is charged to the combined and consolidated income statement so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and assets in the course of construction, over their estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated to their residual values at varying rates, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives range from three years to 20 years for items of plant and equipment and to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
Intangible assets and research and development expenditure Intangible assets are measured initially at purchase consideration and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives vary between three years and 10 years and are reviewed at least annually.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Development costs are capitalised when the completion of the asset is both commercially and technically feasible and are amortised on a systematic basis over the economic life of the related development.
Development costs are recognised as an expense if they do not qualify for capitalisation.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value-in-use.
Inassessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset, or cash-generating unit, is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is reduced to its recoverable amount and an impairment recognised as an expense.
Where the underlying circumstances change such that a previously recognised impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Such a reversal is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset, or cash-generating unit, in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 174 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 34 Accounting policies continued Agriculture owned forestry assets Owned forestry assets are measured at fair value, calculated by applying the expected selling price, less costs to harvest and deliver, to the estimated volume of timber on hand at each reporting date.
The estimated volume of timber on hand is determined based on the maturity profile of the area under afforestation, the species, the geographic location and other environmental considerations and excludes future growth.
The product of these is then adjusted to present value by applying a market related pre tax discount rate.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement within other net operating expenses.
At point of felling, the carrying value of forestry assets is transferred to inventory.
Directly attributable costs incurred during the year of biological growth and investments in standing timber are capitalised and presented within cash flows from investing activities.
Assets held for sale Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal from the date on which these conditions are met.
Any resulting impairment is reported through the combined and consolidated income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
Current non-financial assets Inventory Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the first-in-first-out FIFO or weighted average cost basis, as appropriate.
Costs comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is defined as the selling price less any estimated costs of disposal.
Retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans for the majority of its employees as well as post-retirement medical plans.
Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, the amount charged to the combined and consolidated income statement is the contributions paid or payable during the reporting period.
Defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans For defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans, actuarial valuations are performed at each financial year end using the projected unit credit method.
The average discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds or similar government bonds of a suitable duration and currency.
Plans assets are measured using market values at the end of the reporting period.
The net retirement benefits liability recognised in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit liability as reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any net retirement benefits asset resulting from this calculation is limited to an asset ceiling which is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the relevant Group plans.
Any increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during the year is charged to operating profit as service costs.
Past service costs resulting from plan amendments or curtailments and gains or losses on settlements are charged to operating profit.
A net interest expense or net interest income is calculated by applying the discount rate, on a per plan basis, to the net defined benefit liability or asset and recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement within net finance costs.
Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets after recognising the net finance charge are recognised in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position with a charge or credit to other comprehensive income, net of deferred tax, in the reporting period in which they occur.
Remeasurements recorded in other comprehensive income are not recycled, but those amounts recognised in other comprehensive income may be transferred within equity.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 175 Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax.
Current tax The current tax charge is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups asset liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition, other than in a business combination, of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
The carrying amount is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered within a reasonable period of time.
Similarly, it is increased to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available in the future for all or part of the deferred tax asset to be recovered within a reasonable period of time.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the combined and consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by discounting lease payments using the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element of the rental is recognised as a finance charge in the combined and consolidated income statement, unless it is directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
These assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected useful economic lives of the assets.
Operating leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the combined and consolidated income statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term unless another systematic basis is more representative of the pattern of use.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, which it will be required to settle.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect of discounting is material.
Government grants Government grants are recognised when the right to receive such grants is established and are treated as deferred income.
They are released to the combined and consolidated income statement on a systematic basis, either over the expected useful lives of the assets for which they are provided, or over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 176 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 34 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions and translation Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded in their functional currencies at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on translation are included in the combined and consolidated income statement and are classified as either operating or financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Translation of overseas operations The Groups results are presented in euro, the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year where these approximate the rates on the dates of the underlying transactions.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in equity.
Such translation differences are reclassified to profit and loss only on disposal or partial disposal of the overseas operation.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of share awards is recognised concurrently as an expense and an adjustment to equity.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards granted, as adjusted for market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions where applicable.
Vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share awards that are expected to vest as a result of changes in non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, ifany, in the combined and consolidated income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups combined and consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial asset investments Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries and associates, are either classified as available-for-sale or loans and receivables.
Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at fair value.
They are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date to fair value.
Any unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and deferred in equity until an investment is disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity is included in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with short-term, highly liquid investments of a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short-term borrowings in current liabilities in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position.
Cash and cash equivalents in the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows and in the presentation of net debt are reflected net of overdrafts.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less allowance for any impairment as appropriate.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 177 Borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value, net of direct transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs Interest on borrowings directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets is capitalised until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds have been borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the construction period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts in order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently held at fair value in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position within derivative financial instruments, and are classified as current or noncurrent depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not formally designated in hedge relationships are recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement and are classified within operating profit or net finance costs, depending on the type of risk to which the derivative relates.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in the Groups cash flow hedge reserve in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, amounts deferred in the Groups cash flow hedge reserve in equity are recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit and loss on a proportionate basis.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the associated derivative are also recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Ineffective, expired, sold, terminated or exercised hedging instruments Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge relationship is revoked or the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity is included immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Equity instruments Treasury shares The purchase by any Group entity of either Mondi Limiteds or Mondi plcs equity instruments results in the recognition of treasury shares.
The consideration paid is deducted from equity.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to the shareholders of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
Dividend payments Dividend distributions to Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are declared and approved.
Final dividends are accrued when approved by both Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary shareholders at their respective annual general meetings and interim dividends are recognised when approved by the Boards.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 178 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 34 Accounting policies continued Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of the sum of ordinary Mondi Limited and Mondi plc shares in issue during the year, net of treasury shares.
Diluted EPS For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of the sum of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
At present these only include share awards granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease EPS.
Underlying and headline EPS Underlying EPS excludes the impact of special items and is a non-IFRS measure.
It is included to provide an additional basis on which to measure the Groups earnings performance.
The presentation of headline EPS is mandated under the Listings Requirements ofthe JSELimited and is calculated in accordance with Circular 2 2013, Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Segmental reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the DLC executive committee, the chief operating decision-making body.
Measurement of operating segment revenues, profit and loss, assets and non-current non-financial assets Management has regard to certain operating segment measures in making resource allocation decisions and monitoring segment performance.
The operating segment measures required to be disclosed adhere to the recognition and measurement criteria presented in the Groups accounting policies.
In addition, the Group has presented certain non-IFRS measures by segment to supplement the users understanding.
All intragroup transactions are conducted on an arms length basis.
The Groups measure of net segment assets includes the allocation of net retirement benefits assets and liabilities.
The measure of segment results exclude, however, the financing effects of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans.
In addition, the Groups measure of net segment assets does not include an allocation for derivative assets and liabilities, non-operating receivables and payables and assets held for sale and associated liabilities.
The measure of segment results includes the effects of certain movements in these unallocated balances.
The Groups geographic analysis is presented on the following level: continental: or sub-continental: or by individual country if greater than 10% of the Group total.
There has been no change in the basis of measurement of segment profit and loss in the financial year.
The DLC executive committee uses EBITDA as a measure of cash flow, coupled with the depreciation and amortisation charge, for making decisions about, amongst others, allocation of funds for capital investment.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Financial statements 179 New accounting policies, early adoption and future requirements Standards and Interpretations early adopted by the Group There were no Standards or Interpretations early adopted by the Group in the current year.
Standards, amendments to published Standards and Interpretation effective during 2014 The following Standards, amendments to published Standards and Interpretation which the Group has adopted during the current year, had no significant impact on the Groups results: IFRS 2 Share-based Payments IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows IAS 12 Income Taxes IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 39 Financial Instruments IFRIC 21 Levies Standards, amendments to published Standards and Interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The impact of the following Standards on the Groups results, which will become effective and be adopted for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and 2018 respectively, are: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers no material impact is expected on Group revenue with any impact offset by a corresponding movement in other net operating expenses resulting in no impact on operating profit.
Additional disclosures will be required.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments no impact is expected on the measurement of financial instruments, but additional disclosures and changes to current disclosure and presentation are required.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
