Governance 79 Fair, balanced and understandable A key role of the committee is to ensure that the interests of shareholders are protected, in particular that there is robust financial reporting with good internal controls in place and appropriate accounting practices and policies combined with sound judgement.
Although oversight and review of material financial reporting matters are considered throughout the year, at the February 2015 meeting the integrity of the Groups Integrated report and financial statements 2014 was assessed and the clarity of disclosures reviewed, taking cognisance of guidance issued by regulatory bodies.
The committee assisted the Boards in their assessment of the report to ensure that the disclosures were complete and in context and that the report as a whole fairly reflected the financial performance and prospects of the Group.
The collaborative approach, with well documented planning and procedures combined with a thorough review and verification exercise, helped provide confidence as to the accuracy and consistency of information in the report.
The committee received a detailed report on the financial statements from the Group financial controller outlining the significant matters, in particular those areas where management judgement had been made, and the assessment of the going concern basis of preparation.
The committee also received a report on the audit from Deloitte.
These reports were presented in the meeting and provided the opportunity for challenge by the committee.
The committee also met with Deloitte without management present in order to discuss the audit in general.
The committee reported to the Boards that they considered the report to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Committee focus in 2015 While the committee will continue to operate within its terms of reference and ensure that the meetings address all regular matters reserved for its consideration, the following additional key activities are expected to require the committees attention during 2015: finalisation of the rotation of the South African external audit partner: overseeing the external audit tender process: and consideration of the assessment of the Groups long-term solvency and liquidity in order to provide an appropriate viability statement to shareholders, as required by the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in the 2015 integrated report.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
