Financial statements 172 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 33 Events occurring after 31 December 2014 With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2014, included in note 10, there have been no material reportable events since 31December 2014.
34 Accounting policies Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The combined and consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, and of their respective subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
All intragroup balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
Control is evident where the Group is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with that entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over that entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the years presented are included in the combined and consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquiring control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests are measured, at initial recognition, as the non-controlling proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
After initial recognition, non-controlling interests are measured as the aggregate of the value at initial recognition and their subsequent proportionate share of profits and losses.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Any resulting difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests is adjusted for and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the shareholders.
Associates Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically, the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Revenue recognition Sale of goods Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
This is when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
Sale of green energy and CO e credits 2 Revenues generated from the sale of green energy and CO e credits issued under international trading schemes are recorded as income 2 within other net operating expenses in the combined and consolidated income statement when ownership rights pass to the buyer.
Investment income Interest income, which is derived from cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, and loans and receivables, is accrued on a time proportion basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment has been established.
Business combinations Identifiable net assets At the date of acquisition the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or an associate are recorded at their fair values on acquisition date.
Assets and liabilities which cannot be measured reliably are recorded at provisional fair values, which are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Cost of a business combination The cost of a business combination includes the fair value of assets provided, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued by a Group entity, in exchange for control of an acquiree.
The directly attributable costs associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
