Governance 102 Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration policy for non-executive directors continued All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc for an initial period of three years.
In accordance with best practice, non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election at the annual general meetings.
Appointments may be terminated by Mondi with six months notice.
No compensation is payable on termination, other than accrued fees and expenses.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Groups remuneration policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives is set taking appropriate account of remuneration and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Group.
The Committee annually receives a report from management on pay practices across the Group, including salary levels and trends, collective bargaining outcomes and bonus participation.
At the time that salary increases are considered the Committee additionally receives a report on the approach management propose to adopt for general staff increases.
Both these reports are taken into account in the Committees decisions about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives.
The Group does not engage in formal consultation with employees on directors remuneration policy.
However, employees of the Group are encouraged to provide feedback on the Groups general employment policies.
In some countries where the Group operates, more formal consultation arrangements with employee representatives are in place relating to employment terms and conditions in accordance with local custom and practice.
The Group also conducts periodic employee engagement surveys which gauge employees satisfaction with their working conditions.
The Mondi Boards are given feedback on these survey results.
Shareholder context The Committee considers the views of shareholders in its deliberations about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives, and consults directly with major shareholders when any material changes to policy are being considered.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Group to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
