Glossary of terms This report contains a number of terms which are explained below.
For a detailed glossary of sustainability terms refer to our Sustainable development report 2014 at www.
Chain-of-Custody CoC is a tracking system that allows manufacturers and traders to demonstrate that wood CoC comes from a forest that is responsibly managed in accordance with credible standards.
Operating profit before special items, depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organisation established in FSC 1993 to promote socially and environmentally responsible management of the worlds forests by way of standard setting, third party certification and labelling of forest products.
Greenhouse gases GHG are gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on GHG Climate Change UN-FCCC that contribute to the greenhouse effect and are regulated by the Kyoto Protocol.
The Global Reporting Initiative GRI is a not-for-profit organisation that produces one of the worlds most prevalent GRI frameworks for sustainability reporting.
A measure comprising short, medium and long-term interest-bearing borrowings and the fair value of debt-related Net debt derivatives less cash and cash equivalents and current financial asset investments.
Trailing 12 month underlying operating profit, including share of associates net profit, divided by trailing Return on capital employed ROCE 12 month average trading capital employed and, for segments, has been extracted from management reports.
Capital employed is adjusted for impairments in the year and spend on those strategic projects which are not yet in production.
Those non-recurring financial items which the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the Special items combined and consolidated income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Total recordable case rate TRCR is calculated as the number of total recordable cases the sum of fatalities, lostTRCR time injuries, restricted work cases, medical treatment cases and compensated occupational illnesses divided by the number of hours worked per 200,000 man hours.
Total reduced sulphur compounds, generated in the pulping process, and a source of emissions to air.
TRS Net profit after tax before special items attributable to shareholders.
Underlying earnings Operating profit before special items.
Underlying operating profit Reported profit before tax and special items.
Underlying profit before tax Printed on FSC certified Mondi MAESTRO PRINT in 250gsm, Printed by CPI Colour www.
co. uk 120gsm and 80gsm Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Mondi investor relations 4th Floor, No.
3 Melrose Boulevard Melrose Arch Johannesburg 2196 South Africa ir@mondigroup.
com Our 2014 suite of reports Please visit our online reporting hub where copies of our reports can be downloaded: www.
com reports14 Integrated report and Working together for a Online Sustainable development This report is prepared in accordance financial statements 2014 sustainable future 2014 report 2014 with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 guidelines to a B level with In this report we review our strategy, This publication gives an overview This report gives a comprehensive selected key performance indicators governance and performance in 2014. of how we create sustainable value view of our approach to sustainable verified by an independent third This report is also available online at and highlights some of our biggest development and our performance in party assurance provider ERM www.
It is 2014 with regards to environmental, Certification and Verification Services also available as a downloadable social and governance issues.
ERM CVS and is available online pdf at www.
com as an interactive pdf at sdpublication14 www.
com sd14 Forward-looking statements This document includes forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein, including, without limitation, those regarding Mondis financial position, business strategy, market growth and developments, expectations of growth and profitability and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned or anticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Mondi, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements and other statements contained in this document regarding matters that are not historical facts involve predictions and are based on numerous assumptions regarding Mondis present and future business strategies and the environment in which Mondi will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved: various factors could cause actual future results, performance or events to differ materially from those described in these statements.
Such factors include in particular but without any limitation: 1 operating factors, such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development plans and targets, changes in the degree of protection created by Mondis patents and other intellectual property rights and the availability of capital on acceptable terms: 2 industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for Mondis products and raw materials and the pricing pressures thereto, financial condition of the customers, suppliers and the competitors of Mondi and potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors: and 3 general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in Mondis principal geographical markets or fluctuations of exchange rates and interest rates.
Mondi expressly disclaims a any warranty or liability as to accuracy or completeness of the information provided herein: and b any obligation or undertaking to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to update any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in Mondis expectations or any events that occur or circumstances that arise after the date of making any forward-looking statements, unless required to do so by applicable law or any regulatory body applicable to Mondi, including the JSE Limited and the LSE.
This document includes market share estimates prepared by the Group based on industry publications and management estimates.
Primary sources in relation to market share estimates are: RISI, POYRY, Eurosac, Henry Poole Consulting, Freedonia, EMGE, Eurograph delivery statistics, Pyrabelisk and Alexander Watson Associates.
Contents Overview About us 04 Joint chairmens statement 08 Strategic report Chief executives review 14 Our external context 20 Our strategy 22 Our business model 24 Our products 28 Our principal risks 30 Sustainability at Mondi 34 Business review 38 Chief financial officers review 54 Governance Board of directors 60 Corporate governance 64 DLC executive committees and company secretaries 90 Remuneration report 94 Other statutory information 114 Financial statements and other information Directors responsibility statement 118 Independent auditors reports 120 Financial statements 126 Notes to the financial statements 131 Shareholder information 192 For more information visit: www.
