Governance 81 Non-audit services A policy is in place that governs the provision of non-audit services provided by Deloitte to Mondi, including the requirement for the pre-approval of such services.
The committee monitors compliance with the policy, receiving reports at each meeting detailing all approved non-audit services.
This enables regular oversight of a key threat to auditor independence and objectivity.
In order to limit the non-audit services provided by the external auditor, the policy restricts those services by type and monetary limit.
The auditors will only be engaged on matters where specific knowledge and understanding of Mondi is required.
The committee has agreed delegation limits enabling requests for the provision of non-audit services to be approved by either the chief financial officer or chairman of the committee in certain circumstances.
Requests falling outside these delegated limits are referred to the committee for consideration.
The policy also clearly defines those services that the auditor is prohibited from providing, for example financial information systems design and internal audit outsourcing.
The breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte, including the split between audit and non-audit fees, is included in note 5 to the financial statements on page 137.
The non-audit fees for 2014 represent 11% of the audit fee paid.
Internal audit The audit committee has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and appoints and discharges the heads of internal audit the equivalent of the chief audit executive as envisaged by King III.
The heads of internal audit have direct access to, and responsibility to, the committee and work closely with the committee in liaison with Deloitte.
Each year the committee considers and approves the internal audit plan, which is designed to focus on the Groups key risks to ensure that they are managed effectively within the context of our business objectives and that appropriate internal controls are in place.
The committee ensures that all material operations are covered and that there is an appropriate degree of financial and geographical coverage.
Reports are given at each committee meeting providing an update on activities, progress against plan, results from audits carried out and managements response to address any areas highlighted for improvement.
The committee will consider deviations from plan as the need arises during the year, usually in response to a material acquisition or change in the Groups risk profile highlighted through audit reports and through matters raised via the confidential reporting hotline, Speakout.
The committee regularly challenges the nature and speed of managements response to issues raised in audits and to Speakout messages in order to be satisfied that this has been appropriate to the circumstances.
Maintaining sound oversight and control of activities through the use of internal audit reviews is considered by the committee to be a key element of its work.
The committee also monitors the staffing and resources available to the internal audit function and the quality of those resources.
The last external review of the internal audit function was carried out in 2010 by .
That review concluded positively on the effectiveness of the internal audit function while making some recommendations to further improve on this.
Since that review the committee has monitored progress with the implementation of the recommendations and annually reviews the effectiveness of the function.
The next external review has been scheduled for 2015.
The committee has concluded that the heads of internal audit provide appropriate leadership of the internal audit function which remains effective in carrying out its remit.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
