Governance 76 Corporate governance continued Activities of the audit committee during 2014 continued August 2014 Reviewed the half-yearly results and the announcement of those results, with input provided by reports from the Group financial controller and Deloitte Received a presentation on the governance and regulatory developments regarding external audit tendering October 2014 Reviewed the interim management statement Reviewed the restated segmental information arising from the refinement of the Groups organisational structure Considered the implications of new accounting pronouncements assisted by a report from the Group financial controller Reviewed and approved the external audit plan, fees and engagement letters with input provided by the chief financial officer, Group financial controller and Deloitte Reviewed IT risk management, security and governance assisted by a presentation from the information management director Reviewed and updated the committee terms of reference to include recent governance developments Agreed the committees work programme for 2015 In addition, there are several matters that are considered at every meeting of the committee, including the report from the internal audit function explained in more detail on page 81, a more in-depth review of two or three of the most significant Group risks and the review of non-audit services provided by Deloitte.
While the committee annually receives a presentation on IT risks this has been extended to ensure that security is reviewed in response to the increased focus on potential cyber security threats.
A revised IT security policy was reviewed and adopted during the year.
The committee always meets prior to meetings of the Boards to enable the committee to report to the Boards and provide any necessary recommendations or advice relevant for their deliberations.
Significant issues related to the financial statements The audit committee has considered each of the following items based on discussions with, and submissions by, management and satisfied itself as to the accounting treatment and presentation thereof.
The most significant items were discussed with the external auditors during the planning stage and on completion of the audit.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 77 The key considerations in relation to the 2014 financial statements were: Matter considered Action Special items are non-recurring financial items which the The committee has critically reviewed each item presented Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face by management as being special to ensure that the items of the income statement to assist in the understanding of are non-recurring in nature as well as the quantification and the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
The classification of an item as special is based on judgement and generally must exceed 5 million and or be material in the context of the current years financial performance.
In 2014, the special items relate to the loss on redemption of the 280 million Eurobond assumed as part of the acquisition of Nordenia in 2012: restructuring activities and related impairments in Packaging Paper, Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging: the reversal of a provision for transaction costs for the 2012 Nordenia acquisition: transaction costs related to the bags and kraft paper business acquired from Graphic Packaging International, Inc. : and a gain on settlement of a 2007 legal case.
See note 3 in the financial statements.
In 2014, the Group concluded a number of business The committee has reviewed the significant assumptions combinations, the most significant of which was the 74 million made by management and considered the explanations where acquisition of the bags and kraft paper business of Graphic the fair value differs significantly from the carrying value in the Packaging International, Inc. underlying financial statements.
The committee is satisfied that the fair values recognised are appropriate and that there is no On acquisition, the Group determined the fair value of assets goodwill applicable to the acquisition.
acquired and liabilities assumed, based on its own experience in the industry and input from experts.
See note 23 in the financial statements.
The Group operates a number of large, capital-intensive In approving significant capital projects, the Boards approve facilities and incurs significant amounts of capital expenditure.
the underlying assumptions including the estimated useful In 2014, the Group incurred 562 million of capital expenditure.
The committee has reviewed the submissions by management in respect of the significant Significant projects completed in 2014 included the 155,000 capital expenditure during the year, summarising the tonne per annum bleached kraft paper machine in the Czech depreciation rates applied, estimated residual values and the Republic, the recovery boiler in Slovakia and the 100,000 carrying values of the Groups tangible assets.
tonne per annum pulp dryer in Russia.
The committee has interrogated management and satisfied See note 12 in the financial statements.
itself of the appropriateness of the assumptions made, the consistency of those assumptions compared to the initial approvals and the basis on which any changes were made.
The committee has also considered the internal audit reports completed in respect of the Groups procurement and capital expenditure processes, in which there were no significant weaknesses identified.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014 Governance 78 Corporate governance continued The key considerations in relation to the 2014 financial statements were: continued Matter considered Action The Group has operations in a number of geographical The committee receives regular reports from management locations, is subject to a number of tax jurisdictions and about ongoing tax audits and new legislative developments that is exposed to a number of cross-border and complex may impact the Groups tax positions.
The committee has evaluated the Groups most significant tax See note 8 in the financial statements.
exposures, the corporate judgements and related tax provisions recognised by management and satisfied itself that these are appropriate.
The Groups operations are exposed to a number of risks, refer The critical underlying assumptions and outcomes were to pages 30 to 33.
In addition to property, plant and equipment reviewed by the committee and compared to the Groups of 3,432 million, goodwill of 545 million is recognised as an budget and the current macroeconomic environment.
asset in the statement of financial position.
The committee considered the sensitivities underlying the As set out in the accounting policies, the Group reviews its primary assumptions to determine the consequences that assets at least annually and whenever there is any indication reasonably possible changes in such assumptions may have that certain of its assets may be impaired.
on the recognised value of the underlying assets.
See note 11 in the financial statements.
The committee has satisfied itself that there is no impairment of goodwill and that the impairments of property, plant and equipment recognised are directly related to approved restructuring activities.
Significant judgement is required in determining the The assumptions, and the basis on which they were assumptions to be applied for the valuation of the Groups determined, were evaluated by the committee and compared afforestation asset and retirement benefit obligations.
both to prior years and market developments during 2014.
Such assumptions are based, as far as possible, on observable market data and, in the case of the retirement benefit obligations, the input and advice of actuaries.
The most significant assumptions and sensitivities are disclosed in note 13 for afforestation and 20 for retirement benefits in the financial statements.
Mondi Group | Integrated report and financial statements 2014
