Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Enquiring about your shareholding Moneysupermarket House If you want to ask, or need any information, about your St Davids Park shareholding, please contact our registrar see contact details in Ewloe the opposite column.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, Chester CH5 3UZ you can access the Groups shareholder portal at No.
com where you can view and manage all aspects of your shareholding securely.
com Investor relations website The investor relations section of our website, Company Secretary www.
com, provides further information for Darren Drabble anyone interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and share price, Company announcements including the half year and full year results announcements and associated Financial advisors stockbrokers presentations are also published there.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited One Cabot Square Dividend mandates London E14 4QJ If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account, you should contact our registrar see contact UBS Limited details in the opposite column or visit the Groups shareholder 1 Finsbury Avenue portal at www.
com where you can set London EC2M 2PP up or amend a dividend mandate.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post Auditor and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
KPMG LLP 1 St Peters Square Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Manchester M2 3AE You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application Solicitors form is available from our registrar see contact details on the Herbert Smith Freehills LLP left.
Exchange House Primrose Street Share dealing service London EC2A 2HS You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient way via the Capita share dealing service either online Addleshaw Goddard LLP www.
Calls cost 100 Barbirolli Square 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open Manchester M2 3AB 8.00am-4.30pm Monday-Friday.
Principal bankers Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to Lloyds Banking Group plc encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the City Office Company.
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Financial PR The Maitland Consultancy Limited Electronic communications Orion House You can elect to receive shareholder communications 5 Upper St. Martins Lane electronically by contacting our registrar see contact details in London WC2H 9EA the opposite column.
This will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
When you register, you Registrar will be sent a notification to say when shareholder Capita Asset Services communications are available on our website and you will be The Registry provided with a link to that information.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements Kent BR3 4TU This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and Telephone: 0871 200 1536 UK unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday-Friday of the Group to be materially different from any future results, 44 0 20 3008 2245 overseas performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing E-mail: @capita.
co. uk Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, revise or change any forward looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring on or after the date of this Annual Report.
