Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 1 Corporate information The Consolidated Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 26 February 2015.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report that accompanies these Financial Statements.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis see Governance Report on page 52 under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments.
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing these Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below.
Significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key accounting estimates and judgements are: Goodwill impairment Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of the assumptions used and key sensitivities are set out in note 13 to these Financial Statements.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Determining the amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations and the net costs of providing such benefits requires assumptions to be made concerning long term interest rates, inflation, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity of current and future pensioners.
Changes in these assumptions could significantly impact the amount of the obligations or the cost of providing such benefits.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Details of the assumptions made are set out in note 33.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these judgemental matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Tax provisions Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgements to be made regarding the result of negotiations with and enquiries from tax authorities in a number of jurisdictions.
The assessments made are based on advice from independent tax advisors and the status of ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities.
98 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group Income Statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group Income Statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Certain comparatives have been reclassified to be consistent with the current years changes in presentation.
Changes in accounting policies and the adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations which have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements the standard establishes the principles for the presentation of consolidated accounts when an entity controls one or more other entities.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements the standard determines the type of joint arrangement by assessing the rights and obligations, and accounts for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities the standard sets out the requirements to disclose information that enables users of accounts to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of these interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group Balance Sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the Income Statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Financial Statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups Financial Statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest financial statements under the equity method of accounting.
Income Statement presentation The Group Income Statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the Financial Statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results excluding loss on the sale of a business, intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief thereon.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face of the Income Statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services and related activities in the UK, North America and Europe.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
com 99 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued Rail revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies TOCs, based principally on agreed models of route usage by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, net franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division DfT Rail and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue.
Net franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales.
UK Bus and Spanish Coach and Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the Income Statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
North American Bus revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance income Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the Income Statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the Income Statement as the related expenditure is expensed.
Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the other business segments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Groups segments comprise: UK Bus: UK Coach: Rail: North American Bus: Spanish Coach and Bus: and Central functions.
These segments are described in more detail in the Business review accompanying these Financial Statements.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the Balance Sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the Income Statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the Income Statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the Income Statement through operating costs.
Finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Contract mobilisation costs over the life of the franchise 15 years Brands over the life of the brand 5 years Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment.
The useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups only indefinite life intangible asset is goodwill.
Software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the Income Statement over its estimated useful life 3 to 7 years.
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
com 101 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the Income Statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post-acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property 15 to 40 years improvements Public service vehicles 8 to 15 years Plant and equipment, fixtures 3 to 15 years and fittings Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of non-financial assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated risk adjusted future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
102 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income Statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the Income Statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date.
The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the Income Statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
In the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, an adjustment is made for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
These liabilities are carried on the Balance Sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the Income Statement.
Other All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
com 103 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel derivatives and interest rate derivatives to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any material ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Groups interest rate derivatives are designated as fair value hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the Income Statement for the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk free interest rate.
Foreign currency derivatives are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Foreign currency forward contracts are also used to hedge transactional exposures.
These contracts are not hedge accounted and all gains and losses are taken directly to the Income Statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in-first out basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Contract mobilisation costs Costs associated with securing new rail franchises and other significant non-rail contracts are expensed as incurred up to the point when a bid is awarded.
From this point in time, appropriate costs are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the Income Statement over the life of the contract.
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than these contracts are expensed as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
104 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Accounting policies continued Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses, the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall deductible within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within five years, and the provisions have been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 33.
The Balance Sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date and the fair value of plan assets.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the Income Statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise.
Our UK TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payment The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each Balance Sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where the expected future outflow is not probable.
com 105 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale.
The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately in the Income Statement.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the Income Statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the Income Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income Statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective, and have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard deals with the classification, recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The standard establishes the principles for reporting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The Directors assess that IFRS 15 is not likely to have a significant impact on future financial statements, but that IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of the Groups financial instruments.
106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 3 Revenue 2014 2013 m m Rendering of services 1,865.0 1,888.8 Rental income 2.4 2.5 Revenue 1,867.4 1,891.3 Finance income 6.5 6.8 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,873.9 1,898.1 4 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.56 1.65 1.66 1.56 Canadian dollar 1.81 1.82 1.76 1.61 Euro 1.29 1.24 1.20 1.18 If the results for the year to 31 December 2013 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2014, North American Bus would have achieved normalised operating profit of 58.9m on revenue of 607m, compared to normalised operating profit of 62.6m on revenue of 645m as reported, and Spanish Coach and Bus would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 77.4m on revenue of 536m, compared to normalised operating profit of 81.5m on revenue of 565m as reported.
5 Segmental analysis The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide and the geographical market they operate in.
Commentary on the segments is included in the Strategic Report.
All revenue in the Rail segment is generated in the UK.
Inter-segment sales in UK Bus represent internal commission on ticket sales.
Inter-segment sales in UK Coach represent rail replacement services provided to Rail.
Inter-segment trading is undertaken on standard arms length commercial terms.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue.
com 107 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 5 Segmental analysis continued Operating profit is analysed by reportable segment as follows: Intangible Intangible amortisation amortisation Normalised and Normalised and operating exceptional Segment operating exceptional Segment profit items result profit items result 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 m m m m m m UK Bus 34.0 7.0 27.0 31.2 1.4 29.8 UK Coach 28.0 3.5 24.5 24.5 1.9 22.6 North American Bus 59.5 27.5 32.0 62.6 18.1 44.5 Spanish Coach and Bus 75.8 7.2 68.6 81.5 37.2 44.3 Central functions 12.2 11.2 23.4 14.3 6.4 20.7 Core non-rail businesses 185.1 56.4 128.7 185.5 65.0 120.5 German Coach 1.7 2.1 3.8 2.4 0.7 3.1 Non-rail businesses 183.4 58.5 124.9 183.1 65.7 117.4 Rail 9.7 20.4 10.7 9.8 9.3 0.5 Operating profit from continuing operations 193.1 78.9 114.2 192.9 75.0 117.9 Loss on disposal of business 4.3 Share of results of associates 0.3 0.6 Net finance costs 48.0 49.8 Profit before tax 66.5 64.4 Tax charge 5.9 6.1 Profit for the year 60.6 58.3 Intangible asset amortisation is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 2014 2013 m m UK Coach 0.5 0.3 North American Bus 11.3 13.5 16.3 35.4 Spanish Coach and Bus German Coach 0.4 Central functions 0.1 0.1 Total 28.6 49.3 Exceptional costs income are analysed by reportable segment as follows: 2014 2013 m m UK Bus 7.0 1.4 UK Coach 3.0 1.6 Rail 20.4 9.3 North American Bus 16.2 4.6 9.1 1.8 Spanish Coach and Bus German Coach 1.7 0.7 Central functions 11.1 6.3 Total 50.3 25.7 108 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 5 Segmental analysis continued Exceptional costs income are further analysed by type as follows: 2014 2013 m m 17.0 7.4 UK rail bids Other rail bids 2.8 1.9 Other business development 5.7 6.4 25.5 15.7 Restructuring 25.8 5.4 Strategic rationalisation 18.3 Exceptional fuel credits 19.3 North America acquisition and integration 4.6 50.3 25.7 In the year to 31 December 2014, exceptional costs of 17.0m 2013: 7.4m were incurred in relation to UK rail bids.
This includes the costs of bidding for the Essex Thameside, Crossrail and ScotRail rail franchises.
In addition, 2.8m 2013: 1.9m was incurred in bidding for regional rail opportunities in Germany.
During the year, the Group secured the 15 year Essex Thameside UK rail franchise, and was recently announced as preferred bidder for two contracts to operate the Nuremberg S-Bahn commuter rail service.
5.7m 2013: 6.4m of business development costs have been incurred across the Group as part of a major investment to create other new contract and passenger business pipelines in new markets.
This included costs incurred to win a ten-year contract to operate bus services in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Exceptional restructuring costs of 25.8m 2013: 5.4m have been incurred across the Group, including costs to rationalise structural overheads in UK Bus, Spain, North America and Central functions, and onerous contract costs incurred on exit of the German Coach operation.
To improve returns on capital and exit poor performing contracts, the Spanish and North American operations undertook a major exercise in the year to rationalise onerous contracts and to provide against future losses.
The cost of this strategic rationalisation exercise was 18.3m 2013: nil.
Exceptional fuel credits predominantly relate to Spanish fuel duty credits: partly offset by ineffectiveness of 2.5m on the Groups fuel hedges following the exceptional volatility in market prices during the year.
In 2014 The Court of Justice of the EU ruled that Spains tax on the retail sales of hydrocarbons fuel duty tax was contrary to the EUs legal framework regarding taxation and that, accordingly, all fuel duty tax collected from the inception of the tax in 2005 to the cessation of the tax in January 2013 should be repaid.
As at year end, the Groups Spanish business had received 6.3m of fuel duty refunds.
A further 15.5m has been assessed as virtually certain and therefore recognised as a receivable at year end, bringing the total amount recognised in the year to 21.8m.
Exceptional costs of nil 2013: 4.6m were incurred in relation to the acquisition and integration of school bus and transit businesses in North America.
The net capital expenditure, after allowing for the movements in capital creditors, disposal of fixed assets and payments to acquire intangibles, was 50.5m 2013: 82.6m.
The majority of non-current assets in the Rail segment are located in the UK.
Capital expenditure comprises property, plant and equipment additions as disclosed above and in note 14.
In 2014, software intangible assets of 6.0m 2013: 3.4m were acquired as disclosed in note 13.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated assets liabilities assets liabilities 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 83.7 40.9 Other debt receivables 0.8 1.0 Current tax 1.3 23.3 1.6 22.9 6.8 7.4 Available for sale investments Derivative financial assets liabilities 28.0 71.9 21.6 3.5 Borrowings, excluding finance leases 687.2 694.6 Dividends payable 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax 29.9 66.0 16.7 75.1 Total 150.5 849.0 89.2 796.7 110 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 6 Operating costs 2014 2013 m m Cost of inventories recognised in expense 70.9 75.2 Staff costs including exceptional costs of 15.5m 2013: 7.7m 850.3 856.2 Depreciation Owned assets including exceptional costs of 3.4m 2013: nil 86.4 88.3 Leased assets 18.5 19.1 0.8 1.1 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 29.0 27.5 Operating lease charges Rolling stock: capital element Public service vehicles 9.1 6.0 Other 9.8 8.1 Plant and equipment 47.9 41.6 Fixed track access 7.2 13.6 Other 22.5 23.6 Land and buildings 29.7 37.2 Foreign exchange differences 0.5 0.9 Other charges including exceptional expense of 31.4m 2013: 18.0m 622.2 608.5 Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation 1,724.6 1,724.1 Intangible asset amortisation 28.6 49.3 Total operating costs 1,753.2 1,773.4 The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications.
The non-capital element of the lease charge includes heavy maintenance charges and charges based on mileage.
An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditors is provided below: 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.7 0.6 0.2 0.1 Other services 1.2 1.0 www.
com 111 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 733.6 738.4 Social security costs 103.7 104.8 Pension costs note 33 9.9 9.9 Share-based payment note 8 3.1 3.1 850.3 856.2 The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 Managerial and administrative 3,869 3,941 Operational 38,058 38,321 41,927 42,262 Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Directors of the parent Company: 2014 2013 m m Basic salaries 1.0 1.0 Benefits 0.4 0.3 1.4 1.4 Performance-related bonuses Share-based payment 1.1 1.0 3.9 3.7 b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2014 under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of Future Exercise share options share options exercise 2014 2013 price periods 16,286 Executive Share Option Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 10,062,870 10,498,399 nil 2015-2020 Share Matching Plan 360,233 724,494 nil 2015 Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan 478,820 846,474 nil 2015 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 258,525 262,171 129p-599p 2015-2024 Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 134,598 142,504 nil 2015 11,295,046 12,490,328 i Executive Share Option Plan The Company operated tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management positions.
Options granted by this Plan had a maximum term of ten years.
The options vested after three years subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share.
From 2005, executive share option grants were replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in ii.
ii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees.
Under the LTIP, a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director.
In addition, a Matching Award may be made, as described in iii.
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on both the achievement of target growth in earnings per share and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies.
If the performance conditions are met, Performance and Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
112 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued Since 2011, HMRC approved share option plans were added as an appendix to the LTIP Approved Plan.
A participant can only hold an option under the Approved Plan over shares with a market value of up to 30,000 at the grant date.
Options under the Approved Plan are granted in tandem with the usual options under the LTIP.
The options are structured such that on exercise, the proportion of the gain in respect of the first 30,000 worth of shares as measured at the date of grant will be delivered under the Approved Option and the LTIP option shall be scaled back to deliver the remaining gross gain that would have been delivered had the option been granted alone.
The excess shares under the LTIP will be forfeited such that both awards will never become fully vested.
Since 2012, a supplementary five-year long term incentive award was granted to the Chief Executive subject to targets linked to the Groups five-year plan.
This comprised a Performance Award with no matching element.
If performance conditions are met, the Performance award will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to twelve months following the vesting date.
iii Share Matching Plan the Plan The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new LTIP arrangements described in ii.
Under the Plan, a Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares which are then matched by the Company on up to a 4:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the gross-tax equivalent of the amount invested.
The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
iv Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees.
Under the scheme, part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest three years after the award date.
The options must be exercised within six months of vesting.
v West Midlands Travel Ltd WMT Long Service Option Scheme The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years.
The options are exercisable between three and ten years following the grant date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
vi TWM Share Incentive Plan the SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
At the end of the year, 1,079 2013: 1,079 National Express Group PLC shares were held for the benefit of the Trustee.
Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived.
vii Executive Deferred Bonus Plan As detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and that these would vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Directors continuing employment.
The deferred forfeitable ordinary shares are awarded under the terms of The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards: awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Directors continued employment with the Company: the Committee may decide that participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the grant date and the date of vesting: and the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death or disability.
In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
com 113 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 8 Share-based payments The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups Income Statement for the year is as follows: 2014 2013 m m 3.1 3.1 Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations There were exceptional costs included within the charge during the year of 0.7m 2013: 0.1m.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group had seven share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of share price of share price options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 278,457 380 319,136 368 31,876 280 14,840 252 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 9,120 354 5,892 377 Exercised during the year 10,721 192 10,501 196 Expired during the year 31,967 359 39,126 276 Outstanding at 31 December 258,525 379 278,457 380 Exercisable at 31 December 188,470 422 225,895 411 Options with a nil exercise price: 12,211,871 nil 9,528,570 nil At 1 January Granted during the year 3,985,698 nil 5,106,185 nil Forfeited during the year 1,657,616 nil 209,721 nil Exercised during the year 962,147 nil 1,426,737 nil Expired during the year 2,541,285 nil 786,426 nil Outstanding at 31 December 11,036,521 nil 12,211,871 nil Exercisable at 31 December 58,755 nil nil 11,295,046 12,490,328 Total outstanding at 31 December Total exercisable at 31 December 247,225 225,895 The options outstanding at 31 December 2014 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 599p 2013: between 129p and 599p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: Exercise price p 2014 2013 0-350 118,916 104,166 351-650 139,609 174,291 258,525 278,457 The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year 2013: one year.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 280p 2013: 201p.
114 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 8 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 2014 2013 2014 2013 1.73% 1.19% 1.13%-1.81% 0.35%-0.84% Risk free interest rate Expected volatility 30.0% 38.1% 30.0% 29.2%-44.2% Peer group volatility 28.0%-30.0% 36.8%-44.3% Expected option life in years 5 years 7 years 3-5 years 3-5 years Expected dividend yield 3.64% 4.73% 3.58% 4.64%-4.88% 275p 206p 280p 201p Weighted average share price at grant date Weighted average exercise price at grant date 280p 252p nil nil Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 51p 32p 194p 128p Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% 2013: 24% of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs 2014 2013 m m 47.5 50.2 Bond and bank interest payable Finance lease interest payable 4.2 4.4 Other interest payable 0.5 0.2 Unwind of provision discounting 1.2 1.3 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension obligations 1.1 0.5 Finance costs 54.5 56.6 Other financial income 6.5 6.8 Net finance costs 48.0 49.8 Of which, from financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 2.7 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 46.7 48.7 Derivatives used for hedging 5.8 5.9 Loan fee amortisation 2.1 2.4 www.
com 115 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge in the year 2014 2013 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 0.6 3.9 Overseas taxation 14.3 14.4 Current income tax charge 13.7 18.3 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 0.9 Total current income tax charge 14.6 18.3 Deferred taxation note 26 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 11.3 11.8 2.6 0.4 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas Deferred tax credit 8.7 12.2 5.9 6.1 Total tax charge The tax charge is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 27.7 32.5 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 21.8 26.4 5.9 6.1 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items is analysed as follows: Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation 10.9 17.4 Tax credit on exceptional items 10.9 6.8 Tax credit on loss on disposal of business 2.2 21.8 26.4 b Tax on items recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 2014 2013 m m Current taxation: Charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.1 0.1 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax charge credit on actuarial losses 2.3 3.7 Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges 13.6 0.3 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange differences 0.1 2.1 1.0 0.1 Deferred tax credit charge on share-based payments 12.4 6.0 116 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 10 Taxation continued c Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2014 2013 m m Profit before income tax 66.5 64.4 Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 21.50% 2013: 23.25% 14.3 15.0 Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation 1.0 1.8 Recognition of a deferred tax asset for previously unrecognised tax losses 0.5 0.1 4.9 0.1 Effect of reduction in tax rates note 10 g Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax 3.5 0.4 European reinvestment relief and other tax credits 2.3 1.2 Effect of overseas tax rates 9.4 5.2 Tax on European goodwill and intangibles 5.3 6.1 7.8 6.8 Overseas financing deductions Non-deductible expenditure 0.5 1.2 5.9 6.1 Total tax charge reported in the Income Statement note 10 a d Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2013: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax.
There are no temporary differences 2013: nil associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise.
e Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the Financial Statements amount to 18.7m 2013: 11.1m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future taxable profits.
In addition, there are capital losses of 1.1m 2013: 3.1m which have not been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent on capital gains arising.
The 1.1m 2013: 3.1m of unrecognised capital losses will expire at various dates from 2015 through to 2018, as follows: m 2015 0.8 2016 0.1 0.1 2017 2018 0.1 1.1 f Deferred tax included in the Income Statement 2014 2013 m m Accelerated capital allowances 11.1 6.8 Other short term temporary differences 0.4 11.0 Utilisation of losses 2.8 5.6 Deferred tax credit 8.7 12.2 Details on the Balance Sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 26. g Factors that may affect future tax charges On 21 March 2012, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a 1% reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 24% effective from 1 April 2012, along with two subsequent reductions to 23% from 1 April 2013 and 22% from 1 April 2014.
On 20 March 2013, in the Chancellors 2013 Budget Statement, further reductions to 21% on 1 April 2014 and 20% on 1 April 2015 were announced.
At the Balance Sheet date, a rate of 20% 2013: 21% was substantively enacted.
The change in rate from 21% to 20% has resulted in a tax charge of 0.3m to the Income Statement.
In June 2014 the Spanish Government announced a tax rate reduction from 30% to 28% during 2015 and then from 28% to 25% in 2016.
At the Balance Sheet date, a rate of 28% was recognised.
The change in rate from 30% to 28% has resulted in a 2.7m credit to the Income Statement.
com 117 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 11 Dividends paid and proposed 2014 2013 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2013 paid of 6.75p per share 2012: 6.60p 34.5 33.7 Ordinary interim dividend for 2014 of 3.35p per share 2013: 3.25p 17.1 16.6 51.6 50.3 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2014 of 6.95p per share 2013: 6.75p per share 35.5 34.5 12 Earnings per share 2014 2013 Basic earnings per share 11.6p 11.1p Normalised basic earnings per share 22.7p 21.5p Diluted earnings per share 11.5p 11.1p 22.7p 21.4p Normalised diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 59.1m 2013: 56.8m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Groups employee benefit trust note 31 which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 2014 2013 Basic weighted average shares 511,125,312 511,114,989 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 970,374 1,425,106 Diluted weighted average shares 512,095,686 512,540,095 The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business operations more appropriately.
The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 2014 2013 Basic EPS Diluted EPS Basic EPS Diluted EPS m p p m p p 59.1 11.6 11.5 56.8 11.1 11.1 Profit attributable to equity shareholders Intangible amortisation 28.6 5.6 5.6 49.3 9.7 9.6 Exceptional items 50.3 9.8 9.8 25.7 5.0 5.0 Loss on disposal of business 4.3 0.8 0.8 Tax relief on the above items 21.8 4.3 4.2 26.4 5.1 5.1 Normalised profit from continuing operations and attributable to equity shareholders 116.2 22.7 22.7 109.7 21.5 21.4 118 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 13 Intangible assets Contract Customer mobilisation Total finite Brand contracts Software costs life assets Goodwill Total m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2014 525.2 2.3 33.0 560.5 1,127.1 1,687.6 Acquisitions 4.2 4.2 1.6 5.8 Additions 0.7 6.0 1.6 8.3 1.0 9.3 4.0 2.3 7.3 9.0 9.0 Reclassifications Disposals 0.5 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange 21.0 1.2 19.8 34.5 54.3 At 31 December 2014 513.1 47.0 1.6 561.7 1,095.2 1,656.9 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2014 360.1 0.8 19.0 379.9 84.2 464.1 Charge for year 22.7 5.9 28.6 28.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 Disposals Reclassifications 1.6 0.8 7.2 8.0 8.0 Foreign exchange 19.2 0.8 18.4 2.3 20.7 At 31 December 2014 365.2 32.4 397.6 81.9 479.5 Net book value: At 31 December 2014 147.9 14.6 1.6 164.1 1,013.3 1,177.4 At 1 January 2014 165.1 1.5 14.0 180.6 1,042.9 1,223.5 www.
com 119 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 13 Intangible assets continued Customer Total finite Brand contracts Software life assets Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2013 518.8 2.3 31.9 553.0 1,121.3 1,674.3 Acquisitions 3.7 3.7 3.9 7.6 3.5 3.4 6.9 3.4 3.5 Additions Transfer to property, plant 3.3 0.2 3.5 3.3 0.2 and equipment Disposals 0.3 0.3 0.3 Companies divested 2.2 0.4 2.6 3.6 6.2 Foreign exchange 4.7 1.4 3.3 5.6 8.9 At 31 December 2013 525.2 2.3 33.0 560.5 1,127.1 1,687.6 Amortisation and impairment: 312.0 0.3 15.7 328.0 83.4 411.4 At 1 January 2013 Charge for year 44.3 0.5 4.5 49.3 49.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 Companies divested 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 Transfer to property, plant 0.1 0.1 0.1 and equipment 4.0 0.8 3.2 0.8 4.0 Foreign exchange At 31 December 2013 360.1 0.8 19.0 379.9 84.2 464.1 Net book value: At 31 December 2013 165.1 1.5 14.0 180.6 1,042.9 1,223.5 At 1 January 2013 206.8 2.0 16.2 225.0 1,037.9 1,262.9 Goodwill has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2014 2013 m m UK Coach 13.2 13.2 North American Bus 335.0 319.9 Spanish Coach and Bus 665.1 709.8 1,013.3 1,042.9 The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a five-year period.
The assumptions, including growth rates and operating margins, are based on historical experience and detailed budget plans as well as managements assessment of current market and economic conditions.
Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts.
120 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 13 Intangible assets continued The calculation of value in use for each group of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the assumptions over discount rates and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan.
The key assumptions used for the cash-generating units are as follows: Growth rate used to Pre-tax discount extrapolate cash flows rate applied to beyond five-year period of cash flow projections management plan 2014 2013 2014 2013 UK Coach 8.5% 9.4% 2.0% 2.0% North American Bus 8.6% 9.1% 2.5% 2.5% Spanish Coach and Bus 8.5% 8.6% 2.0% 2.0% The value in use of the North American Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by 169.4m 2013: 161.1m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 140 basis points 2013: 150 basis points or a reduction in the growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 160 basis points 2013: 150 basis points.
The value in use of the Spanish Coach and Bus division exceeds its carrying amount by 107.1m 2013: 212.9m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 70 basis points 2013: 140 basis points or a reduction in growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 70 basis points 2013: 150 basis points.
The headroom has decreased for Spanish Coach and Bus, reflecting a cautious approach in forecasting revenue and profit based on an assessment of the bidding and contract renewal environment, and the response to increased levels of competition.
North America has improved headroom, as an increase in the asset base is more than offset by future profit projections.
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on key assumptions will not lead to an impairment of goodwill allocated to UK Coach.
Sensitivities to other assumptions In North American Bus, a reduction in operating profit margin of 160 basis points 2013: 170 basis points will result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
In Spanish Coach and Bus, a reduction in operating profit margin of 110 basis points 2013: 200 basis points will also result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
com 121 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 14 Property, plant and equipment Long Plant and leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2014 100.8 4.8 1,178.5 174.1 1,458.2 Additions 2.2 0.4 83.8 12.8 99.2 Acquisitions 1.5 1.5 1.9 0.4 21.2 6.2 29.7 Disposals Reclassifications 0.1 0.2 9.4 9.3 Foreign exchange 4.4 0.4 5.1 2.4 1.3 At 31 December 2014 96.7 5.1 1,247.9 168.9 1,518.6 Depreciation: At 1 January 2014 17.2 2.7 547.9 139.0 706.8 Charge for the year 2.4 0.7 91.6 10.2 104.9 Disposals 1.0 0.4 10.5 4.8 16.7 Reclassifications 0.1 0.1 0.4 7.0 7.4 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.3 3.2 2.0 1.1 At 31 December 2014 18.1 3.4 631.8 135.4 788.7 Net book value: 78.6 1.7 616.1 33.5 729.9 At 31 December 2014 At 1 January 2014 83.6 2.1 630.6 35.1 751.4 122 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Long Plant and leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2013 98.5 4.1 1,139.9 164.3 1,406.8 Additions 2.2 0.9 70.0 11.7 84.8 Acquisitions 2.5 2.5 1.3 20.6 2.2 24.1 Disposals Companies divested 0.6 0.6 Transfer from intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange 1.4 0.2 12.7 0.1 11.4 At 31 December 2013 100.8 4.8 1,178.5 174.1 1,458.2 Depreciation: At 1 January 2013 15.4 2.3 473.6 128.1 619.4 Charge for the year 2.5 0.7 91.7 12.5 107.4 Disposals 0.7 9.0 1.7 11.4 Companies divested 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Transfer from intangible assets Foreign exchange 0.3 8.1 8.4 At 31 December 2013 17.2 2.7 547.9 139.0 706.8 Net book value: At 31 December 2013 83.6 2.1 630.6 35.1 751.4 At 1 January 2013 83.1 1.8 666.3 36.2 787.4 Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Long leasehold property cost 0.8 depreciation Net long leasehold property 0.8 257.5 256.5 Public service vehicles cost depreciation 102.6 85.2 154.9 171.3 Net public service vehicles Plant and equipment cost 0.2 depreciation 0.1 Net plant and equipment 0.1 Total net book value 154.9 172.2 Finance leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
com 123 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 15 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the results and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
The Groups train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain Eurolines UK Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe Airlinks Airport Services Limited Operation of coach services The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services NXET Trains Limited Operation of train passenger services Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited trading as Travel Dundee Operation of bus services Incorporated in the US Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Petermann LLC Operation of school bus services National Express Transit Corporation Operation of transit bus services National Express Transit Services Corporation Operation of transit bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain NEX Continental Holdings SL Holding company for operating companies Tury Express SA Holding company for operating companies General Tecnica Industrial SLU Holding company for operating companies Incorporated in Morocco GAT Groupe Alsa Transport SA Marrakech Operation of bus services TVAM Transport fide Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc SA Marrakech Operation of bus services Alsa Tanger SA Operation of bus services ACA Alsa City Agadir SA Operation of bus services The main holding companies of the ALSA Group.
The Group has no material non-controlling interests that require separate disclosure.
124 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 16 Derivative financial assets and available for sale investments 2014 2013 m m Available for sale investments Unlisted ordinary shares 6.8 7.4 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 26.5 17.6 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 0.9 Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets 26.5 18.5 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 0.9 Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange derivatives 1.5 2.2 Derivative financial instruments included in current assets 1.5 3.1 Further information on the Groups use of fuel, interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives is included in note 30.
Available for sale investments 2014 2013 m m Cost or valuation and net book value: At 1 January 7.4 7.1 0.1 Additions Provided in the year 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.5 0.2 At 31 December 6.8 7.4 The principal available for sale investments are as follows: 2014 2013 Proportion Proportion held held Name Country of registration Class of share % % Spain Ordinary shares 15 15 Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Various investments within ALSA and Continental Auto Spain Ordinary shares 1-16 1-16 www.
com 125 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 17 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2014 2013 m m 2.7 2.4 Joint ventures Associates 2.7 2.7 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 5.4 5.1 The Groups share of post-tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2014 2013 m m 0.2 0.2 Share of joint ventures profit Share of associates profit 0.1 0.4 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.3 0.6 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration Activity % Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Kingdom of Bahrain Operation of bus services 50 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. During the year the Group formed a joint venture entity, Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. to operate a ten-year bus services contract in the Kingdom of Bahrain, commencing in 2015.
The Groups share of the investment in the joint venture at year end was 0.2m.
The financial information of Ibero-Eurosur S. L. is summarised below: Ibero-Eurosur S. L. 2014 2013 Share of the joint ventures balance sheet and results m m Non-current assets 3.3 3.5 Current assets 0.1 Share of gross assets 3.3 3.6 Non-current liabilities 0.5 0.7 Current liabilities 0.3 0.5 Share of gross liabilities 0.8 1.2 Net assets 2.5 2.4 Revenue 0.2 0.3 Operating profit 0.2 0.2 Profit for the year and total comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year A reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount in the consolidated financial statements is as follows: Ibero-Eurosur S. L 2014 2013 m m 12.3 12.1 Net assets of the joint venture Proportion of interest belonging to joint venture partners 9.8 9.7 Group share of net assets 2.5 2.4 126 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 126 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 17 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Name Country of registration Proportion held % Spain 20-50 Spanish Coach and Bus associates Spanish Coach and Buss associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The aggregate amounts related to associates of which none are individually material are summarised below: 2014 2013 m m Share of operating profit 0.1 0.4 Share of profit for the year and total comprehensive income 0.1 0.4 2.7 2.7 Group share of net assets The carrying amount of the investment in associates matches the Groups share of the net assets.
18 Business combinations a Acquisitions On 28 February 2014, in the United States, the Group acquired certain trade and assets of Atlantic Express Transportation Corp. and its subsidiaries, which operates school bus transportation services in the city of Philadelphia.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 3.6m.
Consideration was 5.2m, resulting in provisional goodwill of 1.6m.
There was nil cash acquired in the business, therefore the net cash outflow for the Group was 5.2m.
There were no other material acquisitions during 2014.
In 2013 the Group acquired a number of small school bus businesses in North America.
Details of these acquisitions are disclosed in the Groups 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
No changes were made to the fair values during 2014.
Deferred consideration of 0.5m 2013: 3.7m was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in North America in earlier years.
b Disposals There were no material business disposals during 2014.
On 23 August 2013 the Group disposed of YCN Transportation Inc. which provided special education transportation services to certain school districts in the State of Massachusetts.
The loss incurred on disposal was 4.3m.
Further details are disclosed in the Groups 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
19 Non-current assets trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 1.1 Prepayments 0.1 0.8 Other receivables 1.7 2.7 1.8 4.6 20 Inventories 2014 2013 m m Raw materials and consumables 21.8 21.2 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
com 127 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 21 Current assets trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 116.8 110.3 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 11.2 11.3 Trade receivables net 105.6 99.0 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures note 35 1.2 1.1 Amounts due from other related parties note 35 0.7 1.0 Other receivables 56.2 34.4 Prepayments 23.7 18.4 Accrued income 12.2 16.0 199.6 169.9 An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 2014 2013 m m 11.3 10.1 At 1 January Utilised provided in the year 0.1 1.2 11.2 11.3 At 31 December Amounts included within trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date are shown in note 29.
The Directors believe that based on the ongoing contractual relationships with predominantly government bodies these amounts will be collected.
22 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 36.3 37.7 Overnight deposits 6.9 40.5 3.2 Other short term deposits Cash and cash equivalents 83.7 40.9 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of 2.8m 2013: 2.9m held by the Rail subsidiaries TOCs.
Under the terms of the train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the value of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The restricted cash represents the balance that is either not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the Balance Sheet date.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the agreed short term floating deposit rate.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
23 Current liabilities trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 144.2 129.7 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures note 35 0.9 0.8 Amounts owed to other related parties note 35 0.7 0.9 Other tax and social security payable 27.4 26.8 115.6 112.9 Accruals and deferred income Other payables 126.9 80.5 415.7 351.6 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of two months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 1.1m 2013: 0.9m.
128 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 128 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Other non-current liabilities 2014 2013 m m Deferred fixed asset grants 3.4 4.7 Other liabilities 0.7 1.8 4.1 6.5 25 Provisions Claims 1 2 provision Other Total m m m At 1 January 2014 45.0 4.4 49.4 Charged to the Income Statement 22.4 17.4 39.8 32.5 2.4 34.9 Utilised in the year Unwinding of discount 1.2 1.2 Acquired in business combinations 1.9 1.9 Exchange difference 1.3 0.1 1.4 At 31 December 2014 39.3 19.5 58.8 Current 31 December 2014 23.2 12.1 35.3 Non-current 31 December 2014 16.1 7.4 23.5 39.3 19.5 58.8 Current 31 December 2013 23.6 4.4 28.0 21.4 21.4 Non-current 31 December 2013 45.0 4.4 49.4 1 The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years.
It comprises provisions for claims arising in the UK and North America.
2 Other includes amounts provided for restructuring activities across the Group, loss making contracts and dilapidation provisions in Rail.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
26 Deferred tax 2014 2013 m m 58.4 77.0 Net deferred tax liability at 1 January Credit to Income Statement 8.7 12.2 Credit to Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 12.4 6.1 Exchange differences 0.3 0.4 Acquired in business combinations 0.9 0.7 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 36.1 58.4 Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset.
com 129 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 26 Deferred tax continued 2014 2013 Deferred tax assets m m Accelerated tax depreciation 3.9 0.7 Losses carried forward 6.4 8.9 Other short term temporary differences 19.6 7.1 Total 29.9 16.7 2014 2013 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 150.0 158.5 Losses carried forward 42.1 36.4 Other short term temporary differences 41.9 47.0 Total 66.0 75.1 27 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 2014 2013 m m Non-current Bank loans 2.6 5.2 585.3 579.5 Bonds Finance lease obligations 87.6 100.7 Other debt payable 66.3 65.3 Non-current borrowings 741.8 750.7 Fuel derivatives 36.1 1.1 Interest rate derivatives 0.5 Non-current derivative financial instruments 36.1 1.6 Non-current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 777.9 752.3 Current Bank loans 2.6 14.1 Bonds accrued interest 29.2 29.2 22.9 32.2 Finance lease obligations Other debt payable 1.2 1.3 Current borrowings 55.9 76.8 Fuel derivatives 35.2 1.5 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.6 0.4 Current derivative financial instruments 35.8 1.9 Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 91.7 78.7 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 28.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 30.
130 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 130 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 28 Interest-bearing borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 2014 Effective 2013 Effective m Maturity interest rate m Maturity interest rate 353.0 January 2017 6.54% 352.0 January 2017 6.54% Seven-year Sterling bond Ten-year Sterling bond 232.3 January 2020 6.85% 227.5 June 2020 6.85% Bonds 585.3 579.5 Accrued interest bonds 29.2 29.2 1 European bank loans November 2019 LIBOR 0.60% 13.0 July 2018 LIBOR 1.10% European bank loans 3.6 2015-2016 4.25% 5.7 2014-2016 5.08% European bank loans 3.0 2015-2017 EURIBOR 1.91% 0.6 2014-2016 EURIBOR 2.87% US bank loans 2.0 1.15% Bank loans 8.6 19.3 US dollar finance leases at fixed rate 93.1 2015-2020 2.04% 112.4 2014-2020 2.21% European finance leases at fixed rate 2.0 2015-2017 5.41% 4.2 2014-2017 5.68% European finance leases at floating rate 5.2 2015-2022 EURIBOR 1.06% 3.1 2014-2017 EURIBOR 1.31% Sterling finance leases 10.2 2015-2018 5.61% 13.2 2014-2018 4.76% at fixed rate Finance leases 110.5 132.9 Euro Private Placement 65.6 August 2021 4.55% 64.5 August 2021 4.55% Accrued interest Private Placement 1.1 1.1 Euro loans 0.8 2026 1.0 2014-2017 Other debt payable 67.5 66.6 Total 801.1 827.5 1 This date is the ultimate maturity date of the syndicated credit facility.
There was nil drawn down at year end.
In November 2014, the Group amended and extended its committed unsecured revolving bank facility, increasing it from a 410m to a 416m facility with an extension from July 2018 to November 2019.
The Group amended the facility in order to take advantage of favourable movements in bank loan margins and fees.
At 31 December 2014 there was nil 2013: 20m drawn down on the facility, with 3.4m of capitalised deal fees remaining.
Under the terms of the 1bn EMTN programme, there is a change in control put option such that, upon a change of control event, any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
Details of the Groups interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 29 and 30.
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result in its borrowings under the facility becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to net interest payable.
com 131 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 28 Interest-bearing borrowings continued The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Groups interest-bearing borrowings and deposits: 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 3.0 0.5 3.5 Bonds 353.0 232.3 585.3 Finance leases 21.1 19.8 33.5 18.5 10.8 1.5 105.2 Other debt payable 1.2 0.1 0.5 65.7 67.5 Floating rate Cash assets 83.7 83.7 0.4 2.1 1.7 Bank loans Finance leases 1.8 1.2 0.9 0.4 0.4 0.6 5.3 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 0.9 4.7 0.1 5.7 Bonds 352.0 227.5 579.5 Finance leases 31.0 20.3 18.7 31.2 17.2 11.4 129.8 Other debt payable 1.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 64.7 66.6 Floating rate Cash assets 40.9 40.9 Bank loans 13.2 0.3 0.1 13.6 Finance leases 1.2 1.2 0.5 0.2 3.1 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups multinational operations and debt levels expose it to a variety of financial risks, of which the most material are market risks relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives.
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board to the Group Finance Director and the Director of Capital Markets.
The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular reporting to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee on its activities.
132 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 132 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency The Group has major foreign operations in the US, Canada and Spain and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings.
These movements can have a significant impact on the Groups reported results.
The Group seeks to manage this foreign currency exchange movements risk by aligning its foreign currency denominated liabilities with the EBIT generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded to the net debt: EBITDA covenant within the Groups core borrowing facility.
This is achieved by a combination of foreign currency borrowings and finance leases, and entering into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps.
At the year end, the Group had outstanding foreign exchange derivatives of 170.0m and US$130.0m: swaps of US$73.0m, 79.0m and C$35.3m and finance leases of US$144.9m and 9.3m.
Derivative financial instruments are designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled to the Income Statement at the same time as the underlying hedged net assets affect the Income Statement.
Any material ineffectiveness is taken to the Income Statement.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of cross-currency swap contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Groups overseas net investments.
It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or loss in the translation reserve of 7.6m.
2014 2013 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in currency m m m m US dollar 10% 0.2 2.6 Euro 10% 7.7 0.1 5.9 Canadian dollar 10% 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 10 % 0.2 2.6 US dollar Euro 10 % 7.7 0.1 5.9 Canadian dollar 10 % 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
To achieve the desired fixed floating ratio, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2014 the proportion of Group net debt at floating rates was 28% 2013: 33%.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Sterling were increased by 100bps, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would decrease by approximately 1.4m.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in US$ were increased by 50bps, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would remain unchanged.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Euro were increased by 75bps, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would reduce by 0.4m.
The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2014. www.
com 133 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk continued 2014 2013 Increase Effect Effect on Effect Effect on decrease on profit hedging on profit hedging in basis before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 1.4 1.8 50 US dollar Euro 75 0.4 0.5 100 1.4 1.8 Sterling US dollar 50 Euro 75 0.4 0.5 Commodity prices The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had hedged approximately 100% of its 2015 expected usage, 96% of its expected usage in 2016 and 81% of its expected usage in 2017 see the Group Finance Directors review for further details.
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and accordingly on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel derivatives.
For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 20% increase or decrease in all prices would have been 38.9m at 31 December 2014.
The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives.
2014 2013 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Increase on profit hedging on profit hedging decrease before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 14.1 15.8 US dollar denominated heating oil diesel 20% 9.6 8.6 20% 15.2 16.8 Euro denominated ULSD Sterling denominated ULSD 20 % 14.1 15.8 US dollar denominated heating oil diesel 20 % 9.6 8.6 Euro denominated ULSD 20 % 15.2 16.8 Credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
Many of the Groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are public or quasipublic bodies, both national DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK and local school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this, the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The only elements of the Groups financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items.
An ageing of the assets which are past due is included in the following table.
In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as at the year end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations see Risk and risk management section for details of how management manages this process.
134 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 134 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Credit risk continued Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods Of which: neither Carrying impaired Less than Between Between amount nor past due 30 days 30 and 60 days 61 and 90 days Over 90 days m m m m m m Trade receivables at 31 December 2014 105.6 79.3 11.2 4.7 2.5 7.9 Trade receivables at 31 December 2013 100.1 60.2 17.1 7.5 3.5 11.8 Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk is managed centrally by the Group Treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash requirements.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and medium term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast funding requirements.
In managing the liquidity risk, the Group has access to a range of funding sources through the banking and capital markets.
In November 2014, the Group amended its committed unsecured revolving bank facility, increasing it from a 410m to a 416m facility with an extension of maturity from July 2018 to November 2019.
At 31 December 2014, 416m of this facility remained unused 2013: 393.4m.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had committed bank borrowing and finance lease facilities of 526.5m 2013: 542.9m.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows.
As such, the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts disclosed in the Balance Sheet or other notes.
The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments.
Their amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg.
com 135 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital risk management The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its Balance Sheet strength to achieve the Groups objectives without putting shareholder value at risk.
The Groups capital structure comprises its equity refer to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and its net debt refer to note 36.
The decrease in the Groups net debt from 746.1m to 664.3m excluding accrued interest is explained in the Finance Directors review.
Information about the financial covenants in relation to the Groups borrowing facilities is included in note 28.
30 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values The table below illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2014.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.
Available for sale investments are non-derivative assets that are either designated as available for sale, or are not classified as loans and receivables or held to maturity investments.
The Groups available for sale investments have no active market, and in the absence of any other reliable external information are carried at cost or amortised cost which approximates to the fair value.
The fair value of derivatives is either determined by the third-party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments or by use of valuation techniques using market data.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value with gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value.
For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement.
Amounts taken to Other Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Income Statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
For fair value hedges, all gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivatives are the only instrument which the Group holds at fair value.
The fair value measurement of these instruments is categorised within Level 2 ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs ie those that would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value movements.
The Groups bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment.
After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A portion of the bonds are designated as the hedged item in an effective fair value hedging relationship.
As such, the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Groups credit risk, movements in interest rates on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees.
All other liabilities including finance leases, bank loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable are held at amortised cost.
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates to the fair value.
136 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 136 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 30 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued Liabilities AvailableDerivatives measured at At fair value Loans and for-sale used for amortised through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Assets Investments 6.8 6.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.5 1.5 Interest rate derivatives 26.5 26.5 83.7 83.7 Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables 165.2 165.2 248.9 6.8 28.0 283.7 Liabilities Bank loans 5.2 5.2 Bonds including accrued interest 614.5 614.5 Finance lease obligations 110.5 110.5 67.5 67.5 Other debt payable Fuel derivatives 71.3 71.3 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 415.3 415.3 71.9 1,213.0 1,284.9 AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.4 7.4 Fuel derivatives 1.8 1.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 2.2 2.2 Interest rate derivatives 17.6 17.6 Cash and cash equivalents 40.9 40.9 139.3 139.3 Trade and other receivables 180.2 7.4 21.6 209.2 Liabilities Bank loans 19.3 19.3 Bonds including accrued interest 608.7 608.7 Finance lease obligations 132.9 132.9 Other debt payable 66.6 66.6 Fuel derivatives 2.6 2.6 Interest rate derivatives 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange derivatives 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables 352.5 352.5 3.5 1,180.0 1,183.5 Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
com 137 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 30 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued The Group assesses at each year end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the financial year 2014 there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets except the provision for impairment of receivables see note 21.
Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
In line with IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as a fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, b cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In 2014 the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions and for hedging net investments in US dollar and Euro foreign operations.
The Group applied fair value hedge accounting for the fair value interest rate risk on 200m of the Groups fixed rate bonds and 78.5m Private Placement.
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m 17.1 1.8 0.8 18.1 Net asset liability at 1 January 2014 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 9.8 9.8 Cash settlements accrual 0.1 2.5 2.6 Revaluation through Income Statement 9.5 9.5 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 80.3 80.3 1.6 1.6 Exchange differences Net asset liability at 31 December 2014 26.5 0.9 71.3 43.9 Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net asset liability at 1 January 2013 31.0 0.4 30.6 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 3.5 3.5 Cash settlements accrual 0.4 1.1 1.5 Revaluation through Income Statement 14.3 14.3 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 2.7 2.7 Exchange differences 1.1 1.1 Net asset liability at 31 December 2013 17.1 1.8 0.8 18.1 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 2.1 2.8 Transferred to Income Statement 12.3 3.5 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 80.3 2.7 0.2 Exchange differences Tax on revaluation 13.6 0.3 52.3 2.1 At 31 December 138 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 138 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 30 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign currency net assets of the Group which are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had designated 170m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives and 78.5m Private Placement as net investment hedges of the net assets of its Spanish subsidiaries.
Similarly, $130m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives were designated as a hedge of the net assets of the Groups US subsidiaries.
No ineffectiveness was recognised in relation to these hedges.
Fuel derivatives The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Ultra low sulphur diesel is used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and Spanish Coach and Bus divisions and is hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American Bus division is hedged using the diesel market.
The timing of the swap cash flows match underlying fuel purchases from 2015 through to 2017.
During the year 80.3m of fair value losses 2013: 2.7m gains have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements in market fuel prices.
A fair value loss of 9.8m 2013: 3.5m gain has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the Income Statement following settlement of fuel trades, of which 0.6m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2014 and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
In addition, a loss of 2.5m was recognised in the Income Statement for hedge ineffectiveness during the year 2013: nil.
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Hedge fuel derivatives Sterling denominated UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail 14.4 0.7 86.0 83.5 US dollar denominated North American Bus 8.7 0.8 54.9 69.2 Euro denominated Spanish Coach and Bus 12.1 0.7 89.5 93.0 Fuel derivatives included in current assets liabilities 35.2 0.6 230.4 245.7 Sterling denominated UK Bus, UK Coach and Rail 13.9 0.8 136.0 86.0 US dollar denominated North American Bus 10.1 0.7 93.5 54.9 Euro denominated Spanish Coach and Bus 12.1 0.1 170.5 89.5 Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets liabilities 36.1 0.2 400.0 230.4 Total hedge fuel derivatives 71.3 0.8 630.4 476.1 www.
com 139 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 30 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss In July 2010 the Group entered into four 50m denominated interest rate swaps on a total of 200m of the Groups Sterling bonds.
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest LIBOR a margin semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching the Groups Sterling bonds two swaps with total notional value 100m mature in January 2017, two swaps with notional value 100m mature in June 2020 and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on 200m of these bonds.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds.
As at 31 December 2014 a total fair value gain of 4.2m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps.
This is offset by a fair value loss of 4.2m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value on the 200m of the Groups bonds due to changes in the risk free interest rate.
In September 2012, the Group entered into two 39.25m denominated interest rate swaps equal in value to the Euro Private Placement.
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest EURIBOR a margin semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching the Euro Private Placement and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on the Private Placement.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit and loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk free rate on the Euro Private Placement.
As at 31 December 2014 a total fair value gain of 5.2m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps.
This is offset by a fair value loss of 5.2m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value of the Euro Private Placement due to changes in the risk free interest rate.
31 Called-up share capital 2014 2013 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 800,000,000 2013: 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 511,738,648 2013: 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 25.6 The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 972,868 2013: 1,431,193 of which 882,000 2013: 1,431,193 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
The remaining exercises were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market.
Own shares Own shares comprises 553,268 2013: 426,630 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 1,033,000 2013: 1,322,165 shares and 882,000 2013:1,431,193 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
24,362 2013: nil shares were sold during the year to the open market.
The market value of the shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2014 was 1.4m 2013: 1.2m.
The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
140 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 140 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 32 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2014 15.4 2.1 29.0 46.5 Hedge movements, net of tax 54.4 54.4 Exchange differences, net of tax 24.9 24.9 At 31 December 2014 15.4 52.3 4.1 32.8 Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 15.4 2.8 26.0 44.2 Hedge movements, net of tax 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences, net of tax 3.0 3.0 At 31 December 2013 15.4 2.1 29.0 46.5 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: the merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000: the hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised in equity on underlying hedged items: and the translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme.
The majority of employees of the Rail companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section c in the Other category.
The defined benefit pension schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary risk.
The UK Coach plan is now closed to all future accrual.
A funding plan aimed at bringing the plan to self-sufficiency over a six-year period was agreed in 2010: National Express contributes 4.2m annually to this scheme.
In 2011 UK Bus agreed a 5.5m annual deficit repayment plan with the trustees of the West Midlands Integrated Transport Authority Pension Fund to fund a 71m scheme funding deficit over 12 years.
The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only.
The total pension cost charged to operating profit in the year was 9.9m 2013: 9.9m, of which 3.7m 2013: 3.2m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
com 141 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The defined benefit pension liability asset included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 2014 2013 m m UK Bus 50.6 40.8 30.6 12.6 UK Coach Rail 10.0 0.4 Other 1.9 1.5 Total 11.9 30.1 The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows: UK Bus UK Coach Rail Travel West Tayside Midlands 31 March 31 March 5 April 31 December Date of actuarial valuation 2011 2013 2013 2013 Actuarial method used Attained age Attained age Projected unit Projected unit Rate of investment returns per annum 4.3%-6.9% 3.5%-5.5% 4.1% 5.0%-7.3% Increase in earnings per annum 5.0% 2.6% 4.2% 45.5m 448.9m 77.3m 82.4m Scheme assets taken at market value Funding level 97% 84% 82% 84%-100% Amounts included in the Income Statement, Other Comprehensive Income and the Balance Sheet are calculated using the projected unit method.
The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2014 2013 UK Bus UK Coach Rail UK Bus UK Coach Rail Rate of increase in salaries 2.5% 2.5% 2.4% 2.5% 2.5% 2.9% Rate of increase of pensions 1.9% 2.9% 1.9% 2.4% 3.4% 2.4% 3.6% 3.6% 3.6% 4.6% 4.6% 4.6% Discount rate Inflation assumption RPI 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% Inflation assumption CPI 1.9% 1.9% 1.9% 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 21.2 24.2 21.4 24.2 Current pensioners at 65 male, pension under 10,300 pa or pensionable pay under 35,000 pa 20.9 20.7 Current pensioners at 65 male others 23.2 22.9 24.0 26.7 24.1 26.7 Current pensioners at 65 female Current pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,700 pa or pensionable pay under 35,000 pa 22.7 22.6 Current pensioners at 65 female others 24.5 25.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 22.6 26.0 22.7 26.0 Future pensioners at 65 male, pension under 10,300 pa or pensionable pay under 35,000 pa 23.2 23.1 25.5 25.1 Future pensioners at 65 male others Future pensioners at 65 female 25.5 28.7 25.6 28.7 Future pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,700 pa or pensionable pay under 35,000 pa 25.1 25.1 Future pensioners at 65 female others 26.8 27.4 142 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 142 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation.
For the Rail scheme, mortality assumptions have been set by reference to the recent experience of the scheme.
Mortality is assumed to improve in the future in line with the core projection model published by the actuarial professions Continuous Mortality Investigation, incorporating a long term improvement rate of 1.5% pa.
The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS 19 valuation, and the following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption.
UK Bus UK Coach Rail m m m Defined benefit pension liability asset at 31 December 2014 50.6 30.6 10.0 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 8.2 1.6 2.0 Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.3 2.4 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 0.1 Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
b Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme The majority of employees of the Rail companies are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
To date, the Group has experienced 11 changes of Rail franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement.
By entering into the franchise contract, the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries.
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Groups accounts present fairly its financial position, financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Groups constructive obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19.
This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent with that set out in this note for the Groups other defined benefit schemes, means that the Groups accounts reflect that element of the deficits anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new owner at franchise exit.
In calculating the Groups constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above.
These deficits are reduced by a franchise adjustment which is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group will not be required to fund.
The franchise adjustment, which has been calculated by the Groups actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Groups obligations.
The franchise adjustment increased from 15.5m at 31 December 2013 to 30.8m at 31 December 2014.
The principal reason for the increase was the renewal of the Essex Thameside franchise previously c2c that increased the franchise adjustment by 10.7m.
In addition, the adjustment increased due to interest on the franchise adjustment of 0.7m and other net actuarial movements of 3.9m.
In the prior year, the franchise adjustment decreased from 18.1m at 31 December 2012 to 15.5m at 31 December 2013.
The principal reason for the decrease was the interest on the franchise adjustment of 0.7m and other net actuarial movements of 1.8m.
com 143 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits The amounts charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 are set out in the following tables: UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Group Income Statement m m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 3.3 2.4 0.5 6.2 Curtailment 0.6 0.6 Net interest expense income 1.7 0.7 0.7 0.1 1.8 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.7 0.7 Total charge credit to Income Statement 4.4 0.7 2.4 0.6 6.7 During the year 0.6m 2013: 0.5m of administrative expenses were incurred.
The net interest expense together with the interest on franchise adjustment has been included within Finance Costs see note 9.
UK Bus UK Coach Rail Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial loss gain during the period 47.4 8.5 7.6 48.3 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 32.7 22.6 3.1 58.4 Net actuarial gains losses 14.7 14.1 10.7 10.1 UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Group Income Statement m m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 3.4 2.3 0.5 6.2 Net interest expense income 1.3 0.8 0.7 1.2 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.7 0.7 Total charge credit to Income Statement 4.7 0.8 2.3 0.5 6.7 UK Bus UK Coach Rail Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial loss during the period 14.3 5.1 0.2 19.6 1.4 2.8 2.0 0.6 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate Net actuarial losses gains 12.9 7.9 1.8 19.0 144 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 144 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 As at 31 December 2014 m m m m m 103.7 79.6 183.3 Equities Bonds 65.7 123.9 4.4 194.0 Property 4.3 4.3 Insurance policy 241.7 241.7 Diversified growth fund 72.9 72.9 5.1 22.1 0.4 16.6 Other Fair value of scheme assets 493.4 101.8 84.4 679.6 Present value of scheme liabilities 544.0 71.2 118.5 1.9 735.6 Franchise adjustment 30.8 30.8 Defined benefit obligation 544.0 71.2 87.7 1.9 704.8 13.3 13.3 Members share of deficit Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 50.6 30.6 10.0 1.9 11.9 UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 As at 31 December 2013 m m m m m Equities 100.5 70.7 171.2 Bonds 56.9 99.2 3.9 160.0 3.8 3.8 Property Insurance policy 226.7 226.7 Diversified growth fund 62.1 62.1 Other 6.4 24.6 0.4 17.8 Fair value of scheme assets 456.4 74.6 75.0 606.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 497.2 62.0 101.3 1.5 662.0 15.5 15.5 Franchise adjustment Defined benefit obligation 497.2 62.0 85.8 1.5 646.5 Members share of deficit 10.4 10.4 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 40.8 12.6 0.4 1.5 30.1 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below.
For Rail, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 702.9m 2013: 645.0m including the members share of the deficit arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 1.9m 2013: 1.5m from unfunded plans.
UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2014 497.2 62.0 85.8 1.5 646.5 Current service cost 3.3 2.4 0.5 6.2 Curtailment 0.6 0.6 26.7 2.1 2.5 0.2 31.5 Benefits paid Contributions by employees 1.1 1.5 2.6 Finance charge 22.3 2.8 2.8 0.1 28.0 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.7 0.7 Members share of movement on liabilities 6.0 6.0 43.6 8.5 4.3 47.8 Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 0.7 0.2 0.5 Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 4.5 3.5 1.0 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2014 544.0 71.2 87.7 1.9 704.8 www.
com 145 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued UK Bus UK Coach Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2013 480.9 56.5 81.2 1.2 619.8 Current service cost 3.4 2.3 0.5 6.2 Benefits paid 23.3 2.0 1.4 0.2 26.9 Contributions by employees 1.2 1.4 2.6 20.7 2.4 2.5 25.6 Finance charge Interest on franchise adjustment 0.7 0.7 Members share of movement on liabilities 0.3 0.3 Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 11.4 2.8 0.1 14.3 Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 1.5 1.5 2.9 3.8 0.1 6.8 Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013 497.2 62.0 85.8 1.5 646.5 The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Bus UK Coach Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2014 456.4 74.6 75.0 606.0 20.6 3.5 2.1 26.2 Expected return on plan assets Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 32.7 22.6 3.1 58.4 Cash contributions employer 9.6 3.2 2.3 15.1 Administrative expenses 0.3 0.3 0.6 Cash contributions employee 1.1 1.5 2.6 Benefits paid 26.7 2.1 2.5 31.3 Members share of return on assets 3.2 3.2 493.4 101.8 84.4 679.6 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2014 UK Bus UK Coach Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2013 448.0 73.1 67.1 588.2 19.4 3.2 1.8 24.4 Expected return on plan assets Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 1.4 2.8 2.0 0.6 Cash contributions employer 9.8 3.1 2.2 15.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.5 0.7 Cash contributions employee 1.2 1.4 2.6 Benefits paid 23.2 2.0 1.4 26.6 Members share of return on assets 2.4 2.4 456.4 74.6 75.0 606.0 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2013 146 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 146 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 33 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The Group expects to contribute 16.4m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2015.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m m UK Bus Fair value of scheme assets 493.4 456.4 448.0 431.9 429.5 Present value of defined benefit obligation 544.0 497.2 480.9 448.7 434.8 Deficit in the scheme 50.6 40.8 32.9 16.8 5.3 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 4.5 2.9 5.0 23.3 0.1 Experience adjustments arising on assets 32.7 1.4 8.6 7.3 21.3 UK Coach Fair value of scheme assets 101.8 74.6 73.1 67.9 59.6 Present value of defined benefit obligation 71.2 62.0 56.5 49.3 59.6 Surplus deficit in the scheme 30.6 12.6 16.6 18.6 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 3.8 0.1 2.7 Experience adjustments arising on assets 22.6 2.8 0.5 9.7 2.3 Rail Fair value of scheme assets 84.4 75.0 67.1 321.0 318.3 Present value of defined benefit obligation 87.7 85.8 81.2 363.7 372.8 13.3 10.4 12.3 40.5 50.8 Members share of deficit Deficit in the scheme 10.0 0.4 1.8 2.2 3.7 3.5 0.1 2.7 8.5 12.2 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities Experience adjustments arising on assets 3.1 2.0 8.0 13.4 6.1 Other Fair value of scheme assets Present value of defined benefit obligation 1.9 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.4 Deficit in the scheme 1.9 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.4 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004 is 59.2m loss 2013: 69.3m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004. www.
com 147 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 34 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: 20.6 28.9 Within one year: Land and buildings Plant and equipment 42.3 33.7 62.9 62.6 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 55.5 30.9 Plant and equipment 139.0 47.1 194.5 78.0 More than five years: Land and buildings 102.8 47.9 Plant and equipment 243.2 3.3 346.0 51.2 603.4 191.8 Rail lease commitments Rail division companies have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
They also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The TOCs obligations to fulfil these commitments exist only as part of their franchise agreement.
The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed.
The commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting on 1 April 2010.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below: Land and buildings Plant and equipment 2014 2013 2014 2013 Rail division commitments m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Fixed track access 4.0 10.4 Rolling stock 24.2 16.7 Other 1.7 3.5 0.1 0.5 5.7 13.9 24.3 17.2 After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 15.9 Rolling stock 96.9 Other 6.6 0.2 22.5 97.1 Over five years: Fixed track access 39.7 Rolling stock 242.2 Other 16.5 0.5 56.2 242.7 84.4 13.9 364.1 17.2 Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 15.0 years 2013: 0.7 years and other land and buildings have an average duration of 15.0 years 2013: 0.7 years.
Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 15.0 years 2013: 0.7 years and other plant and equipment 12.7 years 2013: 0.7 years.
148 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 148 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Other lease commitments Outside of the Rail division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases are shown below: Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Other divisions commitments m m m m m m Within one year 14.9 15.0 17.9 16.3 0.1 0.2 After one year but not more than five years 33.0 30.9 41.7 46.8 0.2 0.3 More than five years 46.6 47.9 0.5 3.2 0.1 94.5 93.8 60.1 66.3 0.3 0.6 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 6.7 years 2013: 6.3 years for land and buildings, 3.4 years 2013: 4.1 years for public service vehicles and 2.6 years 2013: 2.4 years for other plant and equipment.
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 2014 2013 m m Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 0.1 0.1 1.5 After one year but not more than five years Over five years 2.4 4.0 0.1 The leases have an average unexpired duration of 6.4 years 2013: 0.7 years.
Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2014 2013 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 25.5 22.9 35.4 32.2 After one year but not more than five years 89.5 85.6 96.0 89.3 More than five years 2.0 2.0 11.6 11.4 Total minimum lease payments 117.0 110.5 143.0 132.9 Less future financing charges 6.5 10.1 Present value of minimum lease payments 110.5 110.5 132.9 132.9 Capital commitments 2014 2013 m m Contracted 77.0 19.0 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
The commitments include orders for vehicles placed by the UK Bus division and orders for capital items placed with suppliers for the new National Express Essex Thameside franchise within the Rail division.
Contingent liabilities and assets Guarantees The Group has guaranteed credit facilities totalling 2.9m 2013:nil of certain joint ventures.
Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2014 there were Rail performance bonds of 61.3m 2013: 9.4m and Rail season ticket bonds of 21.6m 2013: 21.2m.
The Group has other performance bonds which include performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 114.5m 2013: 105.1m and the rest of Europe of 32.1m 2013: 26.2m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 65.7m 2013: 48.8m.
com 149 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Contingent liabilities and assets continued Spanish fuel duty credits As disclosed in note 5, during the year the Group recognised 21.8m in relation to Spanish fuel duty credits which have either been received or are considered to be virtually certain.
Additional claims are subject to assessment and approval and have therefore not yet been recognised.
35 Related party transactions Amounts due from Amount of transactions related parties Amounts due to related parties 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Associates Spain associates 2.1 1.8 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.8 Trade investments Spain trade investments 3.9 4.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.7 Property transactions North America 0.4 0.1 Spain 3.3 6.5 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.2 Total other related parties 7.6 11.0 0.7 1.0 0.7 0.9 Total 9.7 12.8 1.9 2.1 1.6 1.7 A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a Non-Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.
The details of the post-employment benefit plans operated for the benefit of employees of the Group are disclosed in note 33.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2014 2013 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 3.9 3.7 150 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 150 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 36 Cash flow statement The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of 44.7m 2013: 22.9m from continuing operations which are related to exceptional costs.
a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2014 2013 Total operations m m Net cash inflow from operating activities Profit before tax 66.5 64.4 Net finance costs 48.0 49.8 Share of post-tax results under the equity method 0.3 0.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 104.9 107.3 28.6 49.3 Intangible asset amortisation Amortisation of fixed asset grants 0.8 1.1 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.7 1.1 Loss on disposal of business 4.3 Share-based payments 3.1 3.1 0.6 2.2 Increase in inventories Increase decrease in receivables 26.9 21.9 Increase in payables 26.8 13.9 Decrease in provisions 2.4 12.6 Cash generated from operations 245.2 296.4 b Analysis of changes in net debt At At 1 January Exchange Other 31 December 2014 Cash flow differences movements 2014 m m m m m Cash 37.7 0.6 0.8 36.3 Overnight deposits 6.9 6.9 3.2 37.3 40.5 Other short term deposits Cash and cash equivalents 40.9 43.6 0.8 83.7 Other debt receivables 1.0 0.2 0.8 Borrowings: Bank and other loans 19.3 9.6 5.2 0.7 5.2 Bonds 579.5 5.8 585.3 Fair value of hedging derivatives 9.2 9.4 18.6 Finance lease obligations 132.9 28.8 5.2 1.2 110.5 Other debt payable 65.5 0.1 4.2 5.2 66.4 Total borrowings 788.0 38.5 4.2 3.5 748.8 Net debt 746.1 81.9 3.4 3.5 664.3 Excludes accrued interest on long term borrowings.
Short term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Borrowings include non-current interest-bearing borrowings of 741.8m 2013: 750.7m as disclosed in note 27.
Other non-cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of 1.2m 2013: 0.8m and a 2.3m reduction in loan and bond arrangement fees 2013: 2.6m.
The 9.4m increase to the fair value of the hedging derivative is offset by equal and opposite movements in the fair value of the related hedged borrowings.
This comprises a 4.2m fair value movement in bonds and a 5.2m fair value movement in other debt payable.
com 151 Financial statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 For the year ended 31 December 2014 36 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt continued At At 1 January Exchange Other 31 December 2013 Cash flow differences movements 2013 m m m m m Cash 41.7 4.5 0.5 37.7 Overnight deposits 28.6 28.6 Other short term deposits 2.5 0.7 3.2 Cash and cash equivalents 72.8 32.4 0.5 40.9 Other debt receivables 1.0 1.0 Borrowings: Bank and other loans 114.6 99.6 3.2 1.1 19.3 590.0 10.5 579.5 Bonds Fair value of hedging derivatives 23.4 14.2 9.2 Finance lease obligations 154.7 21.3 1.3 0.8 132.9 Other debt payable 66.1 0.2 1.4 2.2 65.5 Total borrowings 902.0 120.7 3.3 3.4 788.0 Net debt 828.2 88.3 2.8 3.4 746.1 Excludes accrued interest on long term borrowings.
c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2014 2013 m m Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year 43.6 32.4 Cash outflow from movement in other debt receivables 0.2 Cash inflow from movement in debt and finance leases 38.5 120.7 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 81.9 88.3 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 0.1 6.2 Movement in net debt in the year 81.8 82.1 Opening net debt 746.1 828.2 664.3 746.1 Net debt 37 Post Balance Sheet events On 2 February 2015, the Group was awarded two 12-year contracts to operate the whole S-Bahn Nuremberg commuter rail services network.
The contracts will commence in December 2018 and are expected to generate revenues in excess of 1.4bn over the 12-year period.
152 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 152 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
