ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW on Thursday 15 May 2014 at 9.30 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 16 and 19 as Ordinary Resolutions and 17, 18 and 20 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 26 to 30 and in the appendix to this Notice.
Biographies of directors seeking election re-election are shown on page 32 of the Annual Report.
To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditor for the year ended 25 January 2014.
To approve the directors remuneration policy, the full text of which is contained in the Remuneration Report for the year ended 25 January 2014 and set out on pages 41 to 55.
To approve the Remuneration Report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 41 to 55 for the year ended 25 January 2014.
To declare a final dividend of 93p per share in respect of the year ended 25 January 2014.
To re-elect John Barton as a director.
To re-elect Christos Angelides as a director.
To re-elect Steve Barber as a director.
To re-elect Jonathan Dawson as a director.
To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a director.
To re-elect David Keens as a director.
To elect Michael Law as a director.
To re-elect Francis Salway as a director.
To elect Jane Shields as a director.
To re-elect Lord Wolfson as a director.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
113 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 NOTICE OF MEETING 16.
Directors authority to allot shares That: a the directors be authorised to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in the Company: i in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,100,000: and ii up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,200,000 as reduced by any equity securities allotted under paragraph a i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 of the Articles : b in accordance with article 7 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2015: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on or after that date.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights That: a in accordance with article 8 of the Companys articles of association the Articles, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 b ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 775,000: c in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 August 2015: and d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect.
On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with the 2006 Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the 2006 Act of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may determine provided that: a the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 23,239,000 ordinary shares of 10p each and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 19 below: b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount not more than the higher of 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: 114 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 d the authority hereby conferred, unless renewed, shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2015 and 1 August 2015: e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and f all existing authorities for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares are revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
Off-market purchases of own shares That, in accordance with section 694 of the 2006 Act, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each, as more fully described in Appendix 1 on pages 116 to 117 the authority conferred by this ordinary resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company held in 2015 and 1 August 2015, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 18 above.
Notice of general meetings That, in accordance with the Companys articles of association, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Seonna Anderson Secretary Registered Office: Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT 11 April 2014 115 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 NOTICE OF MEETING APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 19: OFF MARKET PURCHASES OF OWN SHARES As noted on pages 28 and 29 in the Directors Report, approval will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
By virtue of special resolution number 17 passed at the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 24.169 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2014 or 1 August 2014.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum of 5 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2014 or 1 August 2014.
Pursuant to those authorities and up to 19 March 2014, the Company has bought back 5,440,666 shares for cancellation, representing 3.4% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2013 AGM, at a total cost of 263.4 million.
Of these, 50,000 shares were bought back under contingent purchase contracts.
Under Sections 693 and 694 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and from the January year end up to the announcement of the full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility and reducing the cost, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
As in previous years, the Company intends to enter into new agreements the Programme Agreements, with each of the Banks, under which the Company may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
The terms of a CFT will be agreed between the Company and the Bank before it is entered into.
The Company is committed to purchase shares under a CFT on the day it is executed subject to the terms of the Programme Agreement.
The terms of each CFT will provide for the Company to purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 30,000 shares per week.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price either not rising to, or above, a level the Upper Suspension Level or, if applicable, falling to or below a level the Lower Suspension Level.
The Suspension Levels and duration are determined by the Company and are set at the time the CFT is entered into.
The Upper Suspension Level must be set between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price at the start of the CFT.
If the Company chooses to incorporate a Lower Suspension Level, it must be set between 80% and 95% of the price at the start of the CFT.
The inclusion of a Lower Suspension Level would help mitigate the Companys financial commitment under a CFT if its share price was to fall below this level after the CFT had been executed.
If the Lower Suspension Level is not included, the level of discount to the market share price would be higher.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a CFT the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price will be determined by the Bank with reference to the volume weighted average price for shares traded in NEXT on the day the CFT is entered into.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between entering a CFT and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
The Company will announce the details of each CFT on the day it is entered into and any subsequent termination via the UK Listing Authoritys Regulatory News Service.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each 116 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Levels are not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If any Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
Under the provisions of sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 19, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM to be held in 2015 or 1 August 2015 and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 4.0 million, representing circa 2.6% of its issued share capital at 19 March 2014: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 200 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed the higher of 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the CFT was effected and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Shares purchased under the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 15 May 2014 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2015 or on 1 August 2015, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 15 May 2014.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT and at the offices of Pinsent Masons, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The total number of employee share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 19 March 2014 was 7,242,592.
This represents 4.7% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to both the existing authority for off-market purchases granted at the 2013 AGM which will expire at the 2014 AGM and the authority sought by this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 19 March 2014 would represent 5.0% of the reduced issued share capital.
117 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 NO NOTICE OF MEETING TICE OF MEETING Attendance, Voting and Questions All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please either sign and return a hard copy form of proxy so as to reach the Companys registrars at least 48 hours before the meeting or follow the instructions for electronic proxy appointment through CREST or through www.
co. uk, where full instructions are provided.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the paragraphs headed Electronic proxy appointment through CREST and Proxy card below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted, the senior holder being the first named of the joint holders to appear in the Companys share register.
A member who appoints as their proxy someone other than the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the proxy attends the meeting and is aware of the voting intention of the member.
If no voting instruction is given, the proxy has discretion on whether and how to vote.
If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and its articles of association, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 13 May 2014 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 13 May 2014 or 6pm on the day that is two days before any adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who validly appoint a proxy, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 19 on off-market share purchase contracts, the 2006 Act provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard any poll votes which are cast in favour of resolution 19 attaching to 4.0 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
118 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2014 As at 19 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 155,032,317 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in treasury.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must ensure any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting is answered but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual is available at www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Documents available for inspection The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will be available for fifteen minutes prior to and for the duration of the AGM: Copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors Copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 19 Copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 19 will be available for inspection at the offices of Pinsent Masons, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES during normal working hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
119 23158.04 - Proof 2 - 14 03 2014 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
