Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2014 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating solely in the United Arab Emirates UAE.
The address of the registered office of the Company is 23 Hanover Square London, W1S 1JB.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the company and who together have the ability to control the company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food and IT products and services in the United Arab Emirates.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 23 February 2015 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Suresh Krishnamoorthy.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instrument that have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Functional and reporting currency The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries is UAE Dirham.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognised currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 9 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 25.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its capital expenditure program and in relation to working capital requirements.
Group delivered a strong performance in 2014.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth in revenue during 2014.
Net profit and EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2014.
EBITDA margin of Distribution is almost same as last year whereas for Healthcare it decreased slightly which is due to opening of new facilities during the year.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2015 and the five year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 95 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee.
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee.
Rights arising from other contractual arrangements.
The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its principal subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company Limited 99% 99% New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC 99% 99% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai 99% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah 99% 99% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain 99% 99% Reliance Information Technology LLC 99% 99% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC 100% 100% Brightpoint Hospital LLC 99% 99% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC 99% 99% NMC Dubai Investment Park LLC 99% 99% All the above subsidiaries are incorporated in the UAE except for NMC Health Holdco Limited, which is incorporated in England and Wales.
96 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Significant estimates Impairment of inventories Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made of their net realisable value.
For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the inventory type and the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 2014 was US$111,597,000 2013: US$94,839,000 and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2014 was US$1,388,000 2013: US$716,000.
Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Significant judgements Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic effects of the Companys transactions, events and conditions.
The primary economic environment influencing the Companys income dividends is the UAE and the effect of the local environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK.
The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE.
Assets held in the name of the previous shareholder In accordance with local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
As at 31 December 2014 certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$9,321,000 2013: US$9,648,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
Subsequent to year end US$5,177,000 of the land and buildings which were held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group were transferred into the name of a current UAE national shareholder.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 97 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2014, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$1,015,000 included within property, and equipment as at 31 December 2014.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups 41 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 14 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES New and amended standards and interpretations: The Group applied for the first time certain standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2014 and are described in more detail below, have no impact on the Group.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 These amendments provide an exception to the consolidation requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The exception to consolidation requires investment entities to account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.
These amendments have no impact on the Group, since none of the entities in the Group qualifies to be an investment entity under IFRS 10.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting.
These amendments have no impact on the Group, since none of the entities in the Group has any offsetting arrangements.
Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 39 These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required.
These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has no derivatives as of 31 December 2014.
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets-Amendments to IAS 36 These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement on the disclosures required under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
In addition, these amendments require disclosure of the recoverable amounts for the assets or cashgenerating units CGUs for which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed during the period.
These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has not recognised or reversed any impairment loss during the period.
IFRIC 21 Levies IFRIC 21 clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs.
For a levy that is triggered upon reaching a minimum threshold, the interpretation clarifies that no liability should be anticipated before the specified minimum threshold is reached.
This interpretation has no impact on the Group.
98 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle In the 2010-2012 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued seven amendments to six standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendment to IFRS 13 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
This amendment is relevant to the Group as the Group has determined that the effect of discounting is immaterial and so short term receivables and payables have been measured at invoiced amounts.
Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle In the 2011-2013 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued four amendments to four standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
This amendment to IFRS 1 has no impact on the Group, since the Group is an existing IFRS preparer.
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue from BR Medical Suites.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable.
When the Group does not retain the significant risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic service revenues: Clinic service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either inpatient or outpatient medical services.
The group primarily receives clinic service revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Clinic revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for the clinic services which are provided, it bears the credit risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
Sale of Goods Pharmacy: The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods Distribution: Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Groups share of the revenue, as specified in the contract.
Any amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable.
There are currently no material agency relationships.
Healthcare Management fees: Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital.
Management fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 99 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue from BR Medical Suites: BR Medical Suites enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient services using the facilities at BR Medical Suites.
In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities.
Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
Other income Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
Interest income For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Rebates from Suppliers The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
Business combinations and goodwill The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units.
100 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Business combinations involving entities under common control Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall under the scope of IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
The transfer of companies under common control is therefore accounted for using the pooling of interests method.
Under this method there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the transferred entities and hence no goodwill is created upon transfer of ownership as the balances remain at book value.
The consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated statement of cash flows comparative figures are also presented as if the Company had been the parent undertaking of the Group throughout the current and previous year.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore presented as though the Group had always existed in its current form.
Restructuring reserve The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 6% Buildings 6% Leasehold improvements 20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% 20% Medical equipment 10% 25% The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 101 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of consolidated comprehensive income in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income when the asset is derecognised.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Pre-operating expenses Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit.
These are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts.
Accounts receivable with no stated interest rates are measured at invoiced amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
An estimate of doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Equity The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
Accounts payable and accruals Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
102 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
Term loans Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Employees end of service benefits The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs.
With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees including executive directors are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 28.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share see note 14.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 103 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Translation of foreign operations On consolidation the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Since the UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate assets and liabilities and balances in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group used derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and caps to hedge its interest rate risks.
Such derivative financial instruments were initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and were subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps were determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains were included in other assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses were included in other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year were taken directly to profit or loss.
Whilst the policy of the Group is not to apply hedge accounting, the derivatives were economic hedges of liabilities in issue and it is therefore considered appropriate to show the changes in fair value of derivatives in finance costs in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
Impairment of financial assets An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
104 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis.
4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements and not expected to have any impact on the Group are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Annual improvements 2010-2012 Cycle: IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Annual improvements 2011-2013 Cycle: IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 40 Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants.
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.
5 SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss.
These are measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
From the current year, the Group has started allocating its finance costs and IT costs to its segments.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 105 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Group financing and investments including finance costs and finance income are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
Adjustments and eliminations Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are substantially not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment.
106 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED From current year the Group started allocating finance cost and IT cost to its subsidiaries.
Prior period comparatives have not been restated, however, segment EBITDA and segment profit for the current period, had these costs not been allocated, are presented in the table below: Adjustments Distribution Total and Healthcare and services segments eliminations Consolidated US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Year ended 31 December 2014 Expenses Income Depreciation 11,215 2,349 13,564 486 14,050 Finance costs 14,497 14,497 Segment EBITDA 89,138 34,416 123,554 21,096 102,458 Segment profit 77,924 32,067 109,991 32,457 77,534 Reconciliation of Segment EBITDA to Group profit 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment EBITDA 122,332 111,576 Unallocated group administrative expenses 20,010 18,654 Unallocated other income 136 18 Unallocated finance income 3,623 3,814 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 3,394 Impairment of property and equipment 210 Finance costs 14,497 14,344 Depreciation 14,050 9,663 Group Profit before tax 77,534 69,143 Reconciliation of Segment profit to Group profit 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment profit 101,446 102,154 Unallocated finance income 3,623 3,814 Unallocated finance costs 7,175 14,344 Unallocated group administrative expenses 20,010 18,654 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 3,394 Unallocated depreciation 486 451 Unallocated other income 136 18 Group Profit before tax 77,534 69,143 Reconciliation of Group assets 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment assets 668,680 528,748 Unallocated property and equipment 9,341 12,365 Unallocated inventory 26 36 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 7,253 5,526 Unallocated amounts due from related parties 267 Unallocated bank balances and cash 78,633 74,954 Unallocated bank deposits 183,577 193,366 Unallocated intangible assets 3,015 Group assets 950,525 815,262 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 107 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Reconciliation of Group liabilities 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment liabilities 108,797 80,846 Unallocated term loans 206,512 250,200 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 1,101 219 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 11,335 12,547 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 169,607 82,238 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 146 61 Group liabilities 497,498 426,111 Other information The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution Healthcare and services Total US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Year ended 31 December 2014 Customer 1 92,246 92,246 Customer 2 35,005 35,005 127,251 127,251 Year ended 31 December 2013 Customer 1 75,802 75,802 Customer 2 32,715 32,715 108,517 108,517 Geographical information The Group has only one geographical segment United Arab Emirates.
All revenues from external customers are generated in the United Arab Emirates and all non-current assets are located in the United Arab Emirates.
Analysis of revenue by category: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Revenue from services: Healthcare clinic 260,938 207,532 Healthcare management fees 5,717 5,445 266,655 212,977 Sale of goods: Distribution 316,217 265,835 Healthcare 61,059 72,066 377,276 337,901 Total 643,931 550,878 108 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 6 EXPENSES BY NATURE 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 314,408 265,852 Salary expenses 157,990 136,668 Rent expenses 27,728 21,518 Sales promotion expenses 35,174 29,533 Repair & maintenance expenses 7,630 5,796 Others 28,983 25,531 571,913 484,898 Allocated to : Direct costs 434,725 365,336 General and administrative expenses 137,188 119,562 571,913 484,898 The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Depreciation 14,050 9,663 Impairment of property and equipment 210 Finance costs 14,497 14,344 Unamortised finance fees written off 3,394 28,547 27,611 7 OTHER INCOME Other income includes US$30,180,000 2013: US$26,771,000 relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
8 FINANCE COSTS 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank interest 12,324 12,788 Bank charges 2,173 2,258 Change in fair value of derivative financial instrument 702 14,497 14,344 9 FINANCE INCOME 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank and other interest income 3,623 3,814 3,623 3,814 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 109 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense note 6 314,408 265,852 Cost of inventories written off and provided 2,318 2,381 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 27,728 21,518 Depreciation note 15 14,050 9,663 Net Impairment of accounts receivable note 18 2,498 2,462 Employees end of service benefits note 25 3,492 2,362 Net foreign exchange loss 1,490 3,841 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 224 383 Share based payments expense note 28 88 11 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 593 615 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 149 142 audit related assurance services 130 155 other assurance services 15 Tax compliances services 12 25 Tax advisory services 8 25 non audit services 41 19 933 996 Included in the fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts is US$NIL 2013: US$100,000 which was under-accrued in respect of the prior year audit of the Companys annual accounts.
The fees paid to the auditor includes US$92,000 2013: US$85,000 in respect of out of pocket expenses.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2014 or 2013.
12 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS a Staff costs 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Wages and salaries 144,942 126,580 Employees end of service benefits note 26 3,492 2,362 Share based payments expense note 28 88 Others 9,468 7,726 157,990 136,668 110 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 12 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS CONTINUED Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part b below.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2014 2013 Healthcare 3,874 3,169 Distribution & services 1,846 1,726 Administration 174 151 5,894 5,046 b Directors remuneration 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Directors remuneration 2,141 1,746 Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in note 28.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
13 TAX The Group operates solely in the United Arab Emirates and as there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
It is the opinion of management that there are sufficient expenses in the Company to offset taxable income arising in the UK and accordingly any tax liability that could arise is likely to be immaterial.
The unused tax losses amount to US$5,155,000 as at 31 December 2014 2013: US $nil.
14 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.15% 2013: 3.40% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
Companies in UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$112,293,000 2013: US$82,652,000.
Of the total capital expenditure spend during the year, US$94,686,000 2013: US$72,840,000 related to new capital projects and US$17,607,000 2013: US$9,812,000 related to further capital investment in our existing facilities.
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, and the warehouse facilities which had leases renewable on an annual basis note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2014 US$1,015,000 2013: US$50,245,000 of the amounts included in property and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
During the current year, the lease for the land on which Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed which as at 31 December 2013 was an annually renewable lease has been renewed so that it is now a 27 year lease expiring in the year 2040.
112 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 15 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
Certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$9,321,000 31 December 2013: US$9,648,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Software Goodwill Total Software Goodwill Total As at 1 January 1,016 1,016 1,016 1,016 Transfer from Capital work in progress note 15 3,198 3,198 Addition during the year 22 22 As at 31 December 3,220 1,016 4,236 1,016 1,016 Software represents work-in-progress on the ERP system of the Group.
During the year, an amount of US$3,198,000 in respect of ERP software has been transferred from capital work in progress within property and equipment to intangible assets.
Management is currently in the process of estimating the useful economic life of the software and is still determining the amortization method to be applied.
Amortization of the software will commence once it is implemented and goes live.
Management has performed an impairment assessment of ERP software and believes that no impairment is required.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of BR Medical Suites FZ LLC on 1 July 2012.
17 INVENTORIES 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Pharmaceuticals and cosmetics 58,444 44,959 Scientific equipment 11,295 11,899 Consumer products 32,719 27,915 Food 6,041 6,796 Telecommunication equipment 231 569 Consumables 211 290 Opticals 333 358 Goods in transit 1,750 1,594 Other 573 459 111,597 94,839 Less: provisions for slow moving and obsolete inventories 1,388 716 110,209 94,123 The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2014 is US$1,646,000 2013: US$1,781,000.
This is recognised in direct costs.
Charge for the year in respect of provision provided for slow moving and obsolete inventories is US$672,000 2013: US$600,000.
Trust receipts issued by banks amounting to US$25,059,000 2013: US$3,100,000 are secured against the inventories.
18 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Accounts receivable 168,207 145,993 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 9,349 9,696 Other receivables 6,262 6,845 Prepayments 12,751 5,848 196,569 168,382 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 113 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS CONTINUED Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$8,996,000 2013: US$8,241,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 At 1 January 8,241 6,444 Written off 1,743 665 Written back note 10 471 472 Charge for the year note 10 2,969 2,934 At 31 December 8,996 8,241 The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor Total impaired 90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days 365 days US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2014 Accounts receivable 168,207 115,379 37,884 9,985 3,777 1,182 31 December 2013 Accounts receivable 145,993 104,028 31,658 6,053 2,774 1,480 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2014 trade receivables of US$8,996,000 2013: US$8,241,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management note 29.
Of the net trade receivables balance of US$168,207,000 2013: US$145,993,000 amount of US$73,069,000 is against five customers 2013: US$61,353,000 is against five customers.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$7,985,000 31 December 2013: US$9,254,000 as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business.
19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank deposits 183,577 193,366 Bank balances and cash 79,592 75,329 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 169,607 82,238 93,562 186,457 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 143,875 74,183 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 82,209 148,380 Restricted cash 18,909 33,059 Cash and cash equivalents 136,619 79,201 114 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CONTINUED Bank deposits of US$183,577,000 2013: US$193,366,000 are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates.
These are mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 3 to 12 months 2013: 3 to 12 months.
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance imports.
The bank overdrafts and short term borrowings are secured by assets of the Group up to the amount of the respective borrowings and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi, Dr B. R. Shetty and Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4% 2013: 3% to 4% per annum.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had US$19,474,000 2013: US$18,323,000 of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment instalments.
20 SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013: Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 21 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The Group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$10,001,000 debit, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve.
22 RETAINED EARNINGS As at 31 December 2014, retained earnings of US$16,101,000 2013: US$14,333,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
23 DIVIDEND In the AGM on 26 June 2014 the shareholders approved a dividend of 4.4 pence per share, amounting to GBP 8,212,700 US$13,846,000 to be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 31 May 2014.
The dividend amount was paid to the shareholders on 4 July 2014 2013: a dividend of GBP 7,614,286 equivalent to US$11,598,326 was approved on 25 June 2013 and paid on 4 July 2013.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 16 June 2015, a final dividend of 5.4 pence per share, GBP10,028,600 US$15,444,000 will be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 29 May 2015.
24 TERM LOANS 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Current portion 92,055 88,355 Non-current portion 114,457 161,845 206,512 250,200 Amounts are repayable as follows: Within 1 year 92,055 88,355 Between 1 2 years 49,129 50,871 Between 2 5 years 65,328 110,974 206,512 250,200 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 115 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 TERM LOANS CONTINUED During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group drew down term loans of US$263,594,000 Year ended 31 December 2013: US$ 524,465,000 and repaid term loans of US$307,282,000 Year ended 31 December 2013: US$500,627,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group agreed a new syndicated loan facility, led by JP Morgan Chase Bank, of US$ 225,000,000 with an additional available facility of US$75,000,000 which the group has not drawn down to date.
The loan facility is repayable over 54 monthly instalments with a grace period of six months and carries interest at the rate of 1 month US$ LIBOR 3% mandatory costs: if any, per annum.
The new syndicated loan facility was utilised to repay some of the existing debts including the debt with JP Morgan Chase Bank against the facility of US$150,000,000 obtained in 2012 and is also being utilised for capital expenditures.
The Group has utilised an amount of US$ 225,000,000 against the new syndicated loan facility as of 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: US$225,000,000.
This new syndicated loan is guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the Group.
The new syndicated loan is secured against a collateral package which includes an assignment of some insurance company receivables and their proceeds by the Group and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group.
In addition to the JP Morgan loan facility, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawn down and repaid over the year and carry interest at varying rates which include EIBOR margins ranging from 3% to 3.75% per annum, except for one of the loans which carries interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% per annum.
The Group charged an amount of US$3,394,000 in the previous year to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income with respect to unamortised transaction costs of previously existing debts which were settled during the year ended 31 December 2013 using the proceeds of the new syndicated loan led by JP Morgan Chase Bank.
25 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Balance at 1 January 12,099 10,380 Charge for the year 3,492 2,362 Employees end of service benefits paid 657 643 Balance at 31 December 14,934 12,099 Current 2,484 2,063 Noncurrent 12,450 10,036 Balance at 31 December 14,934 12,099 Charge for the year comprise of the following Current service cost 2,991 1,909 Interest cost 501 453 Balance at 31 December 3,492 2,362 In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2014 and 2013, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
The impact of the actuarial valuation is not material to the Group, accordingly no actuarial gain or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2013: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 3.0% 2013: 3.0%.
The expected liability at the date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 4.0% 2013: 4.5%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
116 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 26 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Trade accounts payable 77,906 57,565 Other payables 16,178 13,416 Accrued interest 1,532 705 Accrued expenses 2,428 4,401 98,044 76,087 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms.
27 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom one is a director of the Company and who together have the ability to control the company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
Relationship agreement The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings.
This entitlement reduces or is removed as the collective shareholdings reduce.
The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Sales 9,775 8,828 Purchases 32,336 30,040 Rent charged 422 418 Other Income 970 582 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity Management fees received from such entity by NMC 5,717 5,445 Sales 2,015 2,608 Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Amounts due from related parties 3,603 3,619 Amounts due to related parties 8,380 5,018 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity Amounts due from related parties 4,382 5,635 Shareholder: Amounts due to related parties 61 Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term and carried interest at 0% 31 December 2013: 0% per annum.
As at 31 December 2014 US$1,998,000 of the amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired 31 December 2013: US$3,249,000.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 117 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED The Group has incurred expenses and recharged back an amount of US$3,018,000 31 December 2013: US$12,340,000 made on behalf of a related party where a shareholder who has significant influence over the Group is a key management personnel of that entity.
With the exception of the JP Morgan Chase syndicated loan facility of US$225,000,000, all credit facilities provided by the bankers to the Group are secured by joint and several personal corporate guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Al Qebaisi, Dr B. R. Shetty and Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi.
Pharmacy licenses, under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
Compensation of key management personnel 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Short term benefits 3,074 4,065 Employees end of service benefits 20 19 3,094 4,084 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the three Executive Directors 31 December 2013: two and three 31 December 2013: five senior management personnel.
Two individuals who are related parties of one of the shareholders are employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by those related parties in the year ended 31 December 2014 amounts to US$572,000 2013: US$541,000.
28 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group currently operates two share option schemes: Long term incentive plan LTIP Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The exercise prices are nil.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years.
The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 85.
Short term incentive plan STIP Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model.
Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period since the Companys shares have been publically traded.
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$88,000 2013: US$nil in respect of the cost of providing share options.
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the year ended 31 December 2014, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2014 2014 LTIP STIP Share price at grant date 4.949 4.570 Fair value at measurement date 4.769 4.403 Exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 35% 35% Expected option life 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.23% 1.23% Risk free interest rate 0.98% 0.98% 118 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 28 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The options existing at the year-end were as follows: 2014 2013 Number of Exercise Number of shares price Period when exercisable shares Long term incentive plan LTIP October 2014 160,778 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Short term incentive plan STIP October 2014 55,527 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 216,305 Percentage of issued share capital 0.1% Movement of share options during the year is as follows: 2014 2013 Granted during the year 216,305 Outstanding at 31 December 216,305 No options expired, were exercised or forfeited during the year 2013: nil.
29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
In addition of these financial liabilities the Group had an interest rate swap as of 31 December 2013 which matured during the current year.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management is of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the statement of comprehensive income to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the statement of comprehensive income is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Sensitivity impact as of 31 December 2013 has been calculated after taking into account interest rate swap arrangement held at 31 December 2013.
Effect on profit at Effect on profit at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Increase decrease in basis points US$ 000 US$ 000 100 1,925 1,105 100 1,925 1,105 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business the majority of the Groups customers are Insurance Companies.
The largest insurance company is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 119 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 B2 229 AAA-1 Aa3 812 498 A A1 4,345 701 A A2 267 32,352 A A-1 1,762 A3 A- 599 1,188 Baa2 16,224 789 Baa3 208,694 BBB- 30,229 187,822 BBB Baa1 Baa1 P-2 280 13,099 Without external credit rating 1,149 30,167 Total bank deposit and cash at bank 262,828 268,378 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction and statement of financial position risk.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
120 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Swiss Francs.
Management believes that the foreign currency risk is not significant for any possible movement in foreign currency rates.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, Group restructuring reserve and retained earnings and is measured at US$449,023,000 as at 31 December 2014 2013: US$ 386,236,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 376,119 332,438 Accounts payable and accruals 98,065 76,495 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 263,169 268,695 Net debt 211,015 140,238 Capital 449,023 386,236 Capital and net debt 660,038 526,474 Gearing ratio 32% 27% 30 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2014 of US$8,311,000 2013: US$7,067,000.
31 COMMITMENTS Capital commitments The Group had future capital commitments of US$25,012,000 at 31 December 2014 2013: US$76,402,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
Other commitments 2014 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 10,816 10,491 After one year but not more than five years 44,947 43,984 More than five years 91,003 102,782 146,766 157,257 32 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT The Group entered into the following interest rate swap to manage its interest rate exposure: Negative Notional fair value amount Maturity US$ 000 US$ 000 profile At 31 December 2014 Interest rate swap US$ At 31 December 2013 Interest rate swap US$ 179 24,503 Feb-14 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 121 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT CONTINUED The interest rate swaps were contracted to hedge the interest cash flows on term loans.
As these swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39, the movement in fair value gain loss of US$ NIL for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: gain of US$ 702,000 has been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
During the year the interest rate swap reached maturity and so as at 31 December 2014 the Group no longer had any interest rate swaps.
The notional amounts indicate the volume of transactions outstanding at year end and are neither indicative of the market risk nor credit risk.
The negative fair value of interest rate swaps was included within accounts payable and accruals as other payables as at 31 December 2013.
33 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For financial instruments that are recognized at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization bases on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
Liabilities measured at fair value Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2014 Interest rate swaps 31 December 2013 Interest rate swaps 179 179 During the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The fair value of the interest rate swap is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
It is measured using the Forward Price Method: under this method a forward rate or value is determined based on the current market price or value of the interest rate and an appropriate rate curve and assuming that the forward price, rate or value will be realized in future periods.
122 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements 34 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS New financing facility On 16 February 2015, the Company announced that it has obtained underwriting commitments for a new US$825 million financing facility from a number of international and regional banks through its subsidiary, NMC Healthcare LLC.
The new facility has been structured as two separate tranches: 1 an Amortizing Term Loan Facility of US$350 million equivalent to refinance existing indebtedness of NMC and its subsidiaries including the existing JP Morgan syndicated term loan facility and to provide additional funds for general corporate purposes: and 2 a Delayed Draw Acquisition Facility of US$475 million equivalent to facilitate NMCs ongoing strategy of making phased acquisitions that will be accretive to the Companys underlying business and profitability.
The overall quantum of the new facility, combined with the Groups robust statement of financial position, is expected to ensure adequate available liquidity to capitalize on growth opportunities as they are identified.
Acquisition of Clinica Eugin On 23 February 2015 the Group acquired 86.4% of the issued share capital of Clinica Eugin, a leading global fertility treatment provider based in Barcelona, Spain, for a total consideration of 143m which was settled in cash, thereby obtaining control of Clinica Eugin.
The primary reasons for this acquisition include: Eugin is a leading global IVF centre of excellence, bringing technologies in fertility services to NMCs network in the UAE, accelerating the development of NMC into a centre of clinical excellence for womens health and allowing NMC to establish a foothold in the UAE medical tourism market.
As this acquisition took place on 23 February 2015 which is the same day that the financial statements were authorised for issue, the initial accounting for this business combination is incomplete.
Accordingly, the Group has been unable to provide the remaining disclosures required by paragraph B64 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of business combinations which have taken place after the end of the reporting period such as the amount of goodwill or gain on bargain purchase recognised, disclosures in respect of acquired receivables, major classes of receivables and contingent liabilities and the amount of the non-controlling interest in Clinica Eugin and the measurement basis of that amount.
Transfer of land and buildings Subsequent to year end US$5,177,000 of the land and buildings which were held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group were transferred into the name of a current UAE national shareholder.
There were no other events which would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 123 Financial Statements 124 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
