Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and sixteenth agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not Annual General Meeting of Northgate plc the Company expired.
will be held at 60 Great Portland Street, London W1W 14.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 13 the Board 7RT at 11.30 a. m. on 18 September 2014 for the purpose be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to s570 of of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities resolutions of which resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed within the meaning of s560 of the Act for cash as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 17 will be pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous proposed as special resolutions: resolution as if sub-section 1 of s561 of the Act did 1.
To receive the Directors report and audited accounts not apply to any such allotment provided that this of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2014. power shall be limited: 2.
To declare a final dividend of 6.8p per Ordinary share.
a. to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary 3.
To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report, other shareholders where the equity securities than the part containing the Directors' Remuneration respectively attributable to the interests of all Policy, in the form set out on pages 37 to 51 of the Ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them: and 4.
To approve the Directors' Remuneration Policy in the form set out on pages 39 to 43 of the Directors' b. to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subRemuneration Report in the 2014 Annual Report and paragraph a above of equity securities up to an Accounts.
aggregate nominal value of 3,330,000 and shall expire on the date of the next annual general 5.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company meeting of the Company after the passing of this to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual resolution save that the Company may before General Meeting.
such expiry make an offer or agreement which 6.
To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to would or might require equity securities to be determine the remuneration of the auditor.
allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or 7.
To re-elect Mr RD Mackenzie as a director.
agreement as if the power conferred hereby had 8.
To re-elect Mr AJ Allner as a director.
To re-elect Mr JG Astrand as a director.
That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days 10.
To re-elect Miss G Caseberry as a director.
To re-elect Mr RL Contreras as a director.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally 12.
To re-elect Mr CJR Muir as a director.
authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of s693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of 13.
That the Board be and it is hereby generally and Ordinary shares of 50p each of the Company on such unconditionally authorised pursuant to s551 of the terms and in such manner as the Directors may from Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all powers time to time determine, provided that: of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert a. the maximum number of Ordinary shares any security into shares in the Company up to an hereby authorised to be acquired is 13,300,000 aggregate nominal amount of 22,000,000 provided representing approximately 10% of the issued that this authority shall expire on the date of the Ordinary share capital of the Company as at 24 next annual general meeting of the Company after June 2014: the passing of this resolution save that the Company b. the minimum price which may be paid for any may before such expiry make an offer or agreement such Ordinary share is 50p: which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares c. the maximum price excluding expenses which to be granted after such expiry and the Board may may be paid for any such Ordinary share is an allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert amount equal to 105% of the average of the securities into shares in pursuance of such an offer or middle market quotations for an Ordinary share in the Company as derived from The London Stock 109 Northgate plc Accounts Annual report and Notice of Annual General accounts 2014 Meeting c109372.
indb 109 15 07 2014 12:59 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Exchange Daily Official List for the five business The Directors of the Company consider that all the proposals days immediately preceding the day on which set out in the above Resolutions are in the best interests such share is contracted to be purchased: of the Company and of the shareholders as a whole.
They unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them as d. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings the end of the next Annual General Meeting of which amount in aggregate to 396,101 shares representing the Company after the passing of this resolution approximately 0.3% of the issued Ordinary share capital of unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company.
the Company in general meeting: and 24 June 2014 e. the Company may make a contract to purchase By Order of the Board its Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, D Henderson which contract will or may be executed wholly or Secretary partly after the expiry of such authority, and may Registered office: purchase its Ordinary shares in pursuance of any Norflex House such contract.
That the Regulations contained in the document Darlington, DL1 4DY submitted to the Meeting marked A and signed by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification be and the same are hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company to the exclusion of and in substitution for all existing Articles of Association of the Company.
110 Northgate plc Annual report and accounts 2014 c109372.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting which is put by a 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the member attending the Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of if it would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or if it the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights disclosure of confidential information.
attaching to different shares held by him.
As at 24 June 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend of this notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 133,232,518 the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Ordinary shares of 50 pence each, carrying one vote each and 1,000,000 director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to preference shares of 50 pence each, which do not carry any rights to vote represent you.
Your proxy must vote as you instruct and must attend the on the above resolutions.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company Meeting for your vote to be counted.
Appointing a proxy does not preclude are 133,232,518. you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
The contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares 3.
A proxy form which may be used to make this appointment and give proxy in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the instructions accompanies this notice.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are Meeting, the total voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the set out in the notes to the proxy form.
As an alternative to completing a hard Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions copy proxy form, proxies may be appointed by using the electronic proxy or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note 6 this notice will be available on the Companys website: below.
CREST members may appoint proxies using the CREST electronic www.
proxy appointment service see Note 7 below.
In each case the appointment must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of 13.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting the Meeting.
to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 14.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold of the Act a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move and between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed which may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
business, unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote, whether in person or by proxy, at the or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any Meeting, members must be registered in the register of members of the person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this Company 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or, if the Meeting is right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution adjourned, 48 hours before the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the the Company not later than 6 August 2014, being the date 6 clear weeks Meeting or adjourned meeting.
before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the 6.
Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy online should visit www.
business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds capitashareportal.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
If you have not for the request.
already registered with The Share Portal you will need to identify yourself with your personal Investor Code see Attendance Card.
To be valid your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Capita Registrars no later than 48 hours before the time set for the Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
111 Northgate plc Accounts Annual report and Notice for Annual General accounts 2014 Meeting c109372.
