Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Responsibility statement Report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, statements in accordance with International Financial and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also the strategic report includes a fair review of the chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements development and performance of the business and the under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the position of the Company and the undertakings included Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss face.
of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 Presentation Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of Financial Statements requires that Directors: Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to properly select and apply accounting policies: be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the present information, including accounting policies, in a Companys performance, business model and strategy.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Bob Contreras specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users Chief Executive Officer to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and 24 June 2014 financial performance, and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
57 Northgate plc Governance Annual report and Directors responsibilities accounts 2014 c109372.
