Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 173 Glossary 3-D seismic survey Seismic survey that is acquired, processed and interpreted to yield athree-dimensional picture of the subsurface.
2009 Ryder Scott Report The report prepared by Ryder Scott relating to the Groups reserves andresources, dated 1 July 2009.
2010 2011 2012 Ryder Scott Report The report prepared by Ryder Scott relating to the Groups reserves, dated31 December of the relevant year.
2013 Ryder Scott Report The report prepared by Ryder Scott relating to the Groups reserves andresources, dated 31 August 2013.
2014 Ryder Scott Report The report prepared by Ryder Scott relating to the Groups reserves andresources, dated 31 December 2014.
A Anti-Monopoly Agency The Republic of Kazakhstan anti-monopoly authority.
API gravity The industry standard method of expressing specific density of crude oil orother liquid hydrocarbons as recommended by the American Petroleum Institute.
Higher API gravities mean lower specific gravity and lighter oils.
When the API gravity is greater than 10, the product is lighter and floats onwater: if it is less than 10, it is heavier than water and sinks.
Generally speaking, oil with an API gravity between 40 and 45 commands the highest prices.
appraisal well A well or wells drilled to follow up a discovery and evaluate its commercial potential.
associated gas Gas, which occurs in crude oil reservoirs in a gaseous state.
Authorised Oil and Gas Agency The States authorised agency in the area of oil and gas, acting on the instructions of the President and the Government, currently, the MOE.
B barrel bbl The standard unit of volume: 1 barrel 159 litres or 42 US gallons.
basin A large area holding a thick accumulation of sedentary rock.
bcf Billion cubic feet, a billion defined as 1,000,000,000.
On average 1 bcf of sales gas 1.055 petajoules.
boe Barrels of crude oil equivalent, i. e. the factor used by Nostrum to convert volumes of different hydrocarbon production to barrels of oil equivalent.
bopd Barrels of crude oil per day.
boepd Barrels of crude oil equivalent per day.
bscf d Billion standard cubic feet per day.
btu British Thermal Unit measurement unit for energy.
CAC A pipeline with two branches originating in Turkmenistan and meeting in Kazakhstan before crossing into Russia and connecting to the Russian pipeline system, with an annual throughput capacity of 60.2 billion cubic metres cash Cash and cash equivalents including current and non-current investments.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 174 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Regulatory information Glossary continued casing Relatively thin-walled, large diameter steel rods that are screwed together toform a casing string, which is run into a core hole or well and cemented in place.
Caspian region Parts of countries adjacent to the Caspian Sea.
Chinarevskoye field The Chinarevskoye oil and gas condensate field.
2 coal A sedimentary rock composed primarily of carbonaceous material formed by plant remains transformed by heat and time.
Common Units Limited partner interests each representing a fractional part of the rights and obligations of all limited partners of Nostrum Oil & Gas LP.
Competent Authority The States central executive agency, designated by the Government to acton behalf of the State to exercise rights relating to the execution and performance of subsoil use contracts, except for contracts for exploration and production of commonly occurring minerals.
This was, until recently, theMinistry of Energy and Mineral Resources of Kazakhstan, which in August 2014 was reorganised into the Ministry of Energy MOE with respect to the oil and gas industry.
Competition Law The Kazakhstan Law On Competition No 112-IV, dated 25 December 2008, which came into effect on 1 January 2009. condensate Hydrocarbons which are gaseous in a reservoir, but which condense to form a liquid as they rise to the surface where the pressure is much less.
contingent resources Deposits that are estimated, on a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known accumulations but that are not currently considered commercially recoverable.
cost oil Cost oil denotes an amount of crude oil produced in respect of which the market value is equal to Nostrums monthly expenses that may be deducted pursuant to the PSA include all operating costs, exploration costs and development costs up to an annual maximum of 90% of the annual gross realised value of hydrocarbon production.
crude oil A mixture of liquid hydrocarbons of different molecular weights.
D DAF Sales made on delivery at frontier terms.
development During development, engineering teams design the most efficient development options to build wells and associated infrastructure to produce hydrocarbons from a gas field within a proven productive reservoir as defined by exploration and appraisal activities.
The three phases of development are exploration and appraisal, development and production.
Development Plans The development plans approved by the SCFD in March 2009.
Directors or Board The directors of the Company.
downstream Downstream refers to all petroleum operations occurring after delivery ofcrude oil or gas to refinery or fractionation plant.
downtime Downtime is all time during which an operation is postponed, usually due tobad weather or mechanical failure.
drilling fluid mud A mixture of water and drilling additives used to cool the drill bit, lift cuttings and control swelling clays.
Drilling fluid is stored in a sump during drilling.
dry gas Dry gas is natural gas methane and ethane with no significant content of heavier hydrocarbons.
It is gaseous at subsurface and surface conditions.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 175 E E&P Exploration and production.
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
EBITDA Profit Before Tax non recurring expenses Finance Costs Foreign Exchange Loss Gain ESOP Depreciation Interest Income Other Expenses Income.
ecological risk Environmental stressors such as chemicals, land change, disease, invasive species and climate change.
Environmental Code The Kazakhstan Environment Code No 212, dated 9 January 2007, asamended.
ethane Saturated hydrocarbon alkane with two carbon atoms in its molecule C H. 2 6 The second member of the paraffin series.
Abasic feedstock for petrochemical industries.
Exploration Permit The geological allotment Annex to the Licence issued by the Competent Authority to Zhaikmunai LLP.
exploration phase The phase of operations which covers the search for oil or gas by carrying out detailed geological and geophysical surveys followed up where appropriate by exploratory drilling.
exploration well Well drilled purely for exploratory information gathering purposes in a particular area.
F farm-in Transfer of a percentage of an oil or gas permit held by the farmor in return for partial or complete delivery of the work program by the farmee s. Notethat this work would normally have had to have been delivered and paid for by the farmor.
farmee Earns a percentage interest in an oil and gas permit by helping the company that holds the permit to deliver the work program required by permit.
farmor A farmor holds an oil and gas permit and agrees to work with another company who can deliver the work program required by the permit.
In return, the farmee is given a percentage interest in the permit.
farm-out A contractual agreement with the holder of an oil and gas permit to assign all or a percentage of that interest to another party in exchange for delivering the work program required by the permit, or fulfilling other contractually specified conditions.
FCA Sales made under free carrier terms.
FCA Uralsk Sales made under free carrier terms according to which Nostrum delivers to the terminal in Uralsk and transportation risk and risk of loss are transferred to the buyer after delivery to the carrier.
field An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structure feature and or stratigraphic condition.
FOB Sales made under free on board terms.
FSA Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom.
FSMA The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 176 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Regulatory information Glossary continued G gas Petroleum that consists principally of light hydrocarbons.
It can be divided into lean gas, primarily methane but often containing some ethane and smaller quantities of heavier hydrocarbons also called sales gas, and wet gas, primarily ethane, propane and butane as well as smaller amounts of heavier hydrocarbons: partially liquid under atmospheric pressure.
gas condensate The mixture of liquid hydrocarbons that results from condensation of petroleum hydrocarbons existing initially in a gaseous phase in an underground reservoir.
Gas Treatment Facility GTF Facility for the treatment of associated gas and gas condensate resulting in different products stabilised condensate, LPG and dry gas for commercial sales.
78 PHDQV WKH ILUVW XQLW RI WKH DV 7UHDWPHQW DFLOLW 78 PHDQV WKH VHFRQG XQLW RI WKH DV 7UHDWPHQW DFLOLW 78 PHDQV WKH WKLUG XQLW RI WKH DV 7UHDWPHQW DFLOLW GDRs The global depository receipts of Nostrum Oil & Gas LP.
geology The study of rocks.
geophysics The study of the earth using physics and mathematics.
Geophysics uses methods such as seismic surveying, magnetic and gravity imaging to explore the subsurface.
Government The government of Kazakhstan.
greenhouse gas A gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation, e. g. carbon dioxide.
gross oil and gas wells acres Gross oil and gas wells or gross acres are the total number of wells or acres in which the Group has an interest, without regard to the size of that interest.
Group Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC and, as the context requires, its direct and indirect consolidated subsidiaries.
H HSE Health, safety and environment.
hydrocarbons Compounds formed from the elements hydrogen H and carbon C, which may be in solid, liquid or gaseous form.
hydrocarbon reserves Hydrocarbon reserves have been proved, and are referred to as 3P, 2P and 1P depending on the likelihood of commercial production from that field.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
J joint venture A joint venture is a set of trading entities who have agreed to act in concert to share the cost and rewards of exploring for and producing oil or gas from a permit.
joule Unit of energy used for measuring gas volumes.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 177 K Kazakhstan The Republic of Kazakhstan.
KazMunaiGas State-owned oil and gas company of Kazakhstan.
KazMunaiGas Exploration Onshore oil and gas exploration production subsidiary of KazMunayGas.
Production KMG EP kBOE Thousand barrels of oil equivalent.
km Kilometre s. Kyoto Protocol The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
L Licence Licence series MG No.
253-D Oil issued to Zhaikmunai LLP by the Government on 26 May 1997, including amendments.
Licencing Law The Kazakhstan Law On Licensing No.
214, dated 11 January 2007, asamended, which came into effect on 9 August 2007. liquids A sales product in liquid form produced as a result of further processing bythe onshore plant: for example, condensate and LPG.
Listing Rules The listing rules made by the Financial Services Authority FSA under section 73A of the FSMA.
London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange.
LPG Liquefied petroleum gas, the name given to the mix of propane and butane in their liquid state.
M m Metre s. 3 m Cubic metre s. 3 m d Cubic metres per day.
manhours An hour regarded in terms of the amount of work that can be done by one person within this period.
mbbls Thousands of barrels of crude oil.
mmbbls Millions of barrels of oil.
mboe Thousands of barrels of oil equivalent.
mmboe Millions of barrels of oil equivalent.
mmcm Millions of cubic metres.
MEP The Kazakhstan Ministry of Environmental Protection.
MINT The Kazakhstan Ministry of Industry and New Technologies.
MOE The Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan, the States central executive agency, acting based upon its Regulations approved by the Resolution of the Government, which is currently the Competent Authority in oil and gas andthe Authorised Oil and Gas Agency.
mmscf d Million standard cubic feet per day for dry gas.
mscf One thousand cubic feet.
mtpa Million tonnes per annum.
multilateral well A well with several small branches laterals drilled out from the main well.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 178 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Regulatory information Glossary continued N NBK National Bank of Kazakhstan.
Nostrum Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC, the listed company of the Group.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Registered Office: Corporate Headquarters: 53-54 Grosvenor Street Gustav Mahlerplein 23B London W1K 3HU 1082 MS Amsterdam UK The Netherlands O operator The individual or company responsible for conducting oil and gas exploration, development and production activities on an oil and gas lease or concession on its own behalf and, if applicable, for other working interest owners, generally pursuant to the terms of a joint operating agreement orcomparable agreement.
P P&A Plugged and abandoned to place a cement plug into a dry hole or noneconomic well and abandon the well.
Partnership Nostrum Oil & Gas LP, which was the holding company of the Group before the reorganisation.
petroleum Hydrocarbons, whether solid, liquid or gaseous.
The proportion of different compounds in a petroleum find varies from discovery to discovery.
If a reservoir primarily contains light hydrocarbons, it is described as a gas field.
If heavier hydrocarbons predominate, it is called an oil field.
An oil field may feature free gas above the oil and contain a quantity of light hydrocarbons, also called associated gas.
PRMS 2007 Petroleum Resources Management System, which are a set of definitions and guidelines designed to provide a common reference for the international petroleum industry, sponsored by the Society for Petroleum Engineers, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, World Petroleum Council and the Society for Petroleum Evaluation Engineers.
processing Processing of saleable product from hydrocarbons sourced from oil wells and gas wells.
Production Permit The mining allotment Annex to the Licence, issued by the Competent Authority to Zhaikmunai LLP.
production well A well that has been drilled for producing oil or gas, or one that is capable of production once the producing structure and characteristics are determined.
profit oil Profit oil is the difference between cost oil and the total amount of crude oil produced each month, which is shared between the State and Zhaikmunai LLP.
prospective resources 4XDQWLWLHV RI SHWUROHXP ZKLFK DUH HVWLPDWHG RQ D JLYHQ GDWH WR EH potentially recoverable from undiscovered accumulations.
Proven reserves 1P Proven or proved reserves 1P are those reserves that, to a high degree ofcertainty 90% confidence, are recoverable.
There is relatively little risk associated with these reserves.
Proven developed reserves are reserves thatcan be recovered from existing wells with existing infrastructure and operating methods.
Proven undeveloped reserves require development.
Probable reserves Probable reserves are those reserves that analysis of geological and engineering data suggests are more likely than not to be recoverable.
Thereis at least a 50% probability that reserves recovered will exceed Probable Reserves.
Proven plus probable reserves are referred to as 2P.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 179 Possible reserves Possible reserves are those reserves that, to a low degree of certainty 10% confidence, are recoverable.
There is relatively high risk associated with these reserves.
Proven, probable and possible reserves are referred to as 3P.
PSA or Production Sharing Agreement The contract for additional exploration, production and production sharing of crude oil hydrocarbons in the Chinarevskoye oil and gas condensate field in the West-Kazakhstan oblast No.
81, dated October 31, 1997, as amended, between Zhaikmunai LLP and the Competent Authority currently MOE, representing the State.
PSA Law Kazakhstan Law No.
68-III On Production Sharing Agreements for Constructing Offshore Petroleum Operations, dated 8 July 2005.
Q QIB A qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
R recovery The second stage of hydrocarbon production during which an external fluidsuch as water or gas is injected into the reservoir to maintain reservoir pressure and displace hydrocarbons towards the wellbore.
reservoir A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs.
royalty An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil orgas production free of costs of production.
Ryder Scott Independent petroleum consultants Ryder Scott Company LP, headquartered at 621 Seventeenth Street, Suite 1550, Denver, Colorado, 80293, USA.
S sales gas Natural gas that has been processed by gas plant facilities and meets therequired specifications under gas sales agreements.
SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
secondee A person who is transferred temporarily to alternative employment, orseconded.
Securities Act The United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
seismic The use of shock waves generated by controlled explosions of dynamite or other means to ascertain the nature and contour of underground geological structures.
shut in Cease production from a well.
sidetrack well A well or borehole that runs partly to one side of the original line of drilling.
social infrastructure Assets that accommodate social services, i. e. hospitals, schools, community housing etc.
SPE Society of Petroleum Engineers.
spud The commencement of drilling operations.
stakeholder A person or entity who may affect, be affected by or perceive themselves to be affected by an entitys decisions or activities.
State Acceptance Commission A State Acceptance Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the competent body authorised to, among other things, confirm that permanent operations can commence for certain facilities, including the Gas Treatment Facility.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 180 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Regulatory information Glossary continued State Share The share of hydrocarbon production due in cash or kind to the Republic of Kazakhstan under the PSA.
Subsoil Law: Old Subsoil Law The Kazakhstan Law On Subsoil and Subsoil Use No.
2828, dated 27 January 1996, as amended, recently replaced with the New Subsoil Law.
New Subsoil Law The most recent Kazakhstan Law On Subsoil and Subsoil Use No.
Substitution The ability for Zhaikmunai LLP to elect to undertake, upon satisfaction of certain conditions, to be substituted for the Issuer as Issuer of the Notes, whereupon it will assume all of the obligations of the Issuer under the Notes.
suspended well A suspended well is not currently used for assessment or production and has been shut in.
It will either be returned to assessment or production or plugged and abandoned.
T Takeover Code The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
tcf One trillion cubic feet.
Tenge or KZT The lawful currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
titleholder The titleholder is the party to whom a permit is granted by the government.
12 trillion 10 U UK Corporate Governance Code Set of principles of good corporate governance for listed companies promulgated by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
UNGG Uralsk Oil and Gas Explorations Expedition.
The Government of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic decided in March 1960 to create a consortium  for conducting oil and gas exploration in the Uralsk region.
In the 1960s, the consortium was involved in more than 59exploration projects.
In 1970, the consortium was renamed Uralsk Enlarged Oil-Gas Exploration Expedition.
US Dollars or US$ The lawful currency of the United States of America.
W well A hole drilled to test an unknown reservoir or to produce from a known reservoir.
wellhead The wellhead includes the forged or cast steel fitting on top of a well welded or bolted to the top of the surface casing, as well as casingheads, tubingheads, Christmas tree, stuffing box and pressure gauges.
workover Routine maintenance or remedial operations on a producing well in order tomaintain, restore or increase production.
work program A schedule of works agreed between parties permit holders, farmees and government contracted to be delivered in a defined time frame.
Water Code The Water Code of Kazakhstan No.
WUP or Water Use Permit The permit granted by the relevant Government authority with respect towater use pursuant to the Water Code.
Z Zhaikmunai LLP Operating company of the Group Corporate Office: Representative Office: 59 2, Eurasia Prospect Office 319 Uralsk, 090002 2 2 Kurman Batyr Prospect Republic of Kazakhstan Astana, 010000 Republic of Kazakhstan
