06 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Where we operate Advantageous location of assets Key Our main operational facilities are located at Current destinations Oil condensate the 274 square kilometre Chinarevskoye field in north-west Kazakhstan.
We now have three additional licenses, allwithin a 120km radius of this location.
Thisadvantageous location is core toour business case, allowing us to leverage our existing infrastructure and operating anddevelopment teams.
Sweden Finland Russia Norway Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Belarus Ireland United Poland Kingdom Netherlands Germany Kazakhstan Belgium Czech Ukraine Republic Slovakia Moldova Austria Hungary Romania Switzerland France Slovenia Croatia Kyrgyzstan Bosnia Uzbekistan Serbia Georgia Bulgaria Italy Macedonia Azerbaijan Albania Armenia Tajikistan Turkmenistan Spain Greece Turkey Portugal Transportation dynamics and routes Crude Condensate LPG Crude oil is transported through Condensate is transported through LPG is transported on trucks from ourown liquids pipeline directly from our own liquids pipeline from the thefield site to our rail terminal where the field site.
15% is sold domestically fieldsite and then 100% is exported by it is loaded on to special trains and andthe remainder is sold through rail to the Russian Black Sea Port of then transported to the off-taker.
The ourrail terminal to various destinations Taman.
We have a long term off-take majority of our LPG is sold at Black Sea in Finland and through the Black Sea agreement with Trafigura for our ports and distributed by traders to ports.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 07 Russia Chinarevskoye field Darjinskoye field  field North-west Kazakhstan Rostoshinskoye field Uralsk Key Border Nostrum oil loading rail terminal at Rostoshi Gas pipeline Nostrum oil pipeline Gas treatment facility GTF Oil treatment Nostrum gas pipeline facility OTF Oil pipeline Dry gas Expanding for the future As a company, Nostrum is continually Dry gas is transported along our own With the preparatory work to double evaluating the destinations to which 17km pipeline, which connects to the production capacity firmly underway, we sell in order to achieve the best Central Asia gas pipeline the gas is all of the related infrastructure, upon possible netbacks for the Company.
sold domestically at this connection completion of GTU3, will accommodate point.
the potential increased levels of production.
This will again further improve our efficiencies and effective use of existing infrastructure.
Transportation routes and destinations are currently expected to remain unchanged.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
