Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 GLOSSARY 2012 Code means the UK Corporate with registered number 07098618 whose EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to Governance Code published by the FRC in registered office is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops time of the employee benefit trust established September 2012, as amended from time Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, for the purposes of the JSOS, currently to time.
2014 Code means the UK Corporate Corporate website means www.
ESOS means the HMRC-approved Ocado Governance Code published by the FRC in ocadogroup.
2001 Executive Share Option Scheme and September 2014, as amended from time the Ocado 2001 Non-HMRC approved CR means Corporate Responsibility.
CSTM means Customer Service Team 2014 ESOS means the Ocado 2014 Exceptional items means items that due to Member, the title given to our customer facing Executive Share Option Scheme.
their material and non-recurring nature have delivery drivers.
been classified separately in order to draw Active customers means customers who them to the attention of the reader of the Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means have shopped with Ocado in the previous a dedicated highly automated warehouse financial statements.
used for the operation of the business.
There Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Administrative expenses means all IT are three CFCs: CFC1 in Hatfield, CFC2 in Neill Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, Dordon and CFC3 in Andover.
employment costs of all head office functions, CFC4 will be located in Erith.
which include legal, finance, human Financial period means the 52 week Deloitte means Deloitte LLP.
resources, marketing and procurement, rent period, or 53 week period where and other property-related costs for the head Directors means the directors of the relevant, ending the closest Sunday to office, all fees for professional services and 30 November.
Company whose names are set out on pages the depreciation, amortisation and impairment 62 and 63, or the directors of the Companys Financial year or FY see Financial period.
associated with head office IT equipment, subsidiaries from time to time as the context software, fixtures and fittings and expenses may require.
FRC means the Financial Reporting relating to the Groups share schemes.
Directors remuneration policy means the Admission means the admission of the remuneration policy which was approved GAAP means generally accepted ordinary shares of the Company to the by shareholders at the 2014 annual general accounting principles.
premium listing segment of the Official meeting and is set out on pages 96 to 110.
GHG means greenhouse gas es.
List and to trading on the London Stock Disclosure and transparency rules means Exchanges main market for listed securities GIP means the Growth Incentive Plan.
the disclosure rules and transparency rules which occurred on 26 July 2010. made under Part VI of the Financial Services Gross sales means sales net of returns, AGM means the Annual General Meeting and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
including charges for delivery, before of the Company, which will be held on deducting relevant vouchers, offers and value Distribution costs means all the costs 15 May 2015 at 11 am at Peterborough added tax.
Gross sales also includes income incurred, excluding product costs, to the point Court, 133 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2BB.
received pursuant to the Morrisons agreement.
of sale, usually the customers home.
This Relevant vouchers and offers include moneyAnnual Incentive Plan or AIP means the includes the payroll-related expenses for the off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and Executive Director incentive plan for the Group picking, dispatch and delivery of product sold multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price applicable to a particular financial year.
to the point of sale, the cost of making those of two.
deliveries, including fuel, tolls, maintenance of Articles means the articles of association vehicles, the operating costs of the properties Gross sales Retail means sales of the of the Company.
required for the picking, dispatch and onward Groups retail operation being Ocado.
com, Board means the board of directors of the delivery operations and all associated fetch.
co. uk Company or its subsidiaries from time to time depreciation, amortisation and impairment Group means Ocado Group plc and its as the context may require.
charges, call centre costs and payment subsidiaries.
Block Listing Facilities means the facilities HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & whereby a number of shares have been block DPV means deliveries per van per week.
listed but will only be allotted when various EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure share scheme options have been exercised.
IAS means International Accounting which Ocado has defined as earnings before Standard s. Chairmans Share Matching Award net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, means a one-off award of shares to Lord amortisation, impairment and exceptional IFRIC means International Financial Rose, made in May 2013. items.
Companies Act means the Companies Act EBT as relating to the Income statement, 2006. means earnings before tax.
As relating to IFRS means International Financial share schemes, means employee benefit trust.
Reporting Standard s. Company means Ocado Group plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
206 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Shareholder Information www.
com IP means Intellectual Property.
comprised principally of bank interest and Revenue.
Relevant vouchers and offers include other interest.
Finance costs are comprised money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers ISA UK & Ireland means International of interest on bank loans and overdrafts, and multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the Standard on Auditing in the UK and Ireland.
interest on finance leases and interest on other price of two.
John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent financing arrangements.
SaaS means software as a service.
company of Waitrose, incorporated in England NFDC means the Non-Food Distribution and Wales with registered number 233462 Sharesave Scheme or SAYE Scheme Centre in Welwyn Garden City, a dedicated whose registered office is at 171 Victoria Street, means the Ocado employee savings-related highly automated warehouse used for the London, SW1E 5NN.
share option plan approved by HMRC.
SAYE1 means the first invitations made under JSOS means the Groups Joint Share Non-Executive Directors means the the scheme in 2010, SAYE2 means the Ownership Scheme.
It comprises three issues non-executive Directors of the Company second invitations made under the scheme in called JSOS1, JSOS2 and JSOS3.
designated as such on pages 62 2012 and SAYE3 means the third invitations KPI means key performance indicators.
and 63. made under the scheme in 2013.
Notice of Meeting means the notice of the Shareholder means a holder for the time KPMG means KPMG LLP.
being of ordinary shares in the Company.
LIBOR means the London Interbank Ocado.
com means the Groups online SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
Life guarantee means the minimum product SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is life guaranteed by Ocado.
Ocado Council means the Ocado forum each line of stock used to consult with our employees.
Smart Pass previously Saving Pass means Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Ocado Smart Platform or OSP means the Ocado pre-pay membership scheme Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as the end-to-end solution for operating online which includes the delivery pricing scheme in the grocery market, which has been previously known as Delivery Pass and the amended.
discount membership scheme formerly known LPP means Low Price Promise, the Ocado as Saving Pass.
OPW means orders per week.
vouchering scheme which entitles customers Sourcing agreement means the various to receive discount vouchers where their Other income means primarily revenue sourcing and branding agreements between shopping basket has cost more than it would for advertising services provided by Ocado have at selected competitors.
Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
to suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, commission income and sublease Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used LTIP means the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan for Executive Directors and payments.
Other income is recognised in for the intermediate handling of customers selected senior managers.
the period to which it relates on an accruals orders.
Substitution means an alternative product Management Committee means senior management responsible for managing the Participants means eligible staff who provided in place of the original product day-to-day affairs of the business.
participate in one of the Companys staff ordered by a customer.
TSR means total shareholder return the MHE means mechanical handling equipment.
Prospectus means the Companys growth in value of a shareholding over a prospectus dated 6 July 2010 prepared in specified period, assuming that dividends are MHE JVCo means MHE JVCo Limited, a connection with the Companys Admission.
reinvested to purchase additional units of the company incorporated in England and Wales stock.
with registered number 8576462, whose PwC means  LLP, the Groups statutory auditors.
UPH means average units processed per registered office is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops labour hour.
Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, R&D means Research and Development.
MHE JVCo is jointly USDAW means the Union of Shop, owned by the Company and Morrisons.
Regulations means Schedule 8 of the Distributive and Allied Workers.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Morrisons means Wm Morrison Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a Supermarkets PLC, a company incorporated 2008 as amended by the Large and Mediumcompany incorporated in England and Wales in England and Wales with registered number sized Companies and Groups Accounts and with registered number 00099405, whose 353949, whose registered office is at Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. registered office is at 171 Victoria Street, Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, West London, SW1E 5NN.
Revenue means online sales net of returns through the Webshop and Ocado on the Go, Webshop means the customer facing Morrisons.
com means Morrisons online including charges for delivery, but excluding internet-based virtual shop accessible via the retail business.
relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
co. uk The recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees and www.
Net finance costs means finance income charged to Morrisons are also included in less finance costs.
