Notes to the financial statements 1 Corporate information Ophir Energy plc the Company and ultimate parent of the Group is a public limited company incorporated, domiciled and listed in England.
Its registered offices are located at 123 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6DE.
Ophir Energys business is the development of offshore and deepwater oil and gas exploration assets.
The Company has an extensive and diverse portfolio of exploration interests across Africa and Asia.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2015 and the Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Boards behalf by Nicholas Smith and Nick Cooper.
2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for revaluation of certain derivative instruments measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except as otherwise indicated.
Comparative figures for the period to 31 December 2013 are for the year ended on that date.
New and amended accounting standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following relevant new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2014: IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRIC 21 Levies These new and amended standards and interpretations have not materially affected amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following interpretation to existing standards relevant to the Group is not yet effective and had not been early adopted by the Group.
The Group expects to adopt this interpretation in accordance with the effective date.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1.
The narrow-focus amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements clarify, rather than significantly change, existing IAS 1 requirements.
In most cases the proposed amendments respond to overly prescriptive interpretations of the wording in IAS 1.
The following standards and interpretations, relevant to the Group, have been issued by the IASB, but have not yet been endorsed by the EU for their application to become mandatory: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 9 amends the classification and measurement of financial instruments: and IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IFRS 14 allows an entity, whose activities are subject to rate-regulation, to continue applying most of its existing accounting policies for regulatory deferral account balances upon its first-time adoption of IFRS.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IFRS 15 replaces all existing revenue requirements IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and SIC 31 Revenue Barter Transactions 102 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Involving Advertising Services in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Amendments to IAS 19 and improvements to IFRSs 20102012 and 20112013 cycles, with an effective date for the annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 Cycle, with effective date for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The Group has reviewed the impact to financial reporting for the changes arising from these standards and interpretations and they are not expected to materially affect amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups financial statements.
The impact of the adoption of other standards noted above has not been assessed by the Group.
2.2 Basis consolidation The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries controlled by the Company and joint operations that are subject to joint control, drawn up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: and vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit and loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit and loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within the Consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies a Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation E&E expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources.
The Group applies the successful efforts method of accounting for E&E costs as permitted by IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs such as geological, geochemical and geophysical costs, exploratory drilling and other direct costs associated with finding mineral resources are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Costs other than payments for the acquisition of rights to explore incurred prior to acquiring legal rights to explore an area and general exploration costs not specific to any particular licence or prospect are charged directly to the income statement.
E&E assets are not amortised prior to the determination of the results of exploration activity.
At completion of evaluation activities, if technical and commercial feasibility is demonstrated, then, following recognition of commercial reserves, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset will be reclassified as a development and production asset subject to an impairment assessment before reclassification.
If, on completion of evaluation activities, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the Group decides not to continue E&E activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful E&E are written off to the income statement in the period of that determination.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Impairment E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of an E&E asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for impairment test purposes is generally the block, except that a number of block interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each block are interdependent.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, management will assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset or CGU.
This review includes a status report confirming that E&E drilling is still under way or firmly planned, or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine that the discovery is economically viable.
This assessment is based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and confirming that sufficient progress is being made to establish development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, or the value of the asset cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, the balance of the E&E costs are written off in the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Farm-in farm-out arrangements The Group may enter into farm-in or farm-out arrangements, where it may introduce partners to share in the development of an asset.
For transactions involving assets at the exploration and evaluation phase, the Group adopts an accounting policy as permitted by IFRS 6 such that the Group does not record any expenditure made on its behalf under a carried interest by a farm-in partner the farmee.
Where applicable past costs are reimbursed, any cash consideration received directly from the farmee is credited against costs previously capitalised in relation to the whole interest with any excess accounted for by the farmor as a gain on disposal.
Farmed-out oil and gas properties are accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
b Intangibles Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
Where this is indicated, management will assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset.
The review is based upon a status report detailing the Groups intention for development of the asset.
Where it cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, all costs are written off.
When an oil or gas field has been approved for development, the accumulated exploration and appraisal costs are transferred to oil and gasproperties.
c Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest NCI in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer elects to measure the components of NCI that are present ownership interests that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in general & administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Those oil and gas reserves that are able to be reliably measured are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot be reliably measured, are not recognised.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date being the date the acquirer gains control in profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is not within the scope of IAS39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate IFRS.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
104 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements d Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest NCI over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 December and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
In determining whether goodwill is impaired the Group reviews the status of projects including recent farm-out transactions and whether the Groups intention is to further develop the Groups various assets.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, which comprises furniture and fittings and computer equipment, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating asintended.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment calculated using the straight line method at rates to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial position date, of each asset over expected useful lives ranging from three to 10 years.
f Investments in subsidiaries The Company holds monetary balances with its subsidiaries of which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Such balances are considered to be part of the Companys net investment in its subsidiaries.
The carrying values of investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and short-term deposits Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, but excludes any restricted cash.
Restricted cash is not available for use by the Group and therefore is not considered highly liquid for example cash set aside to cover rehabilitation obligations.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Short-term investments Short-term investments in the statement of financial position comprise cash deposits that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rate.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Allowance is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Evidence on non-recoverability may include indications that the debtor or group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or default or delinquency in repayments.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
The amount of the impairment loss is the receivable carrying amount compared to the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued iv.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost.
They represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year that are unpaid and arise when the Group becomes obligated to make future payments in respect of the purchase of those goods and services.
The amounts are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
v. Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
h Inventories Inventories which comprise drilling consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by using weighted average cost method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of transportation and other related expenses.
i Provisions A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
j Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group does not operate its own pension plan but makes pension or superannuation contributions to private funds of its employees which are defined contribution plans.
The cost of providing such benefits are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
k Employee benefits Salaries, wages, annual leave and sick leave Liabilities for salaries and wages, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled within 12 months of the reporting date are recognised in respect of employees services up to the reporting date.
They are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and are measured at the rates paid or payable.
Long service leave The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date using the projected unit credit method.
Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
l Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
m Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
The Group has leases where the Lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Such leases are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
106 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements n Interests in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities being those that significantly affect the returns of the arrangement require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint operations A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
In relation to its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its: Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly ii.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
The Groups investment in its joint venture is accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not individually tested for impairment.
The statement of profit or loss reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of the joint venture is shown on the face of the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as part of operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and NCI in the subsidiaries of joint venture.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the joint venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as Share of profit of a joint venture in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
On loss of joint control over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the joint venture upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income o Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
p Interest income Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest income is included in finance income in the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income.
q Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued r Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined with reference to the market value of the underlying shares using a pricing model appropriate to the circumstances which requires judgements as to the selection of both the valuation model and inputs.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition or a non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated on the basis of the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions with third parties, the goods or services received are measured at the date of receipt by reference to their fair value with a corresponding entry in equity.
If the Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or services received, their value is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
s Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined on an individual basis according to the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
All exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling as at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at a revalued amount in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling at the date when the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations whose functional currency is other than that of the presentation currency of the Group are translated into the presentation currency, at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Income and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
t Income taxes Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Current income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
108 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be available to allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise deferred income tax is recognised in the income statement.
u Impairment The accounting policy for the impairment of exploration and evaluation assets is described in more detail in 2.3 a and 2.4.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an intangible asset or item of property, plant & equipment may be impaired.
If any indication exists, the Group estimates the assets recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or cash-generating units CGU fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair valueindicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses of continuing operations including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued where the revaluation was taken to other comprehensive income.
In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous revaluation.
Where conditions giving rise to the impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required.
Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Exploration and Evaluation assets 2.3 a The application of the Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploration, development or asset sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
Management is also required to assess impairment in respect of exploration and evaluation assets.
The exploration and evaluation assets note discloses the carrying value of such assets.
The triggering events for impairment are defined in IFRS 6.
In making the assessment, management is required to make judgements on the status of each project and assumptions about future events and circumstances, in particular, whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
The assessments require the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, exploration potential, and reserves.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Therefore, there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will impact these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets and or CGUs.
Share-based payments 2.3 r Management is required to make assumptions and use their judgement when determining the inputs used to value share-based payment arrangements made during the year.
Details of the inputs adopted when valuing share-based payment arrangements can be found in the share-based compensation note.
Management bases these assumptions on observable market data such as the Groups share price history and risk free interest rates offered on Government bonds.
Recovery of deferred tax assets 2.3 t Judgement is required to determine whether deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate sufficient taxable profits in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These estimates are based on forecast cash flows from operations and judgement about the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise deferred tax assets could be impacted.
The Group establishes tax provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience with previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
3 Operating profit loss The Group operating profit loss from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 a Gain on farm-out Gain on farm-out note 10 671,677 b Exploration expenses Pre licence exploration costs 23,947 2,351 Inventory write down 386 Exploration expenditure written off 54,006 23,947 56,743 Provision for impairment note 10 309,835 172,360 333,782 229,103 110 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 c General & administration expenses include: Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 4,865 2,376 Share-based payment expense 6,876 9,094 11,741 11,470 d Other expenses Profit loss on disposal of assets 2 11 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 1,955 1,049 Impairment of goodwill note 11 20,868 36,297 Allowance for provision 9,000 22,821 46,357 4 Net finance expense income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Interest income on short-term bank deposits 3,630 2,410 Other interest income note 10 3,419 Net foreign currency exchange losses gains 12,910 24,669 5,861 27,079 5 Segment information The Group operates in two geographical segments located in Africa and Asia.
The Groups only reportable segment under IFRS 8 is the exploration and evaluation of oil & gas related projects in Africa.
6 Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 a Paid payable to Ernst & Young LLP Audit of the financial statements 372 350 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 39 85 Total audit services 411 435 Audit related assurance services 57 189 Corporate finance services 544 533 1,012 1,157 b Paid payable to auditor if not Ernst & Young LLP Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 5 8 Taxation services 810 4 Corporate finance services 804 Other services 3 1,619 15 2,631 1,172 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Staff costs and Directors emoluments a Staff costs Employee costs including payments to directors during the year comprised: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Salaries and wages 33,574 21,834 Social security costs 3,722 2,759 Contributions to pension plans superannuation funds 2,095 1,127 Share based payment expense note 25 6,876 9,094 46,267 34,814 b Key management The table below sets out the details of the emoluments of the Groups key management including directors: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 10,531 8,832 Social security costs 1,602 1,492 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 574 367 1 Compensation for loss of office 1,780 298 Share-based payment expense note 25 5,391 7,386 19,878 18,375 1 C ompensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of $943,366 in respect of two Directors that commenced their respective notice periods on 5 September 2014 and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
The amount represents the monthly salary payments that the Company will make in respect of the balance of the Directors unexpired notice period up to 5 September 2015.
The payments are subject to mitigation if alternative income is secured.
The amount above includes $842,376 which is unpaid at year end.
Key management emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options of $1,019,827 2013: $3,158,426.
c Directors emoluments Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 i Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 3,103 2,744 Bonuses 2,251 2,244 Social security costs 981 1,149 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 228 203 1 Compensation for loss of office 943 298 Other benefits 44 39 7,550 6,677 1 C ompensation for loss of office includes payments in lieu of notice of $943,366 in respect of two Directors that commenced their respective notice periods on 5 September 2014 and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
Directors emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options of $1,019,827 2013: $3,158,426.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 ii Share-based payment expense note 25 3,444 5,495 iii Amounts paid to director-related entities not included in i above note 30 10 Number of directors to whom superannuation or pension benefits accrued during the year 4 4 112 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements d Average number of persons employed full time equivalents Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 CEO 1 1 Exploration and technical 35 33 Commercial and support 91 58 127 92 8 Taxation a Taxation charge credit Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Current income tax: UK corporation tax 1,530 UK corporation tax adjustment in respect of prior periods 341 Foreign tax 209,259 Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior periods 809 Total current income tax charge 210,409 1,530 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 23,242 36,190 Tax charge credit in the income statement 233,651 34,660 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge credit The tax benefit not recognised in the income statement is reconciled to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.50% 2013: 23.25%.
The differences are reconciled below: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Profit loss on operations before taxation 288,493 280,467 Profit loss on operations before taxation multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 21.50% 2013: 23.25% 62,026 65,209 Non-deductible expenditure 6,132 14,517 Share-based payments 634 953 Expenditure in tax exempt jurisdictions 2,662 Effect of overseas tax rates 92,492 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 71,389 12,417 Other adjustments 172 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1,150 Total tax charge credit in the income statement 233,651 34,660 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Taxation continued c Deferred income tax Deferred income tax balances at 31 December relate to the following: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Deferred tax liabilities: Exploration and evaluation assets 38,048 Fair value adjustment in respect of exploration assets 6,000 20,806 44,048 20,806 d Unrecognised tax losses The Group has gross tax losses arising in the UK of $135,921,762 2013: $68,623,000 and Australia $7,331,000 2013: $3,400,365 that are available to carry forward indefinitely to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is not sufficient certainty that taxable income will be realised in the future due to the nature of the Groups international exploration activities and the long lead times in either developing or otherwise realising exploration assets.
e Other unrecognised temporary differences The Group has other net unrecognised temporary differences in the various African countries where we are active totalling $164,441,000 2013: $244,620,000 in respect of provisions and exploration expenditure for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
f Change in corporation tax rate Deferred tax has been calculated at the rates substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax in the year changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and a further rate change to 20% from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2013 on 2 July 2013.
Any UK deferred tax that is recognised is therefore recognised at the reduced rate of 20%.
Deferred tax in Kenya and Tanzania is provided for at the statutory rates of 30% 2013: 30%.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Earnings Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share Profit loss for the year 54,842 245,807 Less non-controlling interest 4 30 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the parent 54,846 245,777 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Number of shares Basic weighted average number of shares 577,799,351 546,885,741 There were 6,469,484 2013: 10,111,578 outstanding share options and warrants at 31 December 2014 which were dilutive 2013: anti-dilutive.
No ordinary shares of 0.25p each on exercise of options and warrants have been issued between the year end 31 December 2014 and the date of approval of these Financial Statements.
114 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements 10 Exploration and evaluation assets Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 1,296,783 961,713 1 Additions 594,340 389,076 2 Expenditure written off 54,006 3 Recovery of costs incurred on farm out of exploration interests 643,995 Balance at the end of the year 1,247,128 1,296,783 Provision for impairment Balance at the beginning of the year 172,360 4 Additional allowance 309,835 172,360 Balance at the end of the year 482,195 172,360 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year 1,124,423 961,713 Balance at the end of the year 764,933 1,124,423 1 A dditions in the year include exploration activities in: Equatorial Guinea Block R $200.8 million, Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4 $112.1 million, Gabon Gnondo Block $97.1million, Tanzania East Pande $71.0 million and Tanzania Block 7 $29.7 million.
A dditions in the prior year include exploration activities in: Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4 $266.2 million, Tanzania Block 7 $61.8 million and Equatorial Guinea Block R $16.3 million.
2 E xpenditure written off in the prior year comprise: Madagascar Marovoay Block $19.0 million, Kenya Block L15 $17.4million, Ghana Accra Block $14.3 million and Congo Marine IX Block $3.3 million.
3 R ecovery of costs incurred on farm-out of exploration interest relates to: The Groups disposal of a 20% interest $566.2 million in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4 to Pavilion Energy PTE LTD.
The transaction completed on 22 March 2014.
The Group received cash consideration of $1,250 million plus a completion adjustment of $5.3 million to reflect interest $3.4 million refer to note 4 and working capital movements $1.9 million from the effective date of the transaction of 1 January 2014.
A further $38.0 million is payable following the final investment decision in respect of the development of Blocks 1, 3 & 4, currently expected in 2016.
The total gain on disposal, after taking into account working capital adjustments and direct costs of the transaction $13.9 million, recognised for the year ended 31December 2014 was $671.7 million.
The Group also received $77.8 million relating to back costs $13.3 million and interim costs $64.5 million relating to the farm-out of the Gabonese exploration blocks refer to note 26 4 A llowance for impairment of $309.8 million comprise: Impairment loss of $107.3 million in respect of Tanzania East Pande Block.
The trigger for the impairment test was the conclusion of the Tendei-1 drilling operations which did not encounter live hydrocarbons and indicated that the carrying value of the block was not recoverable.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount of $nil was based on managements estimate of value in use: Impairment loss of $62.8 million in respect of Gabon Gnondo Block.
The trigger for the impairment test was the conclusion of the Affanga Deep-1 drilling operations which did not encounter live hydrocarbons and indicated that the carrying value of the block was not recoverable.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount of $nil was based on managements estimate of value in use: Impairment loss of $80.3 million in respect of Tanzania Block 7.
The trigger for the impairment test was the conclusion of the Mkuki-1 drilling operations which did not encounter live hydrocarbons and indicated that the carrying value of the block was not recoverable.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount of $nil was based on managements estimate of value in use: and Impairment loss of $59.4 million in respect of Kenya Block L9.
The trigger for impairment was managements assessment that no further expenditure on exploration and evaluation of hydrocarbons in the block was budgeted or planned within the current licence term.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount was based on managements estimate of value in use.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
Future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate of 10%.
Adjustments to cash flows are made to reflect the risks specific to the CGU.
Allowance for impairment of $172.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2013 comprise: Impairment loss of $167.3 million in respect of Tanzania Block 7.
The trigger for the impairment test was the conclusion of the Mlinzi Mbali-1 drilling operations which did not encounter live hydrocarbons and indicated that the carrying value of the block was not recoverable.
The cash generating unit CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount of $50 million was based on managements estimate of value in use: and Impairment loss of $5.1 million in respect of AGC Profond Block.
The CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount of $nil was based on managements estimate of value in use.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year 20,868 57,165 1 Impairment of goodwill 20,868 36,297 Balance at the end of the year 20,868 1 A g oodwill impairment loss of $20.9 million 2013: $36.3 million was recognised in respect of Kenya Block L9 2013: Tanzania Block 7.
The impairment loss was primarily driven by the impairment review of the Blocks CGUs which resulted in impairment losses in the current and prior years, reducing the carrying values of the Blocks refer to note 10.
The goodwill balance was largely the result of recognising a deferred tax liability on the fair value uplifts of assets acquired through the Dominion acquisition.
Allocation of goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to a CGU or groups of CGUs no larger than the reportable segment which are expected to benefit from the related acquisition.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group off assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
This is usually considered a single operation or in some cases a number of operations that are in close geographic proximity or share operational efficiencies.
The carrying values of goodwill by CGU are asfollows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Kenya Block L9 62 62 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquisition assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Kenya Block L9 20,806 Deferred tax liability 20,806 Balance at the end of the year 20,868 Impairment test for goodwill The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis at reporting date.
The most recent test was carried out at 1December 2014.
In determining whether goodwill is impaired the Group reviewed the status of projects including recent farm-out transactions and whether the Groups intention is to further develop the Groups various assets.
The Group recognised an impairment expense of $20.9 million 2013: $36.3 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 refer to note 3 d and note 10.
116 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements 12 Property, plant and equipment Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Office furniture and equipment Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 5,786 6,497 Foreign currency translation 766 772 Additions 4,770 2,016 Disposals 44 1,955 Balance at the end of the year 11,278 5,786 Depreciation Balance at the beginning of the year 2,549 4,050 Foreign currency translation 511 609 Depreciation charge for the year 1,955 1,049 Disposals 44 1,941 Balance at the end of the year 4,971 2,549 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year 3,237 2,447 Balance at the end of the year 6,307 3,237 13 Financial assets Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Non-current Security deposits Rental properties 3,646 3,347 1 Security deposits Exploration commitments 13,458 1,426 17,104 4,773 1 Floating interest deposits pledged to third parties or banks as security in relation to the Groups exploration commitments.
There are no receivables that are past due or impaired.
14 Inventory Year Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Drilling consumables 23,902 25,890 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Trade and other receivables Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Trade and other debtors 10,056 6,544 Prepayments 2,783 1,692 12,839 8,236 All debtors are current.
Trade and other debtors primarily relate to receivables from joint operations.
Due to the short-term nature of these receivables, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value.
16 Cash and cash equivalents Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Cash 138,603 326,764 Short-term deposits 739,269 179,998 877,872 506,762 Cash at banks earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is $877.9 million 2013: $506.8 million.
17 Investments Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Short-term investments 294,904 159,921 Short-term investments consist of cash deposit accounts that are made for varying periods of between three months and twelve months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rates.
The fair value of short-term investments is $294.9 million 2013: $159.9 million.
18 Trade and other payables Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Trade payables 3,004 3,784 Accruals 221,681 8,711 Payables in relation to joint operation partners 17,463 108,292 242,148 120,787 Trade payables are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
118 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements 19 Provisions Employee Litigation and Other Employee long annual leave other claims provision service leave Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At 1 January 2014 Current 671 24,700 10,000 35,371 Non-current 237 237 Arising during the year 29 1,650 47 1,726 Utilised paid 10,000 10,000 Foreign exchange revaluation 36 21 57 Amounts released 227 227 At 31 December 2014 Current 437 26,350 26,787 Non-current 263 263 Employee annual leave and employee long service leave These provisions are made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benefits and as such there is an inherent uncertainty as to the timing of the relevant outflows required by the provisions.
Litigation and other claims Litigation and other claims consist of separate legal matters, including claims arising from trading activities, in various Group companies and at various stages of negotiation.
The majority of any cash outflow from these matters is expected to occur within the next 12 months, although this is dependent on the development of the various legal claims.
In the Directors opinion, after taking appropriate legal advice, the amounts provided at 31 December 2014 represent the best estimate of the expected loss.
Other provision Other provision consisted of an amount representing the unavoidable, least net cost of exiting a contract.
The provision was settled in full during the year.
20 Financial instruments Capital management Capital consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
The Group met its primary capital management objective of ensuring that it has sufficient funds to carry out its exploration activities and safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares for cash, engage in active portfolio management, or other such restructuring activities as appropriate.
No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Financial risk management The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise trade and other receivables note 15, cash and cash equivalents note 16, short-term investments note 17 and trade and other payables note 18, which arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short-term cash flow and provide finance for the Groups operations.
Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to these financial statements.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of financial risk and the Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee to assist in the identification and evaluation of significant financial risks.
Where appropriate, consultation is sought with an external advisor to determine the appropriate response to identified risks.
The Group does not trade in derivatives for speculative purposes.
The main risks that could adversely affect the Groups financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued a Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a third party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of third parties is the aggregate of the carrying value of its security deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and trade and other receivables.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and as such collateral is not requested nor is it the Groups policy to securitise its trade and other receivables.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups experience of bad debts has not been significant.
No impairment loss has been recognised at the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Credit quality of financial assets 1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 A-2 A-2 No default and above and above and below customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2014 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 877,776 47 49 877,872 Investments 294,904 294,904 Trade and other receivables 23,626 23,626 1,172,680 47 23,675 1,196,402 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 13,458 3,288 358 17,104 13,458 3,288 358 17,104 1 T he equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial assetitself.
1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 A-2 A-2 No default and above and above and below customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2013 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 506,618 144 506,762 Investments 159,921 159,921 Trade and other receivables 8,236 8,236 666,539 8,380 674,919 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 3,342 1,426 5 4,773 3,342 1,426 5 4,773 1 T he equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
Credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is managed by limiting the term of deposits to periods of less than twelve months and selecting counterparty financial institutions with reference to long and short-term credit ratings published by Standard & Poors.
120 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Fair values The maximum exposure to credit risk is the fair value of security deposits and receivables.
Collateral is not held as security.
The fair values and carrying values of non-current receivables of the Group are as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $000 $000 $000 $000 Security deposits 17,104 16,899 4,773 4,550 17,104 16,899 4,773 4,550 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted at a rate reflecting current market rates adjusted for counter party credit risk.
The fair values of all other financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values.
b Interest rate risk As of 31 December 2014, the Group has no borrowings 2013: nil so interest rate risk is limited to interest receivable on deposits and bankbalances.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rate relates primarily to the Groups cash assets held in short-term cash deposits.
The Board monitors its cash balance on an ongoing basis and liaises with its financiers regularly to mitigate the risk of a fluctuating interest rate.
The benchmark rate used for short-term deposits is US LIBOR.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Financial assets Security deposits 17,104 4,773 Cash and cash equivalents 877,872 506,762 Investments 294,904 159,921 Net exposure 1,189,880 671,456 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit loss before tax through the impact on floating rate deposits and cash equivalent.
The analysis below reflects a reasonably possible change in interest rates compared to 2013.
Effect on profit Effect on loss 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Increase decrease in interest rate $000 $000 0.5% 5,949 3,357 -0.5% 5,949 3,357 The sensitivity in 2014 was maintained at 0.5% as interest rate volatilities remain similar to those in the prior period.
c Foreign currency risk The Group has currency exposures arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and transactions executed in currencies other than the respective functional currencies.
The Group, with the exception of Ophir Services Pty Ltd, have adopted US Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies as this represents the currency of their primary economic environment as the majority of the Groups funding and expenditure is US Dollars.
Ophir Services Pty Ltd has adopted the Australian Dollar as its functional currency.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is managed by holding the majority of its funds in US Dollars, as a natural hedge, with remaining funds being held in Pounds Sterling GBP, Australian Dollars AUD, Euros EUR, Tanzanian Shillings TZS and CFA Franc BEAC XAF to meet commitments in those currencies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued As at 31 December 2014, the Groups predominant exposure to foreign exchange rates related to cash and cash equivalents held in Pounds Sterling by companies with US Dollar functional currencies.
At the statement of financial position date, the Group had the following exposure to GBP, XAF, TZS, EUR and AUD foreign currency that is not designated in cash flow hedges: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents AUD 3,858 412 EUR 82 293 GBP 73,839 138,719 TZS 308 96 XAF 626 780 78,713 140,300 Investments GBP 69,904 109,921 Security deposits GBP 3,642 3,095 152,259 253,316 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables AUD 663 661 EUR 277 GBP 6,210 5,207 7,150 5,868 Net Exposure 145,109 247,448 The below table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable possible changes in GBP, XAF, TZS, EUR and AUD against the US Dollar exchange rates with all other variables held constant, of the Groups loss before tax and equity due to the foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities.
Loss before tax Equity Higher lower Higher lower 2014 2013 2014 2013 $000 $000 $000 $000 US Dollar to GBP 5% 2013: 5% 7,059 12,172 US Dollar to GBP -5% 2013: -5% 7,059 12,172 US Dollar to AUD 5% 2013: 5% 160 12 89 70 US Dollar to AUD -5% 2013: -5% 160 12 89 70 US Dollar to EUR 5% 2013: 5% 10 15 US Dollar to EUR -5% 2013: -5% 10 15 US Dollar to XAF 5% 2013: 5% 31 39 US Dollar to XAF -5% 2013: -5% 31 39 US Dollar to TZS 5% 2013: 5% 15 5 US Dollar to TZS -5% 2013: -5% 15 5 122 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Significant assumptions used in the foreign currency exposure sensitivity analysis include: Reasonably possible movements in foreign exchange rates were determined based on a review of the last two years historical movements and economic forecasters expectations.
The reasonably possible movement was calculated by taking the US Dollar spot rate as at balance date, moving this spot rate by the reasonably possible movements and then re-converting the US Dollar into the respective foreign currency with the new spot rate.
This methodology reflects the translation methodology undertaken by the Group.
d Liquidity risk The Group has a liquidity risk arising from its ability to fund its liabilities and exploration commitments.
This risk is managed by ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet those commitments by monitoring the expected total cash inflows and outflows on a continuous basis.
The Group uses its cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments to manage liquidity risk.
All of the Groups trade creditors and other payables note 19 are payable in less than six months.
The Group did not make use of derivative instruments during the year or during the prior year.
e Disclosure of fair values The carrying value of security deposits and financial liabilities disclosed in the financial statements as at 31 December 2014 approximate their fair value.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1 q uoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 o ther techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3 t echniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 16,899 4,550 16,899 4,550 There were no transfers between fair value levels during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Share capital Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 a Authorised 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 7,963 7,963 b Called up, allotted and fully paid 591,961,422 ordinary shares of 0.25p each in issue at the beginning of the year 2013: 400,004,189 2,466 1,739 1,849,373 ordinary shares of 0.25p each issued on exercise of share options during the year 2013: 4,081,558 8 16 1 Nil ordinary shares of 0.25p each issued during the year 2013: 187,875,675 711 593,810,795 ordinary shares of 0.25p each in issue at the end of the year 2013: 591,961,422 2,474 2,466 1 1 9,850,000 ordinary shares issued in relation to the placement announced by the Company on 4 March 2014 and subsequently issued on 5 March 2014.
The market value of the Companies shares on these dates were: 4.62 $6.94 and 5.13 $7.72 respectively.
1 68,025,675 ordinary shares issued in relation to the 2 for 5 rights issue announced by the Company on 4 March 2014 and subsequently issued on 26 March 2014.
The market value of the Companies shares on these dates were: 4.62 $6.94 and 4.71 $7.17 respectively.
The balances classified as called up: allotted and fully paid share capital represents the nominal value of the total number of issued shares of the Company of 0.25p each.
Fully paid shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
22 Treasury shares Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Nil ordinary shares of 0.25p each held by the Group as treasury shares at the beginning of the year 2013: nil 15,522,066 ordinary shares of 0.25p each acquired during the year 2013: nil 62 611,952 ordinary shares of 0.25p each disposed of on exercise of share options during the year 2013: nil 3 14,910,114 ordinary shares of 0.25p each held by the Group as treasury shares at the end of the year 2013: nil 59 Treasury shares represents the cost of shares in the Group purchased in the market and held by the Group to satisfy options under the Groups employee incentive share option plans refer to note 25.
On 14 August 2014, the Company announced that the Board had approved a share buyback programme of up to $100 million of ordinary shares the Programme.
During the year, the Group repurchased shares under the Programme for a total consideration of $44.2 million, including costs of $0.3 million.
The remaining facility as at 31 December 2014 was $56.1 million.
23 Reserves Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 $000 $000 Treasury shares note 22 59 Other reserves note 24 1,695,904 1,674,719 1,695,845 1,674,719 1 Non-controlling interest 280 276 1,695,565 1,674,443 1 The non-controlling interest relates to Dominion Uganda Ltd, where the Group acquired a 95% shareholding during 2012.
124 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements 24 Other reserves Equity component Foreign AccumCapital Options Consolidon currency ulated 2 3 4 5 6 8 Share redemption premium Special ation Merger convertible translation profits Total other 1 7 premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve bond reserve losses reserves $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 As at 1 January 2013 798,256 34,244 156,435 500 415,722 669 5,852 307,721 1,102,957 Loss for the period, net oftax 245,777 245,777 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax 1,396 1,396 Total comprehensive loss, net of tax 1,396 245,777 247,173 New ordinary shares issued to third parties 802,517 802,517 Exercise of options 7,324 7,324 Share-based payment 9,094 9,094 6 Transfers within reserves 156,435 156,435 As at 1 January 2014 805,580 43,338 500 1,218,239 669 4,456 397,063 1,674,719 Profit for the period, net oftax 54,846 54,846 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 1,784 1,784 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 1,784 54,846 56,630 Purchase of own shares 62 44,230 44,168 Exercise of options 1,847 1,847 Share-based payment 6,876 6,876 6 Transfers within reserves 876,447 876,447 As at 31 December 2014 807,427 62 50,214 500 341,792 669 6,240 490,000 1,695,904 1 T he share premium account represents the total net proceeds on issue of the Companys shares in excess of their nominal value of 0.25p per share less amounts transferred to any other reserves.
2 The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares transferred following the Companys purchase of them.
3 The option premium reserve represents the cost of share-based payments to Directors, employees and third parties.
4 T he special reserve was created on reduction of the Companys share capital on 26 July 2007.
Following the Companys subsequent recording of increase in paid up share capital the special reserve has been realised and transferred to accumulated losses.
5 T he consolidation reserve represents a premium on acquisition of a minority interest in a controlled entity.
6 I n the prior year the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief s612 and s613 were applied to the March 2013 share placement and rights issue raising performed through a cash box structure.
The cash box method of affecting an issue of shares for cash is commonplace and enabled the Company to issue shares without giving rise to a share premium.
The premium on shares issued, net of applicable transaction costs of $34.5 million, as part of the cash box arrangement is instead recognised in the Merger Reserve.
Following on from the completion of the Groups farm out of 20% of its interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4 in March 2014 Ophir Ventures Jersey Limited and Ophir Ventures Jersey No.
2 Limited, which are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, redeemed the preference shares that had been acquired by the Company as part of the cash box arrangement.
This has allowed the Company to realise $876.4 million of the Merger Reserve to accumulated profits losses as the redemption of the preference shares was considered to be performed with qualifying consideration in the form of free cash and a readily recoverable receivable from Ophir Holdings Limited, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company and beneficial holder of the Groups interest in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 & 4.
7 T his balance represents the equity component of the convertible bond, net of costs and tax as a result of the separation of the instrument into its debt and equity components.
The bond was converted into 21,661,476 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on 21 May 2008.
8 T he foreign currency translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional currency other than US Dollars.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Share-based compensation a Employee incentive share option plans Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme was established on 12 May 2004 shortly after the formation of the Company to attract new employees on start up.
The plan provided for a total of 1,450,000 options to acquire ordinary shares at 1p per share to be issued to eligible employees.
The Scheme was terminated on 24 November 2005 and all options issued under the scheme have fully vested.
Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan On 5 April 2006 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Company Limited 2006 Share Option Plan.
Any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Director of the Company or any subsidiary who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time to his duties is eligible to participate under the Plan.
At the grant date the Board of Directors determine the vesting terms, if any, subject to the proviso that no more than one half of the options become exercisable on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant and any performance conditions are satisfied.
Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan On 26 May 2011 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan.
This was introduced to give awards to Directors and senior management subject to outperforming a comparator group of similarly focused oil and gas exploration companies in terms of shareholder return over a three year period.
The Plan awards a number of shares to Directors and senior management based on a multiple of salary.
However, these shares only vest after a three year period and the full award is made only if Ophir has performed in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies.
Ophir Energy plc 2012 Deferred Share Plan On 19 June 2012 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy plc Deferred Share Plan 2012 DSP.
The plan was introduced to provide executive management with a means of retaining and incentivising employees.
The structure of the DSP will enable a portion of participants annual bonuses to be deferred into options to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
All options issued to date vest after a three year period.
The DSP operates in conjunction with the Ophir Energy plc Employee Benefit Trust.
The Trust will hold ordinary shares in the Company for the benefit of its employees and former employees, which may then be used, on a discretionary basis, to settle the DSP Awards as and when they are exercised.
No shares have been acquired by the Trust.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the period for the above schemes.
These are denominated in Pounds Sterling and have been translated to US Dollars using the closing exchange rate for presentation purposes.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding options beginning of year 10,111,578 $1.50 0.96 11,131,204 $2.21 1.40 1 Granted during the year 2,052,911 $0.30 0.19 3,453,199 $2.02 1.29 Exercised during the year 2,461,325 $0.71 0.46 4,081,558 $1.78 1.14 Expired during the year 1,501,851 $3.06 1.97 391,267 $0.00 0.00 Outstanding options at end of year 8,201,313 $1.39 0.90 10,111,578 $1.50 0.96 Exercisable at end of year 3,885,282 $3.28 2.11 4,002,826 $3.63 2.32 1 A wards granted under employee incentive share option plans before 25 March 2014 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 and the exercise price reduced by the same factor to ensure that award holders would not be disadvantaged vis--vis shareholders as a result of the rights issue in March 2013.
Options granted during the year include additional Long Term Incentive awards and 2006 Share Option awards of 1,725,972 in respect of this adjustment.
126 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements The weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year was $0.30 2013: $2.02.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was $0.00 to $8.55 2013: $0.00 to $8.61 with a remaining exercise period in the range of 3 to 9 years.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The table below lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31December 2014.
2006 Share Option Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 Deferred Share Plan 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Dividend yield % Exercise Price $4.29 2.60 $7.18 4.72 nil nil nil nil Share Volatility % 50% 50% 41% 45% 50% 50% Risk-free interest rate % 1% 1% 0.94% 0.40% 1% 1% Expected life of option years 210 210 05 05 13 13 Weighted average share price $4.06 2.46 $7.17 4.71 $4.06 2.46 $6.08 3.97 $4.06 2.46 $7.17 4.71 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not be the actual outcome.
b Share-based payments to directors During the year a total of 552,522 2013: 501,182 nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares were granted to directors under the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Plan.
In addition, options granted under the plan before 25 March 2013 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 and the exercise price reduced by the same factor to ensure that award holders would not be disadvantaged vis--vis shareholders as a result of the rights issue in March 2013.
435,344 additional options were granted under the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Plan in respect of thisadjustment.
During the year no options were granted to directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan.
In the prior year 360,127 options at a weighted average price of 4.72 $7.38 to acquire ordinary shares were granted to directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan.
101,612 additional options were granted under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan in respect of this adjustment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Joint operations The Group has the following interests in joint operations: Beneficial Beneficial interest interest 2014 2013 Asset % % 1 AGC Profond 79.2 Equatorial Guinea Operator Block R 80 80 2 Gabon Operator Mbeli 40 50 2 Gabon Operator Ntsina 40 50 2 Gabon Operator Manga 70 100 2 Gabon Operator Gnondo 70 100 2 Gabon Operator Nkouere 100 2 Gabon Operator Nkawa 100 3 Ghana Accra 20 4 Kenya Operator Block L9 90 90 4 Kenya Block L15 90 5 Myanmar Operator Block AD-03 95 6 SADR Daora 50 6 SADR Haouza 50 6 SADR Mahbes 50 6 SADR Mijek 50 7 Seychelles Operator Block 5B 1 75 7 Seychelles Operator Block 5B 2 75 7 Seychelles Operator Block 5B 3 75 8 Somaliland Berbera 25 25 9 Tanzania Block 1 20 40 9 Tanzania Block 3 20 40 9 Tanzania Block 4 20 40 10 Tanzania Operator Block 7 80 80 11 Tanzania Operator East Pande 70 70 12 Uganda EA4B 95 1 L Entreprise AGC S. A. Entreprise has a 12% carried participating interest, with an option to increase such participating interest by a maximum of 5% in return for the reimbursement of 5% of the costs expended on petroleum operations prior to such date and is carried through the exploration and appraisal phases.
Such interest would be acquired from the other parties on a pro rata basis.
Noble Energy and Rocksource assigned their respective participating interests to Ophir Profond on 31 December 2012.
The assignment was approved by the AGC on 22 May 2013.
Following the approval, Ophirs participating interest increased from 44.2% to 79.2%.
T he final exploration period for the block the second renewal period which carried one commitment well expired on 18 September 2014 and the PSC terminated.
No viable explorations targets had been identified within the Block and the partners paid a financial penalty as required under the PSC.
2 T he Government of Gabon has the option to participate in the petroleum operations through a 10% participating interest in Mbeli Marin, Ntsina Marin and Gnondo Marin: and a 15% participating interest in Manga Marin.
Such interest would be acquired from the joint venture parties on a pro rata basis.
Farm out arrangement O n 18 December 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into a comprehensive farm out agreement with OMV Exploration & Production GmbH OMV covering its deepwater offshore blocks in Gabon.
U nder the terms of the agreement, OMV acquired 30% non-operated interests in the Manga and Gnondo Blocks and 10% non-operated interests in the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
The transaction completed on 16 July 2014.
Acquisition O n 24 October 2014, the Group announced the signing of exploration and production sharing contracts for two additional blocks.
The new blocks, A3 and A4, are located outboard of the Groups existing acreage in the North Gabon basin.
Block A3 will be called the Nkouere PSC and Block A4 the Nkawa PSC.
T he Gabonese State has the right to acquire a 20% interest in the newly awarded Nkouere and Nkawa PSCs on commencement of production.
The Gabon National Oil Company also has the right to acquire up to an additional 15% interest at market rates.
3 O n 19 March 2014, the JV Partners entered into an assignment deed the Assignment Deed to transfer i the entire Participating Interests of Ophir Ghana Accra Limited, Tap Oil Ghana Limited and Vitol Upstream Accra Limited under the Petroleum Agreement and the Operating Agreement to Afex Oil Ghana Limited and Azonto Petroleum Ghana Limited in the proportions set out in the Assignment Deed: and ii operatorship under the Petroleum Agreement and the Operating Agreement from Ophir Ghana Accra Limited to Azonto Petroleum Ghana Limited.
The transfers of Participating Interests and operatorship were effective from 13November 2014 4 T he Group currently has a 90% participating interest with the Government of Kenya having a 10% carried interest.
On 19 December 2013, the Group formally notified the Ministry of Energy & Petroleum that it had elected not to enter the next Exploration Phase of the Block L15 PSC.
The minimum obligations for the initial exploration period had been fulfilled and the Group withdrew from the block on 3 January 2014.
5 O n 5 December 2014, the Group announced that it had signed a Production Sharing Contract with the Myanmar Ministry of Energy for a 95% operated interest in Block AD-03 offshore Myanmar.
6 On 25 November 2014, the Group sold its interests in the SADR blocks: Daora, Haouza, Mahbes and Mijek to Calima Energy Limited.
7 O n 4 March 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement with WHL Energy WHL, an Australian listed E&P company, to acquire a 75% operated interest in Blocks 5B 1, 5B 2 and 5B 3 located offshore to the south of the Seychelles Islands in the Indian Ocean.
128 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements 8 T he Government of Somaliland has a 10% back in right, exercisable within 60 days of a commercial discovery.
Farm-out arrangement I n the prior year, the Group reduced its participating interest from 75% to 25% by entering into a farm-out arrangement with RAK Gas LLC for a 50% participating interest and operatorship in the Berbera Blocks SL9 and SL12, in return for a carry of Ophirs remaining 25% share in a planned seismic programme.
Sale of interest in Berbera PSC On 13 January 2015, the Group sold its remaining 25% interest in the Berbera Blocks SL9 and SL12 to Independent Energy Capital Corp. 9 T he Tanzanian Petroleum Development Corporation TPDC has a 12% back in right in each of Blocks 1, 3 and 4 and a further 3 % back in right in each of Blocks 3 and 4 following a declaration of commerciality.
Farm-out arrangement O n 14 November 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell a 20 percent interest in Tanzanian Blocks 1, 3 & 4 to Pavilion Energy.
The sale was approved by Ophirs shareholders on 16 December 2013 and the transaction completed on 22 March 2014.
T he First Extension Period for Block 3 and 4 expired in October 2014.
In August 2014, BG elected not to continue into the Second Extension period of Block 3.
Under the terms of the licence and the Joint Operating Agreement, Ophir and Pavilion Energy have made an application to enter the final term.
Ophir will operate the block with a 80% interest.
Application is subject to Government approval.
10 The TPDC has a 15% back in right in Block 7.
11 T he TPDC has a 20% back in right the East Pande Block exercisable any time after approval of a development licence.
12 D uring 2012, the Group formally applied to the Ugandan government to withdraw from Block E4AB and the PSA was terminated on 23 August 2012.
The process of withdrawing from Uganda is on-going and subject to the Group meeting certain commitments which are near completion.
Ophir has no office or employees in country.
Capital commitments relating to these projects are included in note 28.
There are no contingent liabilities associated with these projects.
Refer to note 2.3 n for the Groups accounting policy for jointly controlled assets and liabilities.
27 Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2014 the Group was committed to making the following future minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases over land and buildings with the following lease termination dates: Year ended Year ended 2014 2013 $000 $000 Due within one 1 year 1,877 2,029 Due later than one 1 year but within five 5 years 8,982 9,956 Due later than two 2 years but within five 5 years 4,792 6,810 15,651 18,795 28 Capital commitments Exploration In acquiring its oil and gas interests the Group has pledged that various work programmes will be undertaken on each permit interest.
The exploration commitments below are an estimate of the net cost to the Group of performing these work programmes.
Year ended Year ended 2014 2013 $000 $000 Due within one 1 year 63,328 516,134 Due later than one 1 year but within two 2 years 28,600 40,877 Due later than two 2 years but within five 5 years 6,630 47,837 98,558 604,848 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Contingent liabilities An individual has commenced action against the Group relating to a number of terminated consultancy agreements.
Interim hearings in relation to security for costs applications were scheduled to be heard on 12 February and 23 February 2015 but were deferred to another date to be determined.
A trial date has not been set and therefore it is not practicable to state the timing of any payment.
The Group has taken the view that the action is without merit and accordingly has estimated that no liability will arise as a result of proceedings and no provision for any liability has been made in these financial statements.
30 Related party disclosures a Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries refer to note 6 of the Company financial statements, joint ventures refer to note 18 and note 26 and its Directors and companies associated with its Directors identified in the paragraph b below.
Recharges from the Company to subsidiaries in the year were $25,872,984 2013: $7,537,080.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
b Other transactions with key management personnel The Company made payments of $nil 2013: $10,311 to Vectis Petroleum Limited, a company associated with John Lander, for the provision of his service as a Non-Executive director.
Compensation of key management personnel including directors is disclosed in note 7 b.
31 Events after the reporting period On 3 March 2015 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Salamander Energy Plc Salamander, a South East Asian focused independent exploration and production company quoted on the LSE.
The Group announced that the scheme of arrangement was approved by Salamanders shareholders on 6 February 2015 and was sanctioned by the Supreme Court in London effective on 2 March 2015.
The transaction has therefore closed and the entire issued ordinary share capital of Salamander is now owned by Ophir.
The consideration of $326.1 million was satisfied in full by equity by which Salamander shareholders received 0.5719 Ophir ordinary share for each Salamander ordinary share held.
The enlarged Group enhances Ophirs operating capabilities in both Africa and South East Asia and deepwater expertise across key technical and commercial functions.
The combined Group provides shareholders with a diversified exposure to 21 production, development and exploration blocks in Africa and South East Asia.
The acquisition will be accounted for as a single business combination.
The fair value assessment of the Salamander identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as at the date of acquisition have been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Details of the Group accounting policies in relation to business combinations are contained in note 2.3 c. The fair values of the assets acquired have been calculated using valuation techniques based on discounted cash flows using forward curve commodity prices, a discount rate based on market observable data and cost and production profiles.
130 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Fair value Recognised 3 March 2015 $000 Assets Exploration & evaluation assets 150,000 Property, plant & equipment 877,000 Financial assets 58,054 Investments accounted for using the equity method 228,000 Inventory 51,228 Trade and other receivables 25,033 Cash and cash equivalents 113,133 1,502,448 Liabilities Trade and other payables 95,857 Current tax liability 75,436 Bank borrowings 303,858 Convertible bonds 91,897 Bonds payable 145,596 Provisions 52,614 Deferred tax liability 530,559 1,295,817 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 206,631 Goodwill arising on acquisition 119,500 326,131 Consideration: Equity instruments 152,208,612 ordinary shares of parent company 326,131 Total consideration transferred 326,131 The Group issued 152,208,612 new shares in consideration for the entire share capital of Salamander.
The fair value of the shares is the published price of the shares of the Group at the acquisition date.
Therefore, the fair value of the share consideration given is $326.1 million.
The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities, as specified in IFRS 3 and IAS 12 and is calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of the trade receivables amounts to $25.0 million.
The gross amount of trade receivables is $25.0 million.
However, none of the trade receivables have been impaired and it is expected that the full amounts can be collected.
The fair values disclosed are provisional due to the timing and complexity of the acquisition.
The Group is continuing to refine the fair value of assets and liabilities identified as part of the acquisition.
The review of the fair value of the assets and the liabilities acquired will continue for 12 months from the acquisition date at the latest.
