com Accounting Policies Oxford Instruments plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 115 to 121.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group Financial Statements.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Performance and Strategy section on pages 5 to 20.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 23.
The relatively diverse nature of the Group together with its current financial strength provides a solid foundation.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and flexed them to incorporate a number of potential scenarios relating to changes in trading performance and believe that the Group will be able to operate within its existing debt facilities which expire between December 2018 and March 2021.
This review also considered hedging arrangements in place.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis based on the Directors opinion, after making reasonable enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Financial Statements were authorised for issuance on 10 June 2014. a New accounting standards The following standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and have been adopted as they are mandatory for the year ended 31March 2014.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income: The amendments require that an entity present separately theitems of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from those that would never be reclassified toprofit or loss.
The adoption of this standard has had no significant impact.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: The amendments require immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income and eliminate the corridor method.
The principal amendment that has affected most entities with a defined benefit plan is the requirement to calculate net interest income or expense using the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation.
Thenew standard requires retrospective application and will impact the Groups Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income as a result of the changes in assessing the return on pension scheme assets.
A prior year restatement has been made to reflect these changes, which is explained in further detail below.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: This is a new standard to replace existing guidance on fair value measurement in different IFRSs with a single definition of fair value, a framework for measuring fair values and disclosures about fair value measurements.
This standard applies to assets, liabilities and an entitys own equity instruments that, under other IFRSs, are required or permitted to be measured at fair value or when disclosure of fair value is provided.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, i. e. an exit price.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: The amendment requires specific disclosure for financial assets and financial liabilities within the scope of the common disclosures.
There are no other new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations mandatory for the first time for the year ending 31 March 2014.
IAS 19 restatement As a result of the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to determining the income or expense related to its defined benefit pension scheme.
The standard prescribes that an interest expense or income is calculated on the net defined benefit liability by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
This replaces the interest expense on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets.
In addition, the revised standard clarifies the treatment for scheme administration expenses.
The revised standard requires retrospective application, therefore the table below reflects the adjustments made to the comparative amounts for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The restatements in the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise the reversal of the interest expense on the defined benefit obligation of 10.4m andthe interest income on pension scheme assets of 9.5m to be replaced by a net interest expense of 1.7m and an increase in the scheme administration expenses charged to the consolidated income statement of 0.4m.
The associated income tax has been restated accordingly.
Actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income of 16.9m have been restated into a remeasurement loss of15.7m with the associated income tax also restated.
70 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information a New accounting standards continued IAS 19 restatement continued 31 March 2013 m Consolidated income statement Increase in administrative and shared service expenses 0.4 Decrease in finance expense 8.7 Decrease in finance income 9.5 Decrease in income tax expense 0.2 Decrease in profit for the period 1.0 Decrease in basic and diluted earnings per share 1.8p Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Other comprehensive income: Decrease in remeasurement of defined benefit plans 1.2 Decrease in income tax on other comprehensive income 0.2 Increase in other comprehensive income 1.0 The revised standard stipulates that remeasurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in the periods in which they occur.
The Group already adopted this policy and therefore there are no changes to the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash flow statement.
In the current year, the revised standard has had the effect of reducing the Groups profit after tax by 2.0m and reducing the remeasurement loss on post-retirement benefits by the same amount.
b Basis of preparation The Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest 0.1m and are prepared on the historical cost basis except as described on page 73 under the heading Financial Instruments.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The most significant judgements and estimates made in applying the Group accounting policies relate to: Fair value measurements on business combinations The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The key judgements involved are the identification and valuation of intangible assets which require the estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate see Note 15.
Impairment of intangible assets including goodwill and tangible assets Goodwill is held at cost and tested annually for impairment and amortised intangibles and tangible assets are tested for impairment where there are indications of impairment.
These impairment tests require the Group to make an estimate of the expected cash flows and to select suitable discount rates.
These require an estimation of the value in use of these assets see Note 15.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past expectations orevents which can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which can be subject to change.
Amounts provided represent the Groups best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 71 www.
com Accounting Policies continued b Basis of preparation continued Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when, in the opinion of the Group, the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer.
Thecomplex technical nature of the Groups products means that the application of judgement is required in determining whether those risksandrewards have passed.
The following other significant judgements and estimates were made in applying the Group accounting policies: Measurement of defined benefit scheme liabilities The Group recognises and measures costs relating to defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In applying IAS 19 the costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
This requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, expected returns on plan assets and the selection of suitable discount rates.
Further detail is provided in Note 23.
Contingent purchase consideration Contingent purchase consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and tested annually against the criteria for payment.
The key judgements involved are the estimation of future cash flows and profitability of the acquired business and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
Capitalised development costs Capitalised development costs involve judgements around the future economic benefits that will flow from the associated development activity and in particular the Groups assessment of the technical and commercial feasibility of the product to be developed.
Deferred tax assets A deferred tax asset is recognised in the period if it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
This requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the estimation of future taxable profit.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key areas where estimates have been used andassumptions applied are in the calculation of provisions, the valuation of acquired intangible assets, the impairment testing of goodwill and the estimation of defined benefit pension plan liabilities.
c Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements include the accounts of Oxford Instruments plc and its subsidiary companies adjusted to eliminate intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the control, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of subsidiary companies are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the end of the reporting period.
Income statements and cash flows of foreign operations are translated into Sterling ataverage quarterly exchange rates which approximate foreign exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arisingon retranslation are recognised directly in a separate translation reserve.
The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
d Foreign currency An individual entitys transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
72 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information e Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i Derivative financial instruments of the Group are used to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and commodity pricing risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Derivatives comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options and metal futures contracts are classified as fair value through profit and loss under IAS 39, unless designated as hedges.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value and gains or losses on the settlement of such derivatives are recognised in operating expenses.
Where such derivatives relate to the following years exposure, any gains or losses resulting from the change in fair value are taken to the mark to market gains losses line within financial income or expense.
ii Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Ifthe hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting isdiscontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it isrecognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
iii The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes.
Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.
iv The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their market price at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date, being the present value of the forward price.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
v Contingent purchase consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and tested annually against the criteria for payment.
vi Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment see accounting policy l and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
Depreciation is provided based on historical cost less estimated residual value.
The principal estimated economic lives used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings, long leasehold land and buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements less than 50 years duration Period of lease Furniture and fittings 10 years Machinery and other equipment 5 to 10 years Computer equipment 4 years Vehicles 4 years Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognised in the Income Statement.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 73 www.
com Accounting Policies continued g Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 31 March 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on thebasis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP.
The Group now expenses transaction costs associated with its acquisitions and movements in liabilities relating to contingent consideration withinthe Income Statement in conformity with the revised IFRS 3.
The carrying value of contingent consideration is reassessed annually.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and allocated to cash generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination.
It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy l, or more frequently when there is an indicator that the unit may be impaired.
ii Development costs Research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income in the year in which they are incurred unless development expenditure is applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products, in which case they are capitalised.
The criteria for capitalisation include demonstration of the technical feasibility of completing a new intangible asset that will be available for sale and that theasset will generate probable future economic benefits.
Where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over their useful economic lives.
iii Acquired intangible assets An intangible asset acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be reliably measured.
The asset is amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Income over it useful economic life.
iv Amortisation Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income on a systematic basis in proportion to the use of the assets over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Capitalised development costs 3 to 5 years Technology related acquired intangibles 5 to 12 years Customer related acquired intangibles 6 months to 15 years Software 10 years h Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently stated at their amortised cost less appropriate allowances for amounts which are expected to be non-recoverable.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes materials, direct labour, an attributable proportion of production overheads based on normal operating capacity and all other expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective stock where appropriate in light of recent usage, expected future requirements, new product introduction plans and likely realisable values.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits and are carried at amortised cost.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows.
74 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information k Non-current assets held for sale A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measurement of the assets is brought up-to-date in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income, even when the asset has previously been revalued.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
l Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review.
For the purposes of impairment testing assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash flows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income as under the administration and shared services heading, to the extent that an assets carrying value, or a cash generating units carrying value, exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of its net realisable value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had the impairment loss not been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit.
m Employee benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans which require contributions to be made to independent trustee administered funds.
i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that current and past employees have earned in return for their service in prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses in calculating the Groups net obligation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year.
The charge to the Consolidated Statement of Income reflects the current service cost.
The interest expense or income is calculated on the net defined benefit liability by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability, and is included within financial expenditure or financial income in the Consolidated Statement of Income respectively.
iii Share-based payment transactions The fair value of equity settled share option programmes is measured at grant date and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Income, with acorresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market performance conditions not being met.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 75 www.
com Accounting Policies continued n Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as aresult of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A provision for warranty and product related liability is recognised when the underlying products are sold.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A provision for a claim or dispute is made when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome willoccur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations where the Directors, taking intoaccount professional advice received, assess that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liabilities.
o Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
p Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
q Revenue Revenue is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Income when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer.
In the Industrial Products segment this is generally considered to be on dispatch, as products have a low level of customisation and are manufactured on a routine basis.
In the Nanotechnology Tools segment products are generally bespoke and customer contracts more complex.
Assuch, there are a number of conditions which must be satisfied before revenue can be recognised.
These can include: legal, contractual ownership: passing internal quality control testing: dispatch from manufacturing sites: installation at customer sites: customer inspection both before and after installation: and or, ultimately, customer acceptance.
Given these conditions, a greater degree of consideration is given as towhether the terms of sale have been met and whether revenue can be recognised for each product.
In the Services segment, revenue for maintenance and support is recognised on a pro-rata basis over the length of the contract period.
Revenue excludes value added tax and similarsales based taxes and is stated before commissions payable to agents.
r Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries tothe extent that they will probably not reverse in the future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
s Lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the Income Statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
76 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information t Segment reporting An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including any revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Operating components are combined into aggregated operating segments to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics.
Aggregated operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Groups Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Board include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
A reportable segment is an aggregated operating segment in respect of which revenue or profit exceeds 10% of the Group total.
Discrete financial information is disclosed for each reportable segment.
u Dividends Interim and final dividends are recognised as a liability when they are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
v New standards and interpretations not yet adopted A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU and are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2014.
They have not been applied in preparing these consolidated Financial Statements.
Those which may be relevant to the Group are set out below: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
The Group has considered the impact of this amendment in future periods on profit, earnings per share and net assets.
It is not expected to have a material impact.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
IAS 27 2011 Separate Financial Statements: which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
The Group has considered the impact of this amendment in future periods on profit, earnings per share andnet assets.
IAS 28 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on 1 April 2014.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning 1 April 2017.
The potential impact on the Group of the new standard is still being assessed.
A number of other new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB, although they are not yet endorsed by the EU, and are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 April 2014.
The one standard which may be relevant to the Group is set out below: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: which becomes mandatory for the Groups consolidated Financial Statements for the annual period beginning on1 April 2015 and could change the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 77
