Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Advisers Honorary President Sir Martin Wood OBE FRS Hon FREng DL Company Secretary Susan Johnson-Brett ACIS Board Committees Audit JF Lennox, Chairman: J Allerton: TO Geitner Nomination NJ Keen, Chairman: J Allerton: JM Brady: JF Lennox: TO Geitner Remuneration TO Geitner, Chairman: J Allerton: NJ Keen: JF Lennox Administration Any two Directors Advisers Auditors KPMG LLP Principal Bankers HSBC Bank plc: Santander plc: and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove UK Solicitors Laytons Solicitors LLP, Ashurst LLP US Counsel Wilmer Hale LLP Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, onaverage 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Print Speed, a paper sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Report and Financial Statements 2014 Oxford Instruments plc 129 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information please email: info.
com As part of Oxford Instruments environmental policy this report has been printed on FSC paper.
This publication is the copyright of Oxford Instruments plc and provides outline information only, which unless agreed by the Company in writing may not be used, applied or reproduced for any purpose or form part of any order or contract or regarded as the representation relating to the products or services concerned.
Oxford Instruments policy is one of continued improvement.
The Company reserves the right to alter, without notice the specification, design or conditions of supply of any product or service.
Oxford Instruments acknowledges all trademarks and registrations.
