Strategic report Our business model Delivering value through a robust business model Pace delivers value through a highly efficient, We deliver into: profitable and sustainable business model based upon our core strengths and supported by our Profitable and sustainable long-term strategy.
What we do Paces principal activities are the development, design and distribution of technologies, products and services for managed subscription television, telephony and broadband services and the provision of Through: engineering design and software applications to its customers.
The Group also provides related support services including consulting, systems integration and customer care centres.
How we do it The combination of our global scale, decentralised and customer-focused Customer focused Go-to-market structure, broad product portfolio, technological innovation andefficient structure operating model differentiate Pace from its peer group.
Industrialised global Innovative market delivery model leading product and services portfolio Profitable and sustainable 1.
Underpinned by: target markets Pace has an unmatched customer base of blue-chip Efficient operating model, financial PayTVandBroadband Service Providers.
discipline and strong cash flow 5.
These Service Providers play a key role in creating, aggregating andmanaging complex services which are sold direct to consumers with whom they have strong, multi-year relationships.
This is a proven, sustainable, highly profitable and cash-generative business model.
Creating: Due to high levels of competition and evolving consumer demands, Service Providers are increasing investments to deliver the best user experiences to their consumers, over the best networks that can Shareholder value beeffectively managed and supported.
This in turn creates a large, sustainable and profitable target market for Pace to address.
04 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customer focused Innovative market-leading Industrialised global 2.
4. go-to-market structure product and services portfolio delivery model Pace goes to market through Strategic Comprehensive portfolio of technologies, Global workforce and scale c. 900 employees Business Units SBUs these are products and services thathave been engaged in R&D and Operations located standalone units that contain product designed to enable operators to evolve across 6 continents with significant presence management, sales, engineering and andlead in competitive and fast moving inUK, USA, France, Brazil, India, Australia operations teams.
The Customer Account Teams CATs Product roadmaps developed Highly experienced workforce specialising within the SBUs are located close to the inpartnerships with customers.
customer and are focused on the delivery Focused advanced development Engineering close to customer with core of products and services to a particular enablesPace to lead the market instep engineering centres withscale and expertise.
Consistent and replicable delivery model The SBUs are supported by a lean corporate Specialised engineering teams who are with continuous improvement embedded structure which provides governance and focused on research anddevelopment.
toreduce time-to-market, improve efficiency shared services that are required by all SBUs.
and enable fast and effective integration Strong go-to-market and development ofacquisitions.
relationships with key Silicon Technology, Conditional Access, Middleware Robust, efficient and scalable global andotherTechnology partners.
Proven track record of acquiring and Outsourced manufacturing overseen by integrating new products and technologies rigorous Pace governance and quality control.
to increase the breadth and relevance ofour product and services portfolio.
Efficient operating model, 5. financial discipline and strong cash flow Effective decentralised go-to-market model leveraging Group scale, best practices and shared services enables best-in-sector cost toserve Overheads as a percentage of revenue.
Low capital intensity model with robust discipline on capital investment.
Focused cash management and optimal working capital modeltightly aligned to the profile of trading enable sustainable strongcash flow generation of 70-80% of adjusted EBITA.
Conservatively geared balance sheet with a track record ofrapiddeleveraging.
Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
