ADDRESS as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement of.. shares on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of the company to be held at 12 noon on 23 July 2014 at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QR and at any adjournment thereof.
I We would like my our proxy to vote on the resolutions proposed at the meeting as specified below.
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy may vote as he or she sees fit or abstain in relation to any business of the meeting.
On any other business arising at the meeting including any motion to amend a resolution or to adjourn the meeting my our proxy will act at his or her discretion.
Please indicate by ticking the box opposite if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of one or more proxy, please refer to explanatory note 2 below.
Items 1 to 14 are items of ordinary business, items 15 to 22 are items of special business FOR AGAINST WITHHELD RESOLUTION: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1 To receive the annual accounts and reports for the year ended 31 March 2014.
2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
3 To approve the directors remuneration policy 4 To declare a final dividend of 23.9p per ordinary share of the company.
5 To elect Mr Warren Tucker as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Mr Eric Anstee as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director of the company.
8 To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director of the company.
9 To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director of the company.
10 To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director of the company.
11 To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director of the company.
12 To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director of the company.
13 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
14 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 15 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To authorise the directors to allot shares in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006.
16 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To disapply statutory pre-emption rights in accordance with Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To authorise the company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the 17 issued share capital.
SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To allow any general meeting other than an annual general meeting to be called on 18 14 days notice.
19 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To adopt the LTIP.
20 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To adopt the DABP.
21 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To adopt the SIP.
22 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To adopt the articles of association of the company.
To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the meeting in person, please place an X in the box opposite.
Date................................................ 2014 In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer duly authorised, stating their capacity e. g. director, company secretary.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank, your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, may not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who has been nominated to receive communication from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The vote withheld option above is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the register of members of the company at 6pm on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
The company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
To be effective, all votes must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the companys registrar at: Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF.
This form is issued only to the addressee s and is specific to the unique designated account printed hereon.
This personalised form is not transferable between different i account holders: or ii uniquely designated accounts.
The company and Capita Asset Services accept no liability for any instruction that does not comply with these conditions.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 83 & 3rd FOLD and TUCK IN BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
RLUB-TBUX-EGUC PXS 1 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham BR3 4TU 2nd FOLD 1st FOLD Officers and professional advisers Directors E Anstee G Earle D Morrison D Newlands Chairman A Robb S Rowley D Taylor W Tucker T Watkin-Rees N Wiles Non-executive directors Company Secretary S Court Registered office 1 The Boulevard Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales number 3581541 Independent auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London, EC4A 3BZ United Kingdom Brokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street London, E14 5JP United Kingdom Cannacord Genuity 88 Wood Street London, EC2V 7QR United Kingdom Jefferies Hoare Govett Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London, EC4V 3BJ United Kingdom Registrar Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent, BR3 4TU United Kingdom Printed and bound by Empress Litho.
This document is printed on paper produced at a mill that is FSC and EMAS certified.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
Carbon Balancing by the World Land Trust tackles climate change through projects that both offset carbon dioxide CO2 emissions and conserve biodiversity.
PayPoint plc 1 The Boulevard, Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire AL7 1EL United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1707 600300 Fax 44 0 1707 600333 www.
