THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, tax adviser, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have recently sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in PayPoint plc, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer, so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares as soon as possible.
PayPoint plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2014 annual general meeting of PayPoint plc will be held at the offices of Canaccord Genuity, 88 Wood Street, London EC2V 7QR, on Wednesday 23 July at 12 noon.
You will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below.
Resolutions 18, 19, 20 and 24 will be proposed as special resolutions.
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
To receive the annual accounts and reports for the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
To approve the directors remuneration report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 34 to 37 of the report for the financial year ended 31 March 2014, as set out on pages 25 to 41 of the companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014.
To approve the directors remuneration policy, the full text of which is contained in the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 March 2014, as set out on pages 25 to 41 of the companys annual report and accounts.
To declare a final dividend of 23.9 pence per ordinary share of the company.
To elect Mr Warren Tucker as a director.
To re-elect Mr Eric Anstee as a director.
To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director.
To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director.
To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director.
To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director.
To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director.
To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company at which the accounts are laid.
That the directors are authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 67,899.70, provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2015 or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot shares or grant rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors under section 1 of the Act are revoked save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution, which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That the directors are empowered in accordance with sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash under the authority conferred by resolution 15 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities to or in favour of i the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date s, and ii the holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities and subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and b the allotment otherwise than under sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,184.96 and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 15 above, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That subject to, and in accordance with the companys articles of association and pursuant to section 701 of the Act, the company is authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of one penny of the company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased under this authority is 10,178,165: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the nominal value of such share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share in the company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2015 or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months from the date of this resolution: and e the company may make any purchase of its ordinary shares under a contract concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
All shares purchased shall either: i be cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase: or ii be held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
That any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the companys Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the principal terms of which are set out in the explanatory notes on pages 76 to 78 inclusive of this notice and the rules of which are produced to the annual general meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be and is hereby approved and the directors be and are hereby authorised to adopt the LTIP and to take any action necessary or appropriate to implement the LTIP including making any minor amendments to the rules of the LTIP they consider to be necessary or expedient.
That the companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan the DABP, the principal terms of which are set out in the explanatory notes on pages 76 to 78 inclusive of this notice and the rules of which are produced to the annual general meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be and is hereby approved and the directors be and are hereby authorised to adopt the DABP and to take any action necessary or appropriate to implement the DABP including making any minor amendments to the rules of the DAB they consider to be necessary or expedient.
That the companys Share Incentive Plan the SIP be amended and approved in the form of the rules of the SIP which are produced to the annual general meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification and the SIP, the principal terms of which, as amended, are set out in the explanatory notes on pages 79 to 80 inclusive of this notice, be and is hereby approved to continue to operate for a further 10 years and the board be and is hereby authorised to take any action necessary or expedient to effect the same.
That, with effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting: a the articles of association of the company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the companys memorandum of association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the companys articles of association: and b the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the articles of association of the company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Susan Court Company Secretary 29 May 2014 Registered Office: 1 The Boulevard Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire AL7 1EL PayPoint plc annual report 2014 71 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice for use by shareholders.
To be valid, a proxy must be received by the companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time of the annual general meeting.
Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the annual general meeting and voting in person.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or her behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him or her.
To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy the proxy form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, and in each case must be received by the company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
You must inform the companys registrar in writing of any termination of the authorities of a proxy.
3 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders to appoint a proxy in paragraphs one and two above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
Nominated Persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the company on matters relating to their investments in the company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment, or instruction, made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of annual general meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedure in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is therefore the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting or any adjournment thereof and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members of the company by 6.00pm on 21 July 2014 or 6.00pm on the date being two days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Biographical details of the directors of the company are shown on page 21 of the 2014 annual report.
Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which, in accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the company must cause such questions to be answered.
However, no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Information relating to the meeting which the company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communicating with the company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
It is possible that, pursuant to members requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the company will be required to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter that the members concerned propose to raise at the meeting relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The company cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections.
The company must forward any such statement to its auditor by the time it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such statement.
The issued share capital of the company as at 29 May 2014 was 67,899,699 ordinary shares of 1 3 pence each, carrying one vote each.
The company holds no treasury shares or unallocated shares for the purpose of employee share schemes: therefore, the total number of voting rights in the company on 29 May 2014 is 67,899,699.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the company and at the PayPoint office situated at 1 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1AE during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: The directors service agreements and letters of appointment: Copies of the current and proposed articles of association of the company: The draft rules of the LTIP: The draft rules of the DAB: and The draft rules of the SIP A copy of the proposed new articles and a copy of the Memorandum and current articles will also be available for inspection at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD.
Recommendation and voting intentions With respect to resolution 5, the board recommends Warren Tucker be elected as director.
This opinion is based on the recommendation of the nomination committee following the external search that was commissioned.
The board considers that Warren Tucker meets the desired criteria for the role of director and Chairman of the board.
With respect to resolutions 6 to 12 inclusive, the Chairman confirms that, based on the performance valuation undertaken during the period, each of the retiring directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The board has considered this and recommends that each director who wishes to serve again be proposed for re-election.
This opinion is based on an assessment of each directors relevant knowledge and experience and the conclusion that, in each case, their informed opinions are of significant value and contribute greatly to board discussions.
The directors biographies can be found on page 21 of the 2014 annual report.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole and most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of those shareholders.
Those directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of the resolutions and unanimously recommend that you do so as well.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 73 Explanatory notes to certain of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting Resolution 2: Directors remuneration report Shareholders are asked to approve the directors remuneration report that appears on pages 25 to 41 of the annual report and accounts.
This vote is advisory and the directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on it.
Resolution 3: Directors remuneration policy Shareholders are asked to approve the directors remuneration policy which is set out in full in the remuneration report that appears on pages 25 to 41 of the annual report and accounts.
The remuneration policy sets out the companys future policy on directors remuneration and is subject to a binding shareholder vote by ordinary resolution at least every three years.
If resolution three is approved, the remuneration policy will take effect from the end of the annual general meeting, with the intention that it will remain in place for three years.
If the company wishes to change the remuneration policy within that three year period, it will submit a revised remuneration policy to shareholders for approval.
Once the directors remuneration policy is approved the company will not be able to make a remuneration payment to a current or prospective director or a payment for loss of office to a current or past director, unless that payment is consistent with the policy or has been approved by a resolution of the members of the company.
Resolution 15: Directors authority to allot shares By virtue of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the directors require the authority of shareholders of the company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares.
The resolution numbered 15 authorises the directors to make allotments of up to 22,633,233 ordinary shares representing approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2015, whichever is the sooner.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 15.
Resolution 16: Authority for disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights By virtue of section 561 of the Act, any issue by the company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing shareholders on a proportional basis requires the consent of shareholders of the company unless the company has obtained their authority under sections 570 and 573 of the Act.
The resolution numbered 16 is for that purpose.
It authorises the directors to allot shares by way of rights issue or pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro-rata when the directors consider that it is expedient to do so and also allows them to issue for cash up to 3,394,985 ordinary shares representing approximately five per cent of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document other than on a pre-emptive basis.
Resolution 17: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares By virtue of section 701 of the Act, the company may make market purchases of its own ordinary shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
Under resolution 17, the directors seek to renew an annual authority to make market purchases of shares: each year the directors will seek to further renew this authority at the companys annual general meeting.
Any ordinary shares purchased under this authority would either be i cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase and the number of ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly: ii held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or iii transferred to an employee benefit trust for the satisfaction of awards under the companys existing share schemes.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which could be purchased under this authority is 10,178,165, being 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at the date of this document.
Any repurchase of ordinary shares carried out by the company would be at a maximum price per ordinary share of 105 per cent of the average middle market price of such a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the price equal to the last independent trade or the highest current independent bid and at a minimum price equal to the nominal value.
The authority to repurchase ordinary shares will, if approved by shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the directors and if such exercise would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2015, whichever is the sooner.
Resolution 18: Authority to allow any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general meeting to be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Further to the implementation of the shareholder rights regulations, the directors seek authority to hold general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on 14 rather than 21 days notice.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire at the companys next annual general meeting, when it is currently intended that a similar resolution will be proposed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2015, whichever is the sooner.
74 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 Resolutions 19 and 20: Adoption of the LTIP and DABP These resolutions propose the introduction of a new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and new Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP for employees of PayPoint group to replace the existing LTIP and DSB.
These are being introduced as part of a comprehensive review and refresh of PayPoints incentive arrangements, and are designed to: simplify the long-term incentive structure and align it with the business strategy: motivate senior management to maximise economic value for shareholders: improve compliance with new regulatory and governance requirements and respond to shareholder feedback: and ensure no material increase in the expected cost to the company.
In summary, the matching opportunity has been removed from the DABP with a corresponding increase in annual bonus and LTIP opportunities, such that the fair value of long-term incentive awards is broadly maintained.
Under the new DABP, 25 per cent of the annual bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years subject to continued employment and cancellation.
Under the new LTIP, the level of vesting at threshold has been reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent to be in line with market practice, and unvested awards are subject to cancellation.
The new LTIP and DABP plans will ensure that the executive remuneration structure continues to provide an appropriate incentive to create shareholder value, as well as reflect both specific shareholder feedback received over the last couple of years and developments in remuneration best practice.
The key terms of the LTIP and DABP and the remuneration committees current intention as to the operation of both plans are summarised in appendix 1 on pages 76 to 78.
Resolution 21: Adoption of the SIP The rules of the companys existing SIP will expire on 13 September 2014 the Existing SIP.
The terms of the SIP are materially similar to those of the Existing SIP.
The key terms of the SIP and the remuneration committees current intention as to the operation of the SIP are summarised in appendix 2 on pages 79 to 80.
Resolution 22: Adoption of new articles of association We are also asking shareholders to approve a number of amendments to our articles of association, primarily to reflect changes that have been made to the Companies Act 2006 and the Code since the articles were last updated in 2008.
An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and the existing articles is set out in appendix 3 on pages 81 to 82.
PayPoint plc annual report 2014 75 APPENDIX 1 Summary of the principal terms of the proposed new PayPoint plc Long-Term Incentive Plan and the PayPoint plc Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 1.
Introduction 1.1 The main terms of the new PayPoint plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP and the PayPoint plc Deferred Annual Bonus Plan the DABP together, the New Plans are summarised in this Appendix 1.
1.2 The LTIP will provide benefits in the form of free shares subject to challenging performance conditions and conditional on the participant remaining in service with the group for a minimum period of three years.
1.3 The DABP is designed to operate in conjunction with the annual bonus arrangements operated by the company and provide that a proportion of a participants annual bonus is deferred into a share award subject to continuing service of at least three years.
1.4 Awards under both the LTIP the LTIP Awards and the DABP the DABP Awards will be structured as either conditional share awards which are capable of vesting on a pre-determined date or nil-cost options exercisable for a fixed period for a nominal exercise price together, the Awards.
1.5 The remuneration committee currently intends to structure all Awards as nil-cost options.
1.6 The following terms are applicable to all Awards granted under the New Plans unless otherwise stated.
Operation and administration 2.1 The New Plans shall be administered and operated by the board provided that the terms of Awards granted to directors and the exercise of any discretion in relation to a directors Awards must be determined and approved by the remuneration committee.
2.2 The remuneration committee will oversee the New Plans having regard to market practice within the companys business sector and the need to incentivise and retain the best people whilst aligning their interests with those of the companys shareholders.
Eligibility and grant 3.1 Employees and executive directors of the group will be eligible but not entitled to participate in, and be granted, Awards under, the New Plans.
Participation will be at the boards and, in the case of directors, the remuneration committees discretion.
LTIP 3.2 Eligible employees may be granted LTIP Awards, during the period of 42 days following: a the date of shareholder approval of the LTIP: and b the announcement of the companys results, for any period: and c at any other time the remuneration committee determines exceptional circumstances have arisen.
DABP 3.3 Eligible employees may be granted DABP Awards during the period of 42 days following: a the date of shareholder approval of the DABP: and b the announcement of the companys results for the period to which the companys bonus arrangements relate: or, if later, c the determination of a participants annual bonus for the relevant period.
Cancellation or reduction of unvested Awards and retention requirement 4.1 The remuneration committee may grant an Award on the condition that the number of shares to which the Award relates shall be reduced or cancelled if the following circumstances arise: a a material misstatement of the companys audited financial results: b serious misconduct by the participant: and or c any other circumstances which the remuneration committee consider similar in nature or outcome to the above.
In relation to LTIP Awards, the remuneration committee may determine that Awards shall be granted on the condition that shares acquired on vesting or on exercise of an option must be held by the participant for a period of up to three years measured from the vesting date or the date on which an option first becomes exercisable as appropriate.
Dilution limits 5.1 Awards granted under the New Plans may be satisfied by the allotment of new shares, the transfer of existing shares, by the issue of treasury shares or settlement in cash at the companys option.
5.2 At any time, in the case of each of the New Plans, the total number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable pursuant to the New Plans and options and awards granted in the previous ten years under all other employees share schemes established by the company may not exceed ten per cent 10% of the shares in issue at that time.
5.3 At any time, in the case of each of the New Plans, the number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable pursuant to the New Plans and any options or awards granted in the previous ten years under any other executive discretionary share scheme established by the company may not exceed five per cent 5% of the shares in issue at that time.
76 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 5.4 For the purposes of the above limits, treasury shares will be treated as issued and shares which are the subject of lapsed options or awards or long-term share awards granted prior to the admission of the companys shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange, shall be excluded.
Individual limit LTIP 6.1 LTIP Awards may not be granted over shares with an aggregate value measured at the time of grant of more than two hundred per cent 200% of the participants basic salary.
6.2 However, in exceptional circumstances such as the recruitment or retention of a key individual, this limit may be exceeded but grant levels will be subject to acceptable market practice.
DABP 6.3 It is intended that in respect of each financial year of the company, the board may invite or require an eligible employee to defer up to 100 per cent of the annual bonus before tax which he she becomes eligible to receive pursuant to the companys annual bonus arrangements.
6.4 It is currently intended that up to 25 per cent of a participants annual bonus will be deferred.
LTIP performance condition 7.1 Details of the performance conditions pertaining to the LTIP Awards are subject to the companys approved remuneration policy, and will be detailed in full in the companys annual report on remuneration.
7.2 If an event occurs which causes the remuneration committee to consider that a performance condition applicable to a subsisting Award has become unfair or impractical, it may, in its discretion provided that such discretion is exercised fairly and reasonably amend the performance condition so that in the reasonable opinion of the remuneration committee it shall be no more and no less difficult to abide by or satisfy as when it was originally imposed or last amended.
7.3 The remuneration committee may grant an LTIP Award on condition that the number of shares subject to an Award shall be reduced if the financial performance of the company or the relevant business unit does not justify the extent to which the Award would otherwise vest, based on the satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions.
Dividends The number of shares subject to Awards may be increased to reflect any dividends declared by the company from the date of grant and until the Award vests or first becomes exercisable.
The number of additional shares will reflect the net dividends which would have been received by the participant if he she had been the owner of the shares subject to the Award to the extent such shares vest and will be determined using the ex-dividend value of the shares.
Voting and other rights 9.1 Prior to the exercise or vesting of Awards as appropriate, participants will have no voting rights in respect of the shares subject to their Award.
9.2 On the exercise or vesting of Awards as appropriate, application will be made to the UK Listing Authority for all such shares to be listed.
9.3 All Awards are non-transferable and non-pensionable.
Variation of share capital and special dividends In the event of any variation in the ordinary share capital of the company or any capitalisation of profits or reserves by way of any consolidation, sub-division or reduction of the share capital of the company and in respect of any discount element in any rights issue or any other variation in the share capital of the company or upon payment of a special dividend, the number of shares subject to an Award may be varied in such manner as the board considers appropriate.
Cessation of employment 11.1 If the participants employment ceases due to death, injury, ill-health, disability proved to the satisfaction of the remuneration committee, retirement, or on a sale of the participants business or employing subsidiary out of the group or for any other reason specifically permitted by the board, shares subject to Awards shall vest in due course in accordance with the terms of the relevant New Plan or, at the absolute discretion of the board, earlier, and provided that the number of shares capable of vesting shall be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period and, in the case of LTIP Awards, based on the extent to which the performance conditions have been met or are determined to be likely to be met at the end of the performance period, unless the remuneration committee determines that Awards shall vest to a greater or lesser extent.
11.2 If a participants employment with the group ceases for any other reason, his her Award shall immediately lapse in full on his her cessation.
Takeover, change of control and winding-up 12.1 In the event of a takeover, change of control or winding-up, Awards shall become exercisable or vest as appropriate provided that the number of shares capable of vesting shall be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period and, in the case of LTIP Awards, based on the extent to which the performance conditions have been met or are determined to be likely to be met at the end of the performance period, unless the remuneration committee determines that Awards shall vest to a greater or lesser extent.
Alternatively, Awards may, by agreement with the acquiring company, be exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
12.2 In the event of an internal reorganisation of the company, all Awards will either vest or become exercisable as above or be automatically exchanged for Awards subject to the terms of the LTIP or DABP as relevant over an appropriate number of new securities.
Amendments 13.1 The New Plans may be amended in any respect by the remuneration committee provided that the prior approval of the company in general meeting is required before amendments may be made to the material advantage of participants to any provisions relating to: a the persons who may be invited to participate in or be granted Awards under the New Plans: b the overall and the individual limits on the number of shares in respect of which Awards may be granted: c the basis for determining participants entitlements to, and the material terms of, Awards to be provided under the New Plans: d the adjustment of Awards in the event of a variation of capital: and e the rules relating to amendments to the New Plans.
13.2 However, where amendments relating to the matters set out in paragraph 13.1 above are required to reflect a change to the companys remuneration policy which has been approved by the company in general meeting, such amendments may be made to the rules of the New Plans without the need for separate shareholder approval.
13.3 No amendment may be made to the rules of either of the New Plans if it would adversely affect the rights of participants without the approval of participants holding Awards over the majority of shares subject to the Awards so affected.
13.4 Notwithstanding the limits set out above, minor amendments to the benefit of the administration of the New Plans, to take account of changes in legislation, to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control, or regulatory treatment or to take account of a corporate transaction, may be made without the need for either of the approvals set out above where such amendments do not alter the basic principles of the New Plans.
14. International When granting Awards, or issuing invitations to participate in the New Plans, to employees resident outside the United Kingdom, the board may modify the terms of the New Plans to take account of tax laws or other legal or regulatory requirements in the relevant country and, if considered necessary and expedient, adopt additional plans suitable for operation in the relevant country, provided that neither the terms of participation of, or grant of Awards to, such employees shall not be more favourable overall than the terms of participation of, or Awards granted to, employees resident in the United Kingdom and the New Plans limits are not exceeded.
78 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 APPENDIX 2 Summary of the principal terms of the PayPoint plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP 15.
Introduction The SIP will be governed by a trust deed and rules, and may be used to deliver shares to all employees of each participating company on a tax beneficial basis.
Eligibility Participation in the SIP must be offered to all UK-resident employees including executive directors of each participating company who have completed such minimum period of service, not exceeding 18 months, as the board may determine are eligible to join the SIP.
Basis for participation The SIP provides for the acquisition of shares on one or more of four bases.
The board shall determine in any year whether the SIP will be operated and, if so, on what basis or bases.
Allocations of shares 18.1 Allocations of Free Shares may be made to participating employees on a date set by the board following the announcement of the companys results for its previous accounting period.
18.2 The value of Free Shares allocated to employees may be made conditional on performance targets, determined by the board, being met.
18.3 Each participant in the SIP must contract with the company or a subsidiary company to allow the Free Shares to be held by the trustee of the SIP the Trustee for five years or such shorter period, being no less than three years, as the board determines.
Free Shares may be removed from the trust after three years but, if removed before the fifth anniversary of allocation, income tax and national insurance contributions must be paid the taxable amount being dependent on how long they have been held by the trust prior to removal.
18.4 Employees may be invited to buy Partnership Shares from time to time.
The board determines the terms for the acquisition of Partnership Shares on either of the following bases: a Participants in the SIP will agree with the company to buy Partnership Shares by deductions from salary, which will be deducted each month and or as a lump sum once per tax year and transferred directly to the Trustee.
Within 30 days of the pay deduction, the Trustee will acquire Partnership Shares and then hold them on each participants behalf: or b Participants will agree with the company to buy Partnership Shares by deductions from salary, which will be accumulated each month and held in an account until the end of an accumulation period not exceeding 12 months.
At the end of the accumulation period, the salary saved will be transferred to the Trustee, who will acquire Partnership Shares and then hold them on each participants behalf.
18.5 The participant may ask the Trustee to transfer his her Partnership Shares to him her at any time, subject to the payment of income tax and national insurance contributions where they are removed before the fifth anniversary of allocation the taxable value being dependent on how long they have been held by the trust prior to removal.
18.6 If the company decides to offer Partnership Shares, it may also offer Matching Shares to those participants who elect to buy Partnership Shares.
Allocations of Matching Shares will be made on the same day as Partnership Shares are acquired on behalf of participants by the Trustee.
Allocations of Matching Shares will be made to all participants on the same basis.
18.7 The terms on which Matching Shares will be allocated are the same as the terms for Free Shares, save that, if a participant withdraws Partnership Shares, he she will forfeit the related Matching Shares.
Dividends Participants will be entitled to dividends paid on their Free Shares, Partnership Shares and Matching Shares while they are held in trust.
The company will determine whether the Trustee: a transfers the dividends to participants: or b applies the dividends in the acquisition of further shares Dividend Shares on behalf of the participants.
Dividend Shares must be held in trust for at least three years.
Dilution limit In any ten year period, the total number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable under the SIP and any other employee share plan adopted by the company may not exceed ten per cent of the shares in issue at that time and for the purposes of this limit, treasury shares will be treated as issued and shares which are the subject of lapsed options or awards or options granted prior to the admission of the companys shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange, shall be excluded.
Individual limits 21.1 The maximum value of Free Shares which can be given to an employee in any tax year is currently 3,600.
21.2 The maximum amount which an employee can have deducted from salary for the purpose of buying Partnership Shares is currently the lower of 10 per cent of salary and 1,800 per tax year.
21.3 The directors will decide the basis on which Matching Shares are allocated up to a maximum of two Matching Shares for every Partnership Share.
21.4 There is no limit on the amount of dividends that can be reinvested.
Cessation of employment and compulsory sale 22.1 If a participant ceases to be an employee by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, or by reason of the fact that his her employing company or the part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the PayPoint group, any Free Shares and or Matching Shares will be transferred to the participant or to his her personal representatives.
22.2 If a participant ceases to be an employee within three years of the allocation of Free Shares and or Matching Shares for any other reason, the Free Shares and Matching Shares will be forfeited.
22.3 If a participant ceases to be an employee at least three years after Free and or Matching Shares are allocated, the Trustee will transfer the shares to the participant, subject to the payment of any income tax and national insurance contributions.
22.4 Subject to paragraph 22.5 below, if a participant ceases to be an employee at any time and for any reason, Partnership Shares and Dividend Shares will be transferred to him her, subject to the payment of any income tax and national insurance contributions.
22.5 The company may direct that Partnership Shares and or Dividend Shares are to be offered for sale for consideration equal to the amount paid by the participant in acquiring the Partnership Shares or the amount of dividends applied in acquiring the Dividend Shares as appropriate or the market value of the Partnership Shares or Dividend Shares at the time of sale, if lower.
Pension implications Benefits under the SIP will not be pensionable emoluments.
Takeover, change of control and winding-up In the event of a takeover, change of control or winding-up of the company, participants may instruct the Trustee to receive any form of consideration in respect of any shares held under the SIP.
Any shares which are received as consideration will be held in trust on the same terms as the existing Free Shares, Partnership Shares, Matching Shares or Dividend Shares to which they relate.
80 PayPoint plc annual report 2014 APPENDIX 3 EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 1.
The companys objects Prior to 1 October 2009, the provisions regulating the operations of the company were set out in the companys memorandum and articles of association.
The companys memorandum contained, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 significantly reduced the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum, providing that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the CA 2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association, but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the CA 2006 states that, unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, and in line with market practice, the company is proposing to remove its objects clause, together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the CA 2006, are now treated as forming part of its articles of association.
Resolution 22 confirms the removal of these provisions although, where appropriate, to preserve the status quo, certain directors powers that were previously dealt with in the memorandum have been reflected in the new articles.
As the effect of resolution 22 will also be to remove the statement currently in the companys memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the new articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The CA 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital, and the new articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the CA 2006, save in respect of employees share schemes.
Change of name Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name by special resolution, but now, under the CA 2006, a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the companys name.
Redeemable shares Under the old Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption, whereas the CA 2006 enables directors to determine such matters themselves, provided that they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The new articles contain such an authorisation for the directors.
The company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but, if it did so, the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Purchase of own shares The new articles include a provision, in line with market practice, clarifying that the company may, subject to relevant laws and regulations, purchase its own shares.
Under the CA 2006, shareholder authority is required for the company to purchase its own shares, and the company must also comply with relevant provisions in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The current articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of share transfers.
This power has been removed in the new articles because it is inconsistent with the CA 2006, which requires share transfers to be registered as soon as practicable.
Notice of and proceedings at general meetings The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations amended the CA 2006 to require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the company offers members an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
The new articles amend the provisions of the current articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
The new articles also reflect modern market practice in that they no longer specify the business that will be deemed to be special business at a general meeting of the company.
The new articles further include provisions, in line with market practice, allowing for a general meeting to be held in more than one place where the Chairman is satisfied that adequate facilities are available to enable each person present at each place to participate in the business of the meeting.
Chairmans casting vote The new articles remove the provision in the current articles giving the Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes, as this is no longer permitted under the CA 2006.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations amended the CA 2006 so that it now provides that, subject to a companys articles, each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The new articles amend the provisions of the current articles to reflect these changes, and to clarify the procedure to be followed if a proxy is appointed by more than one member and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more of those members.
Administration of proxy appointments In line with market practice, the new articles allow the board some flexibility to treat as valid a proxy appointment that does not comply with all technical requirements of the articles.
Voting record date Under the CA 2006, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days that are not working days.
The new articles amend the current articles to reflect these provisions.
Voting in accordance with instructions Under the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by members.
For the avoidance of doubt, the new articles contain a provision stating that the Company is not obliged to check whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with the members instructions.
Number of directors In line with institutional guidelines, the new articles include a limit on the maximum number of directors.
This has been set at 12 directors, increased from 10 directors under the current articles, to provide sufficient flexibility for future additional board appointments, should the need arise.
The minimum number of directors under the new articles is two.
Shareholding qualification Provisions in the current articles stating that no shareholding qualification for directors shall be required have been deleted in the new articles, to ensure flexibility for relevant policies to be considered, where appropriate.
Directors fees The new articles provide for directors fees up to an aggregate of 750,000 per annum subject to an ordinary resolution of the company determining a larger sum, whereas the current aggregate limit is 500,000.
The increase is intended to provide sufficient flexibility in setting the level of directors fees and the number of directors appointed in the future.
Vacation of office of director The new articles include updated wording regarding the circumstances in which a director must vacate office where the director has become physically or mentally ill, subject to a resolution of the board.
The change applies a test of whether, in the opinion of a medical practitioner, the director is rendered incapable by his illness of acting as a director for more than three months.
Retirement of directors The new articles update the current articles to reflect the companys established practice, in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, that all directors be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The new articles provide that at each annual general meeting, every director who held office on the date seven days before the date of the notice of annual general meeting shall retire from office, and each director wishing to serve again shall submit himself for re-election by shareholders.
Provisions in the current articles referring to the appointment process for directors who have attained the age of 70 have been deleted in the new articles, since such provisions are no longer required.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new articles and, in some areas, to conform the language of the new articles to the language used in the CA 2006.
