128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting, effective for annual Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. associates together the Group are international The amendments mean there would be no need to businesses covering education, business information discontinue hedge accounting if a hedge derivative was and consumer publishing.
novated and certain criteria met.
The company is a public limited company incorporated Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered Presentation, effective for annual reporting periods office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendments The company has its primary listing on the London clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial StockExchange and is also listed on the New York assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
IFRIC 21 Levies, effective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements were approved beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This details the for issue by the board of directors on 9 March 2015. accounting for an obligation to pay a levy that is not income tax.
Accounting policies The adoption of these new pronouncements from The principal accounting policies applied in the 1January 2014, does not have a material impact on the preparation of these consolidated financial statements consolidated financial statements.
Basis of preparation topublished standards that are not yet effective The These consolidated financial statements have been Group has not early adopted the following new prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance pronouncements that are not yet effective: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual adopted by the European Union EU and with those reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies The new standard details the requirements for the reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting classification, measurement and recognition of financial standards applicable to the Group there is no difference assets and liabilities.
The Group is yet to assess the full between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, prepared under the historical cost convention as effective for annual reporting periods beginning on modified by the revaluation of financial assets and or after 1 January 2017.
The new standard specifies liabilities including derivative financial instruments how and when an entity will recognise revenue, and to fair value through profit or loss.
Adoption of the new standard is likely to have an impact on the Group 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published and management is currently assessing the impact.
standards effective 2014 The following amendments and interpretations were adopted in 2014: 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting Investment Entities, effective for annual reporting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These its judgement in the process of applying the Groups amendments provide an exemption from consolidation accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of subsidiaries for entities which meet the definition of of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions an investment entity.
and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are discussed in the relevant accounting policies under the following headings and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate:
