OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 3 Our social impact 49 3.
Our relationships the best interests of our learners providing a safe, Helping learners to learn and supportive and age-appropriate learning environment whether in a classroom or online.
This year, we adopted progress is both the focus of our aglobal policy on safeguarding and protection and business strategy and the single appointed a new head of safeguarding to lead this most important contribution important new area of work.
Our people We continued our focus on our broader responsibilities learners and customers as an employer.
During the year: Our section on efficacy describes the commitments and We introduced for the first time a single global progress we are making on our responsibilities towards 1 approach to performance assessment.
Aglobal challenge is to extend access to designed to help our employees know what is expected affordable qualityeducation.
of them and to incentivise people to act consistently with An important new way of working introduced this year is our values and business strategy.
We cascaded goals from the Pearson product lifecycle framework for managing all the top down with the executive team sharing their 2014 Pearson products, services and platforms.
This introduces objectives with all employees.
a common language and vocabulary to help us take a view We consolidated the use of Milo as our single platform on investing in our products.
This is part of a wider focus to deliver training, to provide access to learning and on product and customer experience that will allow us development, and to support performance assessment.
to better listen and respond to what our learners and This is the first time that Pearson has used asingle customers need.
As part of this approach, we introduced platform for these activities.
the Net Promoter Score system into Pearson, one of the most recognised methods for measuring customer loyalty.
Employees completed approximately 110,000 courses, We used this to assess how customers viewed some of with the new one Pearson Exploring how we work our most important products, along with a global brand being the most popular.
Through Milo, we delivered a survey through which we will measure ourselves annually.
new global employee induction called Welcome to Pearson, popular programmes on Efficacy for Everyone, As we increasingly own and operate learning institutions, and a suite of management modules on performance so we are active in serving learners of all ages including conversations.
Employees and managers also used Milo children, young people and vulnerable adults.
This to record their individual goals, monitor their progress, introduces new responsibilities to safeguard and protect and assess their performance.
Arizona State University Starbucks Pearson In June, ASU and Starbucks announced a unique partnership to offer opportunities for the more than 100,000 Starbucks employees to access affordable higher education.
100,000 40 ASU online offers Starbucks employees who work more than Starbucks employees Undergraduate 20 hours a week affordable access to over 40 undergraduate to access affordable degree programmes degree programmes in a service powered by Pearson.
higher education 50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Standards continued 3.
Our relationships continued As part of our commitment to helping our employees encourage a better gender balance across their be safe, resilient and productive, we introduced a companies.
During 2014, we actively supported the 2 common global incident reporting system for health Mentoring Programme set up by the 30% Club which &safety.
Our overall goal is to achieve zero harm to provides talented mid-career women access to crossemployees, working hard through training and company, cross-sector mentoring.
At board level, Pearson communication to prevent incidents before they occur.
appointed Elizabeth Corley as a non-executive director Our performance is reviewed by the audit committee.
and has exceeded the target to have at least 25% female directors ahead of the 2015 timeframe set by LordDavies.
We made sure that our people understand how we 3 are doing as a company, including how world and We also supplemented the diversity toolkit launch last sector trends might affect them and the business.
We year by launching Women in Learning and Leadership provide comprehensive, relevant information including WILL, a global employee network in Pearson.
To date, presentations, messages and webinars with senior over 2,000 employers have joined as members of executives and consult where appropriate so that we WILL chapters around the world.
The ambition of the can learn and take into account the perspectives of our 12 chapters established in 2014 is to proactively drive people.
In developing our brand strategy, we opened a change in support of women at Pearson.
survey to all our employees with 13,000 sharing their At the end of 2014, 58% of our global workforce was views on the direction we should take.
Women represent 35% of our senior leadership Diversity and inclusion team.
The gender balance based on our organisational structure can be seen in the table below.
We are committed to attracting, retaining, engaging and developing the best people.
We know that creating and We continued to progress on supporting the Lesbian, sustaining an inclusive work environment is critically Gay, Bisexual and Transgender LGBT community at important, offering equal opportunity from the Pearson.
During 2014, Spectrum was launched as a boardroom down regardless of race, gender, gender global employee resource network dedicated to support identity or reassignment, age, disability, religion or the advancement of LGBT colleagues across Pearson.
Pearson again received a perfect score of 100% in the 2014 Corporate Equality Index recognising excellence On gender diversity, we continue to seek to support in corporate policies and practice in supporting LGBT women to advance in management and senior roles.
employees in the US, administered by the Human Rights Weremain an enthusiastic supporter of the 30% Club Campaign.
In the UK, we are members of the Stonewall which brings together chairs and CEOs who work to Diversity Champions programme.
Diversity performance as at 31 December 2014 community investment Total community spend Women in Pearson % 2013 2014 2014 14.4m Board of Directors 22% 30% Senior leadership team 2013 11.4m tworeporting lines from the CEO 31% 35% 2012 11.5m All employees 57% 58% 2011 13.1m 2010 10.5m Employees by gender number men women 2009 7.7m Board of Directors 7 3 Senior leadership team two reporting lines from CEO excluding Executive Board Directors 64 35 All employees 17,064 23,470 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 3 Our social impact 51 Disability forms part of our wider commitment to equal communities opportunity.
We work to ensure that appropriate Not for profit partners help us to extend our reach and policies, procedures, training and support are available impact helping further learning especially for the most for people with disabilities to ensure fair access to career disadvantaged or hard to reach in ways that are opportunities to realise their talent.
complementary to our business objectives.
We therefore Supply chain and partners partner with a number of charitable organisations, and for a decade, the Pearson Charitable Foundation has been Pearson purchases goods and services valued at over the largest of these.
This total includes our investment in research and development of new digital products and During 2014, we reviewed our community investment services as well as advances to authors.
Pearson was a activity and concluded that we could greatly increase our founder signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2000. impact by adopting a more integrated approach that We were clear from the outset that we would use our places social impact at the heart of the business model.
influence with our suppliers to improve standards for their The Pearson board approved in June 2014 a new strategy employees and the communities in which they operate.
which established increasing literacy rates worldwide as Ever since, we have monitored our performance against our anchor social impact campaign issue for the next five both the Global Compact principles and a set of years.
Our section on Project Literacy explains more commitments we made to them, reporting annually on about our new strategy.
In 2014, our community our progress.
The scope of the UN Global Compact investment was 14.4m, or 2% of pre-tax profits.
covers labour standards and human rights, combatting As part of this review, we assessed our existing charity corruption as well as environmental responsibility.
Specific partners and their fit with our new approach and strategy.
clauses relating to these standards are an integral part of A number of these, most notably, the Pearson Charitable our contracts for key suppliers.
These standards include Foundation, no longer align with our approach.
Therefore, the rejection of forced and compulsory labour, a respect as of 2015, Pearson advised it would no longer fund the for diversity, a minimum age to work on Pearson projects Foundation as the primary vehicle for its philanthropic and and compliance with employment laws and regulations.
Having been informed of this change in its funding, in November the Foundation board of directors passed a resolution to wind down its operations and to close at the end of 2014.
Pearson worked with the charity to ensure that new partners were found wherever possible for the Foundation programmes.
