48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Standards continued 2.
Our values and behaviour Pearson employee survey Pearson employee survey: Our people told us...
In 2014, Pearson put in place a new organisational structure That our purpose to empower human progress for the company that reflects our aim to shift from a 1 through learning was clear and compelling, and portfolio of businesses towards a single operating model that our focus on efficacy is improving our products with standard systems, clear accountability, a flatter, and services.
Over 90% of our employees agreed that more meritocratic culture and quicker decision-making.
the work of Pearson to improve the lives of others was important to them.
But, we could do more to be Change can be both exhilarating and inspiring, but clearer about how we achieve that purpose and how it also brings operational risk.
We recognised this and translates into every day planning and investment.
throughout the year we continually tracked reaction to change to understand how best to support our people.
That values and behaviour are critical to our 2 success.
We responded to feedback from the Most notably, we asked colleagues to tell us how they survey through a global programme of focus groups felt about working at Pearson, and over 24,000 people and consultation with the executive team to look at completed the engagement survey.
We then shared our current values to be brave, imaginative and decent the findings.
The key messages are outlined in the in light of our organisational structure.
Our aim was to next column.
understand how we could help our people to apply, code of conduct bring alive and extend the values as the touchstone on how we behave, act and work together.
Our values are reinforced by our Code of Conduct that covers among other things, individual conduct, learners, That in this time of change, our leaders and 3 employees, community, the environment and our social managers could do more to communicate more obligations.
We make sure everyone is aware of the Code often and more clearly their expectations of working and this forms part of the induction process.
This year, we together in a more joined-up way.
We will set a started a process to review the Code to make sure that it performance goal for each Pearson executive member provides the level of guidance and case study support that to improve on the results of the 2014 survey and will our employees need to live by the standards we set for continue to support teams and support leaders to be ourselves.
The updated Code will be circulated early in role models for our values and behaviours as they 2015 to everyone working at Pearson and they will be embed new ways of working.
Our performance asked to confirm they have read it, understand it and assessment process has been identified as a means to provide a check that the company complies with it.
embed our values and behaviours and help people create clear career paths.
Issues and concerns More work is needed to express how the new We operate a free, confidential telephone helpline and 4 structure works and to challenge that it website for anyone who wants to raise a concern and we is helping deliver for learners.
Consequently, we are have a clear non-retaliation policy in place to encourage doing more work on the Pearson brand to clarify people to share the issues they have.
In 2014, we had 112 who we are and how our products are effective concerns raised through the ethics reporting process.
at improving learning in ways that promote These were investigated and where possible the outcome human progress.
This year, as in most years, the majority of the concerns related to HR practices.
Material concerns raised are reported to the Pearson audit committee.
