40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Efficacy continued 3.
Efficacy in action Efficacy reviews, studies and implementation Efficacy is changing the way we Our efficacy review process provides a rigorous way to operate and develop our business, evaluate whether a given product or service is positioned alongside our employees, customers, to deliver learner outcomes and to identify how it should be improved.
It is being used in every Line of Business and the broader education market.
Efficacy studies evaluate the We have early evidence ofthe efficacy of a product or service in the market, conducted in partnership with customers, learners, and increasingly impact of the products and services third-party academic institutions.
We are starting to work we deliver tocustomers.
with customers to ensure that Pearson products and services are used and implemented in ways that maximise their efficacy based on this research.
Efficacy in the product lifecycle Efficacy approach and activities Pearson products at all stages of maturity will be Define intended learner outcomes incorporating efficacy into their development via a formal Review products to ensure they are positioned to global product lifecycle which is being rolled out across deliver on those outcomes, and put in place efficacy the business.
New products or features will need to be improvement programmes justified by educational research supporting their design: products in growth mode will be gathering increasingly Conduct research to measure the efficacy of products robust evidence that the product is improving learner and feed insights back into product development outcomes and evolve accordingly.
Mature products Support customers to effectively implement the will continue to sustain and monitor efficacy evidence products to get the best outcomes possible alongside financial metrics.
Further, efficacy requirements are now incorporated into our acquisitions and Starting from outcomes investments processes, from the Pearson Affordable In 2014 we further defined the standards for these Learning Fund to traditional M&A.
assessments of our products, creating a more detailed Shaping Pearson products description of the outcomes Pearson products and services deliver as well as the relative strengths of different types In addition to the huge strides on culture and processes of evidence used in our studies.
The table opposite shows described above, we have a plan in place to quickly impact our proposed framework for the types of outcomes that a range of Pearson products and to prepare the company customers desire.
to report publicly on efficacy in 2018.
Efficacy review framework making the change in 2014 Our efficacy framework examines different We are enthusiastic supporters aspects of our product performance: of the efficacy approach.
In 2014 it became the Outcomes Evidence 1 2 way we work and plan.
Planning and Capacity to deliver Its not a review 3 4 implementation process, it is a way Our efficacy framework is also being used by others with our support of doingbusiness.
and their feedback has helped to refine it.
View our online tool at efficacy.
com our-path-to-efficacy how-to-review caspar fide Bono Managing director, Financial Times B2B OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 2 Our performance 41 EFFIcAcY: TyPES OF OUTCOMES level of aspiration category and value Definition Example outcomes The degree to which learners can All learners can access digital Utility Access access a product e. g. access to learning materials from a technology and socio-economic personal computer, tablet The learner access access or smart phone at anytime and experience The level of learner satisfaction Learners have a positive learning experience The level of motivation and confidence that the learner gains Usage rhythm The progress that the learner Learners complete course of Completion makes through thecourse work within one semester as designed The timeliness The time taken to achieve the of completion standard or competence Competencies Qualification gained Learner earns a bachelors Achievement degree and skills The level of performance on a The standard of achievement achieved standardised test The learner will be able to or level of competence demonstrate mastery of Course-specific competencies the English course material demonstrated The acquisition of specific skills Ability of learner to progress to Learner gets gainful Door Progression next course of study, training employment in field of study unlocked or employment Learner progression making the change in 2014 A key client was delighted to hear about our interest in What really struck me helping him focus on achieving the outcomes he had set.
is how a conversation Although he wasnt used tohaving such a conversation on efficacy and outcomes with apublisher [his admission] he was very open about what they need todo with the various schools and created an almost programmes they manage.
Through the course of our kid-in-a-candy-store conversation, he made it clear that he wanted to build a response.
new premier partnership with us.
What really struck me is how a conversation on efficacy and outcomes created an almost kid-in-a-candy-store response from Bruce Bergwall such a seasoned executive.
Business development director, Higher Education
