OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Preparing for a Renaissance in Assessment Peter Hill and Michael Barber December 2014 Section 2 Our performance 43 5.
Momentum maintaining progress through 2015 A global research programme We take the view that 2015 is a critical year for making A successful future for Pearson hinges on insight into and progress on operationalising efficacy.
Our priority will response to fundamental questions in education.
For be on delivering efficacy in our strategic products, from that reason, we are building global research capabilities.
This will enable us to participate deeply in the worldwide conversation about learner outcomes, and to inform Key aims for 2015: business leaders of effective educational practices.
In addition to efficacy studies and market research, which The first wave of products will continue to make are based in business units, our new research capabilities demonstrable progress on the path to efficacy.
1 will look into broad and global education themes, that We are continually working to complete the actions could in turn drive specific product innovations.
identified during efficacy reviews to increase the The global research team will aim to uncover clear and efficacy of the product, demonstrating progress replicable findings to eight key unanswered questions in on gathering efficacy evidence, and refining their education, ranging from the micro how children learn efficacy plans through follow-on reviews and to the macro how education systems work effectively.
com Read the first reports online at efficacy.
com progress We will identify the next set of products to 2 be the focus for efficacy efforts.
This will be the second wave, and the relevant teams will have identified clear outcomes to be delivered by their products, as well as having gone through efficacy reviews.
Exploring Effective Pedagogy in Primary Schools: Evidence from Research Authors Iram Siraj Brenda Taggart We will have evidence of increased awareness With Edward Melhuish Pam Sammons Kathy Sylva 3 and adoption of efficacy internally.
This will cover all functions and geographies, and we will have reworked major internal processes to align with the efficacy agenda including, for example, partnerships, acquisitions, and product strategy.
We will continue to increase the external Published by Pearson 4 awareness ofefficacy... EDUCATION AND SkILLS 2014 REPORT FOR LIFE Developed by The Economist Intelligence Unit... through our ongoing work with stakeholders, and to promote the adoption of outcomes-based approaches to education in the market.
A Rich Seam How New Pedagogies Find Deep Learning Authors Michael Fullan Maria Langworthy With the support of Foreword by Sir Michael Barber January 2014
