128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting, effective for annual Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. associates together the Group are international The amendments mean there would be no need to businesses covering education, business information discontinue hedge accounting if a hedge derivative was and consumer publishing.
novated and certain criteria met.
The company is a public limited company incorporated Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered Presentation, effective for annual reporting periods office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendments The company has its primary listing on the London clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial StockExchange and is also listed on the New York assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
IFRIC 21 Levies, effective for annual reporting periods These consolidated financial statements were approved beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This details the for issue by the board of directors on 9 March 2015. accounting for an obligation to pay a levy that is not income tax.
Accounting policies The adoption of these new pronouncements from The principal accounting policies applied in the 1January 2014, does not have a material impact on the preparation of these consolidated financial statements consolidated financial statements.
Basis of preparation topublished standards that are not yet effective The These consolidated financial statements have been Group has not early adopted the following new prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance pronouncements that are not yet effective: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual adopted by the European Union EU and with those reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies The new standard details the requirements for the reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting classification, measurement and recognition of financial standards applicable to the Group there is no difference assets and liabilities.
The Group is yet to assess the full between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, prepared under the historical cost convention as effective for annual reporting periods beginning on modified by the revaluation of financial assets and or after 1 January 2017.
The new standard specifies liabilities including derivative financial instruments how and when an entity will recognise revenue, and to fair value through profit or loss.
Adoption of the new standard is likely to have an impact on the Group 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published and management is currently assessing the impact.
standards effective 2014 The following amendments and interpretations were adopted in 2014: 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting Investment Entities, effective for annual reporting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These its judgement in the process of applying the Groups amendments provide an exemption from consolidation accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree of subsidiaries for entities which meet the definition of of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions an investment entity.
and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are discussed in the relevant accounting policies under the following headings and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate: OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 129 1.
Accounting policies continued On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree a.
Basis of preparation continued either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests Consolidation: Business combinations determination proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
of fair values Consolidation: Business combinations classification Management exercises judgement in determining the of investments classification of its investments in its businesses, in line Intangible assets: Goodwill with the following: Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Taxation Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when Employee benefits: Pensions the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Revenuerecognition returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the b. consolidation entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are accounting is used to account for business combinations.
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 3.
Transactions with non-controlling interests subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the Transactions with non-controlling interests that do liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair transactions, that is as transactions with the owners in value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent their capacity as owners.
Any surplus or deficit arising consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs from disposals to a non-controlling interest is recorded are expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line in equity.
For purchases from a non-controlling interest, of the income statement.
the difference between consideration paid and the Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in subsidiary is recorded in equity.
a business combination are measured initially at their fair 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are values at the acquisition date.
The determination of fair entities in which the Group holds an interest on a longvalues often requires significant judgements and the use term basis and has rights to the net assets through of estimates, and for material acquisitions, the fair value contractually agreed sharing of control.
Associates are of the acquired intangible assets is determined by an entities over which the Group has significant influence independent valuer.
The excess of the consideration but not the power to control the financial and operating transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded the equity method and are initially recognised at the fair as goodwill.
See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates Ifthis is less than the fair value of the net assets of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain income statement and its share of post-acquisition purchase, the difference is recognised directly in movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
130 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, b. consolidation continued and of borrowings and other currency instruments The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates designated as hedges of such investments, are taken results is recognised as a component of operating profit to shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific as these operations form part of the core publishing inter-company loan balances, which are not intended business of the Group and are an integral part of to be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net existing wholly-owned businesses.
When a foreign operation is sold, such acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying exchange differences are recognised in the income amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate, the Group The principal overseas currency for the Group is the does not recognise further losses unless the Group has USdollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the was $1.65 2013: $1.57 and the year end rate was joint venture or associate.
Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint d. Property, plant and equipment venture The gain or loss resulting from the contribution Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical or sale of a subsidiary to an associate or a joint venture cost less depreciation.
Cost includes the original is recognised in full.
Where such transactions do not purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to involve cash consideration, significant judgements and bringing the asset to its working condition for intended estimates are used in determining the fair values of the use.
Depreciation on other consideration received.
assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their c. Foreign currency translation estimated useful lives as follows: 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities Buildings freehold : 2050 years are measured using the currency of the primary Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease economic environment in which the entity operates Plantand equipment: 310 years the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, companys functional and presentation currency.
and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency The carrying value of an asset is written down to its transactions are translated into the functional currency recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the e. Intangible assets translation at year end exchange rates of monetary 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies or after 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess are recognised in the income statement, except when of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nondeferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the 3.
Group companies The results and financial position acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of all Group companies that have a functional currency acquired.
For the acquisition of subsidiaries made from different from the presentation currency are translated the date of transition to IFRS to 31 December 2009 into the presentation currency as follows: goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the the date of the balance sheet net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill ii Income and expenses are translated at average on acquisition of associates and joint ventures represents exchange rates the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as value of the Groups share ofthe net identifiable assets a separate component of equity.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 131 1.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include customer lists, contracts and relationships, e. Intangible assets continued trademarks and brands, publishing rights, content, acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and technology and software rights.
These assets are joint ventures is included ininvestments in associates capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in and joint ventures.
Intangible assets acquired in material Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at business combinations are capitalised at their fair value cost less accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment as determined by an independent valuer.
Intangible loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives ofgoodwill exceeds the recoverable amount.
The of between two and 20 years, using an amortisation recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs method that reflects the pattern of their consumption.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets use ofestimates and significant management judgement.
represent direct costs incurred in the development Adescription of the key assumptions and sensitivities is of educational programmes and titles prior to their included in note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to aggregated publication.
These costs are recognised as current cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment intangible assets where the title will generate probable testing.
The allocation is made to those aggregated cashfuture economic benefits and costs can be measured generating units that are expected to benefit from the reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon business combination in which the goodwill arose.
publication of the title over estimated economic lives Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied retrospectively to business combinations before the The investment in pre-publication assets has been date of transition to IFRS.
disclosed as part of cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement see note 34.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication material business combinations is capitalised at its fair assets and the determination of the amortisation profile value as determined by an independent valuer.
Acquired involve a significant degree of judgement based on software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its historical trends and management estimation of future estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
An incorrect amortisation profile could result in excess amounts being carried forward as 3.
Internally developed software Internal and external intangible assets that would otherwise have been costs incurred during the preliminary stage of developing written off to the income statement in an earlier period.
computer software for internal use are expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs incurred to Reviews are performed regularly to estimate develop computer software for internal use during recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying the application development stage are capitalised amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. if the Group expects economic benefits from the f. Other financial assets development.
Capitalisation in the application Other financial assets, designated as available for sale development stage begins once the Group can reliably investments, are non-derivative financial assets measure the expenditure attributable to the software measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the fair development and has demonstrated its intention to value are recorded in equity in the fair value reserve.
complete and use the software.
Internally developed On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
estimated useful life of between three and eightyears.
132 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
g. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in of new shares or options are shown in equity as a first out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, Where any Group company purchases the companys other direct costs and related production overheads.
equity share capital treasury shares the consideration Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in paid, including any directly attributable incremental the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for attributable to the companys equity holders until the slow moving and obsolete stock.
shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where h. Royalty advances such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any Advances of royalties to authors are included within consideration received, net of any directly attributable trade and other receivables when the advance is paid transaction costs and the related income tax effects, less any provision required to adjust the advance to is included in equity attributable to the companys its net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty equity holders.
advances relies on a degree of management judgement k. Borrowings in determining the profitability of individual author Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost onoperating profits as these excess amounts will be with any difference between the proceeds net of writtenoff.
transaction costs and the redemption value being The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an recognised in the income statement over the period annual detailed management review of the age of the of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
advance, the future sales projections for new authors Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
and prior sales history of repeat authors.
Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying value The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted or in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
effective royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income Royalty advances which will be consumed within one statement asincurred.
year are held in current assets.
Royalty advances which will be consumed after one year are held in l. Derivative financial instruments non-current assets.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives i. cash and cash equivalents is determined by using market data and the use of Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement established estimation techniques such as discounted include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, cash flow and option valuation models.
The Group other short-term highly liquid investments with original designates certain of the derivative instruments within maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in liabilities in the balance sheet.
foreign operations net investment hedges.
Short-term deposits and marketable securities with Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are maturities of greater than three months do not qualify as designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these financial in the income statement, together with any changes in instruments are classified as cash flows from financing the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are activities in the cash flow statement where these attributable to the hedged risk.
amounts are used to offset the borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from investing activities where these amounts are held to generate an investment return.
OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 5 Financial statements 133 1.
Accounting policies continued provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination l. Derivative financial instruments continued is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax derivatives that are designated and qualify as net audit issues based on estimates of whether additional investment hedges are recognised in other taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated matters is different from the amounts that were initially in equity are included in the income statement when recorded, such differences will impact the income tax the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are determination is made.
recognised immediately in finance income or finance costs in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified the extent to which deferred tax assets should be at fair value and any movement in their fair value is recognised with consideration given to the timing and recognised immediately in finance income or finance level of future taxable income together with any future costs in the income statement.
m. taxation n. Employee benefits Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to 1.
Pensions The retirement benefit asset and obligation be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that recognised in the balance sheet represents the net of have been enacted or substantively enacted at the the present value of the defined benefit obligation and balance sheet date.
the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by method, on temporary differences arising between independent actuaries using the projected unit credit the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying method.
The present value of the defined benefit amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax obligation is determined by discounting estimated future rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively cash flows using yields on high quality corporate bonds enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to which have terms to maturity approximating the terms apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or of the related liability.
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
When the calculation results in a potential asset, the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it recognition of that asset is limited to the asset ceiling is probable that future taxable profit will be available that is the present value of any economic benefits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
available in the form of refunds from the plan or a reduction in future contributions.
Management use Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the judgement to determine the level of refunds available undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where from the plan in recognising an asset.
it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income pension schemes depends on the selection of certain statement, except when the tax relates to items charged assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive rate, salary growth and longevity.
income, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in income in the period in which they arise.
determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide 134 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The provision is based on the present value of future payments for surplus leased properties under nonn.
Employee benefits continued cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subThe service cost, representing benefits accruing over leasing income.
the year, is included in the income statement as an operating cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying p. Revenue recognition the discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration and is presented as finance costs or finance income.
received or receivable for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, and after Obligations for contributions to defined contribution eliminating sales within the Group.
pension plans are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement as incurred.
Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made based 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected primarily on historical return rates.
If these estimates costs of post-retirement medical and life assurance do not reflect actual returns in future periods then benefits are accrued over the period of employment, revenues could be understated or overstated for a using a similar accounting methodology as for defined particular period.
The liabilities and costs relating to significant other post-retirement obligations Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.
when the newspaper or other publication is published.
Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line 3.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or basis over the life of the subscription.
shares granted under the Groups share and option plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking into Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or account the Groups best estimate of the number of more separate elements that can be provided to awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at the customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an date of grant and is spread over the vesting period optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary of the option or share.
The fair value of the options materials or online access with textbooks and multiple granted is measured using an option model that is deliverables within testing or service contracts, revenue most appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares is recognised for each element as if it were an individual awarded is measured using the share price at the date contractual arrangement.
of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, Any proceeds received are credited to share capital such as contracts to process qualifying tests for individual and share premium when the options are exercised.
professions and government departments, is recognised o.
The assumptions, risks, and Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present uncertainties inherent in long-term contract accounting legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, can affect the amounts and timing of revenue and related it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources expenses reported.
Certain of these arrangements, will be required to settle the obligation and the amount either as a result of a single service spanning more than can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted to one reporting period or where the contract requires present value where the effect is material.
the provision of a number of services that together constitute a single project, are treated as long-term The Group recognises a provision for deferred contracts with revenue recognised on a percentage of consideration at fair value.
Where this is contingent completion basis.
Percentage of completion is calculated on future performance or a future event, judgement on a cost basis using the proportion of the total is exercised in establishing the fair value.
estimated costs incurred to date.
Losses on contracts The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease are recognised in the period in which the loss first contracts when the expected benefits to be derived becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the meeting the obligations under the contract.
contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will be generated by the contract.
