By Michael Barber and Amar Kumar Foreword by John Fallon On the Road...... to Delivering Learner Outcomes 38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Efficacy 1.
Making the change Developing our strategy A deceptively simple but incredibly The commitment to efficacy has emerged as the central powerful idea: that every product theme to Pearsons strategy and culture.
Our employees we sell can be measured and judged are driven by the mission of helping learners make progress by the outcomes it helps the learner in their lives: it provides meaning to our work.
There is also a clear business and commercial case for the learner-centric to achieve.
John Fallon, Chief executive approach we are now taking to run our company.
Pearsons measuring outcomes scale means we are in the strongest position in the global market to evaluate the effectiveness of different educational At the time of writing last years Annual report, we had products across many populations, and to develop and just announced a new commitment to what the company implement new evidence-based models.
We are the first calls efficacy.
The goal was simple, but also incredibly in the market to commit to reporting on product efficacy, challenging: we would move to define measurable learner and the first to engage outside partners who will outcomes for Pearson products and services, and to independently validate the rigour and objectivity of our report publicly on the learner outcomes delivered by efficacy measurement.
This feedback loop will make our our products in early 2018. products better and strengthen our relationships with We were also extremely aware that efficacy in education is customers and end learners, and will yield meaningful not a challenge we can tackle alone.
We will need to share results for the business in the coming years.
We also hope what we are finding out, and be prepared to listen to all that through this approach we will influence the education the feedback.
And we will need to be willing to learn from sector more broadly.
others as they pursue their own methods.
We remain Embedding efficacy absolutely committed to this community approach.
culture We also know that our commitment to efficacy is Review process and result much more than a strategy to be truly effective it needs to When we began, efficacy was merely a concept and a become a way of working for every one of our employees.
We had developed a framework which could To make this happen we have put in place a global efficacy evaluate the likelihood that a product or service will deliver network of Pearson experts who are dedicated, most of its intended outcomes, and had designed a process to them full-time, to embedding efficacy into the way we do apply the framework within the Lines of Business via business as a company.
Their efforts will ensure all our efficacy reviews.
Since 2012, we have completed 200 employees are driven by the mission of helping learners reviews.
This process has provided snapshots of the state to make progress in their lives.
The team is matched to of efficacy in different parts of Pearson, as well as what Pearsons new organisational structure: we have efficacy investments we need to make in order to move towards leaders in each global Line of Business as well as the greater efficacy, at a product and service level.
Reporting on efficacy progress... making the change in 2014... We are committed to reporting on learner outcomes by 2018.
Published in 2013, The incomplete guide to delivering learner outcomes explained the programme and its transformative potential.
The response was overwhelmingly positive from internal and external stakeholders, 200 and over the past year weve made further strides.
Alongside this Annual report, we are publishing On the road to delivering Efficacy reviews learner outcomes which reports this progress.
20,150 Employees have engaged in efficacy training Read the reports online at efficacy.
com 88 Efficacy leaders across Pearson The Incomplete To delIverInG Guide leArnInG ouTcomes michael Barber and saad rizvi With an introduction from John Fallon
