52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Standards continued 4.
Our planet Highlights of our activities include: We believe that better education Pearson retained global certification against the Carbon is crucial to building a better world.
We were the second ever organisation To be passionate about a better to secure the standard which recognises leadership in measuring, managing and reducing year-on-year world goes further and we recognise carbon emissions.
a shared responsibility to protect We maintained our record of purchasing 100% of the the natural resources needed to electricity we use from green power.
That represented over 186,000 MWh of electricity in 2014. deliver learning today.
We opened a new solar installation at our distribution climate change centre in South Africa.
We now have invested in Pearson continues to be climate neutral for our directly renewable energy generation at five sites and have controlled operations, a commitment we first achieved 2.6Megawatts of wind and solar assets installed.
in2009 and have maintained ever since.
We have set Pearson is certified against ISO14001 in the UK and ambitious targets to reduce our operational emissions Australia.
Our Hudson Street offices in New York bythe end of 2020 and we work with employees and became the latest to secure LEED certification, an suppliers to measure and reduce carbon emissions in internationally recognised mark of environmental ourvalue chain from sourcing of raw materials to the excellence in facilities management.
Pearson occupies transport and distribution of our products.
740,000 square feet in LEED certified buildings.
We continue to maintain our commitment to climate Pearson invests in forest-based carbon offsets for any neutrality through carbon reduction, purchase of part of our climate footprint we cannot reduce or avoid renewable energy, renewable energy generation at our through other means.
Since 2009, this programme has sites and the purchase of carbon offsets.
We have also seen over 1,000 hectares of forest protected in Canada, started working on a carbon footprint analysis of our Colombia, Costa Rica, the US and the UK.
book publishing in the US and UK to help us target the Our approach to managing other materially important most effective reductions.
emissions such as embedded carbon dioxide in purchased raw materials as well as business travel by air are detailed in our 2014 Environment report.
Environment highlights Green power 22% 100% Our target was to reduce our operational emissions We maintained our record of by 20% the end of 2015, based on a 2009 base year.
purchasing 100% of the electricity We achieved a 22% reduction in 2014, in part due to we use from green power.
the creation of Penguin Random House.
ISO14001 Pearson is certified against ISO14001 in the UK and Australia.
