46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Overview Standards 1.
Our responsibility Definitions Our commercial success is Pearson has adopted a broad definition of responsible dependent on us operating in a business and has established a set of commitments responsible way.
We report our across a range of social, community and human rights principles to: approach and the progress we Ensure that our products and services are inclusive, are making across five areas: appropriate in content to the age, location and ability of the learner, and are easy and safe to use and access Standards Respect and protect how we use and share data entrusted to us by learners and our customers Our responsibility See p47 1 Inform, support and equip colleagues to work collaboratively Our values and behaviour See p48 Encourage and reward high performance, nurturing talent 2 and creating a culture where all are able to realise their individual potential Our relationships See p49 3 Provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and the learners of all ages we directly serve Our planet See p52 Extend our commitments on labour standards, human 4 rights and environmental responsibility to include our suppliers and business partners Our performance See p53 5 Provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good citizens and to get involved in their local communities Deliver against our targets on our response to climate change and to make more efficient use of resources.
Also in this section: Responsibility at Pearson Environment and supply chain Impact: Project Literacy Social innovation Climate change We will report on our progress in all these areas Responsible resource use in our 2014 Social Impact report available on pearson.
com social-impact Responsible procurement Orange part of our risk and compliance agenda.
See p71 OUR BUSINESS OUR pERfORmaNcE OUR SOcIal Impact GOvERNaNcE fINaNcIal StatEmENtS Section 3 Our social impact 47 Standards Based on these commitments, the broad responsible The reputation & responsibility committee, a formal business issue map for Pearson is set out below.
It reflects committee of the board provides ongoing oversight, a series of priorities that are common across many sectors scrutiny and challenge across the entire responsible and individual companies.
These are the issues that we business agenda.
In addition, the board considered a focus on when thinking about responsible business.
detailed review of the corporate responsibility strategy at the June 2014 meeting.
Learn more on p78 Some of these issues are central to our business success: others may be small based on our commercial operations The Pearson executive drives implementation of business but have the potential to significantly affect our impact strategy, including our response to the key issues and and reputation.
The priorities in orange already form opportunities we face.
part of our risk and compliance agenda described on p71.
This year, we established a single responsible business The relative significance of issues varies based on country leadership business council to oversee the development operational, political and regulatory environments as well and implementation of our overarching responsible as learner expectations.
The premise of our social impact business strategy on behalf of the board.
It is chaired by strategy is that, in moving towards a single operating our chief corporate affairs officer and comprises senior company model, this is underpinned by clear, consistent, executives from across the global business.
global policies and standards across the entire responsible business agenda.
Stakeholders Governance Public and private sector customers regularly seek information from us about how we go about our business, Corporate responsibility cannot be separated from while many learners and employees want to understand our business and reputation.
Our board of directors our approach to sustainability.
Socially responsible has ultimate responsibility for considering issues of investors, and non-governmental organisations look responsibility as part of setting business strategy.
at issues such as supply chain standards and ethics.
Our approach to responsible business is informed by the priorities and views of our many stakeholders.
Environment and supply chain People learners communities values and governance Affordability and pricing Active citizenship Tax Corporate culture and values Diversity and inclusion Editorial independence Campaigns and partnerships Ethical conduct and integrity Code of Conduct People recruitment and Appropriateness and Political engagement Combatting corruption development accessibility of content Anti-bribery and corruption Remuneration and Safeguarding and protection compensation Health & safety Data privacy and security
