Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 73 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1 Adoption of new and revised International Going concern Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Interpretations IFRICs affect its future development, performance and position are set The following new standards and amendments to standards out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33.
The financial position are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 1 January 2014: facilities are described on pages 16 to 33 of the Strategic Report.
Further disclosures regarding borrowings are provided IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements in note 20 to the financial statements.
In addition, note 22 to the IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management IFRS 12: Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and the Company and compared it to the level of Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Disclosures committed bank facilities and cash resources over the medium Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities term.
The assessment included a review of the financial forecasts Amendments to IAS 36: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for and the preparation of sensitivity analysis on the key factors which non-Financial Assets could affect future cash flow and funding requirements.
Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of Derivatives and The Groups policy on funding capacity is to ensure that it Continuation of Hedge Accounting always has sufficient committed bank facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak working capital requirements.
At 31 December IFRIC Interpretation 21: Levies 2014 the Group had cash and deposits of 378.4m and 300.0m The effects of the implementation of these standards have been of undrawn committed bank facilities available to meet future limited to disclosure amendments.
The Group has not applied the following amendments to At 31 December 2014, the net cash position of the Group was standards which are EU endorsed but not yet effective: 378.4m note 26.
Amendments to IAS19: Deferred Benefit Plans: Having undertaken this review, the Directors have a reasonable Employee Contributions expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle Basis of consolidation The Group is currently considering the implication of these standards, however it is anticipated the impact of these standards The consolidated financial statements include the financial on the financial position and performance of the Group will be statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to minimal and effects will principally relate to amendment and 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the extension of current disclosures.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits 2 Accounting policies from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Statement of compliance The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included Both the consolidated Group and Parent Company financial in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control statements have been prepared in accordance with International commences until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU.
Business combinations Basis of preparation The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the basis except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and acquisition date.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 74 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Operating expenses Operating expenses represent the administration costs of the Goodwill business, which are written off to the statement of comprehensive Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the income as incurred.
cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired Borrowing costs entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill arising on acquisition Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts and Partnership liabilities of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised as an asset.
are initially measured at fair value being proceeds received, net of Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated direct issue costs and are subsequently measured at amortised impairment losses.
cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance charges, including direct issue costs are accounted for and taken to the Brand intangibles statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest Internally generated brands are not held on the balance sheet.
The Group carries assets on the balance sheet only for brands that Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, have been acquired.
Acquired brand values are calculated based construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets on discounted cash flows.
No amortisation is charged on brand that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for intangibles as the Group believes that the value of the brands their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, is maintained indefinitely.
The factors that result in the durability until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their of the brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, intended use or sale.
regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangibles.
The acquired brands Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand are tested annually for impairment by performing a value in use and overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle the net calculation, using a discount factor based on the Groups pre-tax outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record weighted average cost of capital, on the branded incremental the net position in the balance sheet.
Exceptional items Where a brands life is not deemed to be indefinite it is written off over its expected useful life on a straight-line basis.
Exceptional items are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the Revenue recognition basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of the financial performance and significantly distort Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties is the comparability of financial performance between accounting recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by receivable on legal completion.
The sales proceeds of part management for designation as exceptional include such items as exchange properties are included as a reduction in cost of sales major restructuring and significant impairment of assets.
asthe purchase and sale of part-exchange properties is regarded as a mechanism for selling.
Share-based payments Government grants Charges for employee services received in exchange for sharebased payment have been made for all options awards in Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based Payment, to spread the fair and are credited to the statement of comprehensive income over value of the grant over the vesting period.
the life of the developments to which they relate.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related expense in the statement of The fair value of such options has been calculated using comprehensive income.
generally accepted option pricing models, based upon publicly available market data at the point of grant.
Share options include Other operating income both market and non-market conditions.
Market conditions are considered in the establishment of the initial valuation of Other operating income comprises profits from the sale of land the options.
In the event of failure to meet market conditions holdings, freehold reversions, rent receivable, and other incidental share-based payment charges are not reversed.
In the event sundry income.
of failure to meet non-market conditions share-based payment charges are reversed.
Share-based payments are charged wholly in the ultimate Parent Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 75 A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 2 Accounting policies continued probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each Retirement benefit costs balance sheet date.
The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes.
It also operates two defined contribution schemes for employees who Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally are not members of a defined benefit scheme.
The asset liability enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax in respect of the defined benefit schemes is the present value of liabilities when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the and liabilities on a net basis.
fair value of the schemes assets, together with adjustments for Leases as lessee remeasurement gains and losses.
Where a net asset results it is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to work in form of future refunds from the scheme or reductions in future progress or operating expenses on a straight line accruals basis contributions, subject to any minimum funding requirements.
Further details of the schemes and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 29.
Property, plant and equipment Interest cost on the scheme liabilities and finance returns on It is the Groups policy to hold property, plant and equipment at scheme assets are recognised at the applicable discount rate cost less accumulated depreciation, subject to the requirement to as net finance income costs in the statement of comprehensive test assets for impairment.
income and remeasurement gains and losses via the statement Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided of other comprehensive income.
using the straight line method to write off the cost less any Subsidiary entities bear a charge for current employees based estimated residual value, over the estimated useful lives on the upon their current pensionable salaries.
Differences between this following bases: charge and the current service cost are borne by the Company as Plant 3 to 5 years.
the legal sponsor, as are all experience gains and losses.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for recharging the Fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years.
other Group entities involved in the Scheme.
Payments to the defined contribution schemes are accounted for No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Once the payments have been made, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The assets useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Taxation An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of Investments comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised Interests in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less in equity.
Other investments are stated at fair value.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income Joint ventures for the year, using enacted or substantially enacted tax rates, and adjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous years.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, has established joint control over the entity, and where the providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts arrangements entitle the Group to a share of the net assets of of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the the entity.
amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill, the initial recognition Investments in joint ventures are accounted for under the equity of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting or taxable method of accounting.
profit, and differences relating to investment in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Joint operations The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the carrying A joint operation is an arrangement or entity in which the amount of assets and liabilities, using the tax rates applicable, Group holds an interest with one or more other parties where a or expected to be applicable at the date of settlement, based on contractual arrangement has established joint control over the enacted rates at the reporting date.
operation and where the arrangements entitle the Group to rights Where the deferred tax asset recognised in respect of shareover specific assets or obligations of the operation.
The Group based payments would give rise to a credit in excess of the recognises its share of revenue, costs, assets and liabilities for its related accounting charge at the prevailing tax rate the excess is joint operations.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 76 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Trade and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are Available for sale financial assets stated at amortised cost.
Trade payables on extended terms, Receivables on extended terms granted as part of a sales particularly in respect of land purchases, are initially recorded at transaction are secured by way of a second legal charge on the their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using respective property, and are stated at fair value as described the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the other comprehensive income section of Deposits the statement of comprehensive income, with the exceptions New property deposits and on account contract receipts are held of impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest within current trade and other payables until the legal completion of calculated using the effective interest rate method, which are the related property or cancellation of the sale.
recognised within profit for the year.
Where the asset is disposed of, or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss Cash and cash equivalents previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in the bank in the income statement for the period.
accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from Inventories inception, and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Interest bearing borrowings Land with planning includes undeveloped land and land under Interest bearing borrowings and Partnership liabilities are carried at development and is initially recorded at discounted cost.
through deferred purchase credit terms, the carrying value differs from the amount that will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, Dividends this difference is charged as a finance cost in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of settlement.
Work in Dividends receivable from subsidiaries are accounted for on a progress comprises direct materials, labour costs, site overheads, cash basis, or once formally approved by the shareholders of the associated professional charges and other attributable overheads.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling prices less all Dividends payable are recorded in the period in which they are estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Investments in land approved or paid, whichever is earliest.
without the benefit of a planning consent are initially included at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out to identify any impairment in Own shares held the value of the land considering the existing use value of the land and the likelihood of achieving a planning consent and the value The Group may acquire holdings in its own shares either directly thereof.
Provision is made to reflect any irrecoverable amounts.
or via employee benefit trusts.
The acquisition cost of such shares including associated purchase costs is treated as a deduction Expenditure relating to forward land, including options and fees, from retained earnings.
Such shares may be used in satisfaction of is held at cost.
If the option expires or the Directors no longer employee options or rights, in which case the cost of such shares consider it likely that the option will be exercised prior to the is reversed from the profit reserves on a first in first out basis.
securing of planning permission, the amount is written off on that date.
Transactions of the Company sponsored EBT are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Company Trade and other receivables financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases and sales ofshares in the Company are debited and credited directly Trade receivables on normal terms do not carry any interest, are to equity.
stated at amortised cost and are assessed for recoverability on an ongoing basis.
Inter-Group guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
