Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 64 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors who are listed on pages 42 and 43 are responsible The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy and regulations.
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable other irregularities.
law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors the corporate and financial information included on the Companys arerequired to: website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation select suitable accounting policies and then apply inother jurisdictions.
them consistently: Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect make judgements and estimates that are reasonable of the annual financial report and prudent: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Parent Company will continue in business.
taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran 23 February 2015
