Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 77 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources Goodwill of estimation uncertainty The impairment testing of goodwill is substantially dependent upon In applying the Groups accounting policies which are described the ability of the Group to successfully progress its strategic land in note 2, the Directors have made no individual judgements that holdings.
The assumptions on which this estimate is based may have a significant impact upon the financial statements, excepting be undermined by any significant changes in the current planning those involving estimation which are dealt with below.
regime, or adverse economic conditions in the United Kingdom.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet 169.9m with an impairment of 8.0m recognised during the year.
date are: Brand intangibles Land and work in progress The intangible brand assets have been assessed against the Valuations which include an estimation of costs to complete and discounted cash flows arising.
These are based upon estimated remaining revenues are carried out at regular intervals throughout returns from the related businesses, which may be impacted by the year, during which site development costs are allocated various factors, most notably Government social housing policy between units built in the current year and those to be built in and further deterioration in the economic conditions in the United future years.
These assessments include a degree of inherent Kingdom.
The carrying amount of indefinite life brands at the uncertainty when estimating the profitability of a site and in balance sheet date was 60.0m, with no impairment recognised assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
during the year ended 31 December 2014.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group conducted a review of inventories in the light of the challenging UK housing Pensions market.
This resulted in a net reversal of previous write downs The Directors have employed the services of a qualified, of inventory carrying values of 14.1m.
During the year ended independent actuary in assessing pension assets liabilities.
31 December 2014, the Group conducted further reviews of the However, they recognise that final liabilities and asset returns net realisable value of its inventory carrying values.
This review did may differ from actuarial estimates and therefore the ultimate not result in any further net reversal of the previous write downs of pension asset liability may differ from that included in the inventories.
The reviews were conducted on a site by site basis, financial statements.
using valuations that incorporated selling price and development cost movements, based on local management and the Boards assessment of market conditions existing at the balance sheet date.
If there are significant movements in UK house prices or development costs beyond managements expectations then further impairments reversals of previous write downs of land and work in progress may be necessary.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets, also known as shared equity receivables, principally comprise loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property.
Asset valuation and impairment allowances are determined on a portfolio basis which takes into account factors such as the length of time that the loan has been outstanding, market conditions, including those in respect of house price inflation, forced sale discount and probability of borrower default.
The variables used are kept under regular review to ensure that as far as possible they reflect current economic circumstances: however changes in house prices, redemption dates, interest rates, unemployment levels and bankruptcy trends in the UK could result in actual returns differing from reported valuations.
At 31 December 2014 the asset recognised on the balance sheet was 201.3m 2013: 215.4m.
