Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 65 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc only Our response: Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit In this area, our audit procedures included: 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Testing the integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model used to value the assets by reperforming the calculations within We have audited the financial statements of Persimmon plc for the model.
theyear ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 68 to 105.
Inour opinion: Evaluating the key assumptions of forecast house price inflation and market participant discount rate, through comparison to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state externally derived data.
of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year Evaluating the assumptions relating to borrower default against then ended: actual default levels incurred by the Group to date and externally available data on mortgage default rates.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Performing sensitivity analysis on the valuation and challenging adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the range of assumptions used by the Group in comparison to externally derived data in respect of the discount rate.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Comparing actual house price inflation to historical price inflation as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies assumptions used in the model in order to assess the Groups Act 2006: and ability to forecast accurately.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Comparing the level of redemptions in the year to the assumed the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards redemption period incorporated into the valuation model to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
evaluate the assumption made over the timing of the settlement of the receivables.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements over the key assumptions and degree of estimation.
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on Carrying value of land and work in progress including our audit were as follows: the accuracy of cost recoveries 2,307.1 million included Carrying value of available for sale financial assets within inventories shared equity receivables 201.3 million Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 76 accounting Refer to page 46 Audit Committee Report, page 76 accounting policy and pages 88 and 89 financial disclosure policy and page 88 financial disclosure The risk: The risk: The carrying value of land and work in progress depends on The Group carries long term available for sale financial assets assumptions of forecast selling prices, site planning including which are shared equity loans over an extended term, providedto planning consent, build costs and cost recoveries, all of which customers on the purchase of a new home from the Group.
The contain an element of judgement and uncertainty.
Cost recovery carryingvalueofthe available for sale financial assets incorporates for legally complete house sales is based on the latestwholesite certain assumptions in respect of house price inflation, borrower gross margin which is an output of the site valuations.
These default and discount rate over the period of recovery.
There are valuations use actual and forecast selling prices and actual inherent uncertainties within these assumptions which require and forecast build costs.
Forecast selling prices have inherent judgements to be made.
uncertainty due to changes in market conditions.
Forecast build costs can vary with market conditions and may also be incorrectly estimated due to changes in site planning, style of build or unforeseen circumstances arising during construction.
