Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 73 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1 Adoption of new and revised International Going concern Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Interpretations IFRICs affect its future development, performance and position are set The following new standards and amendments to standards out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33.
The financial position are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 1 January 2014: facilities are described on pages 16 to 33 of the Strategic Report.
Further disclosures regarding borrowings are provided IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements in note 20 to the financial statements.
In addition, note 22 to the IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management IFRS 12: Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and the Company and compared it to the level of Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Disclosures committed bank facilities and cash resources over the medium Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities term.
The assessment included a review of the financial forecasts Amendments to IAS 36: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for and the preparation of sensitivity analysis on the key factors which non-Financial Assets could affect future cash flow and funding requirements.
Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of Derivatives and The Groups policy on funding capacity is to ensure that it Continuation of Hedge Accounting always has sufficient committed bank facilities in place to meet foreseeable peak working capital requirements.
At 31 December IFRIC Interpretation 21: Levies 2014 the Group had cash and deposits of 378.4m and 300.0m The effects of the implementation of these standards have been of undrawn committed bank facilities available to meet future limited to disclosure amendments.
The Group has not applied the following amendments to At 31 December 2014, the net cash position of the Group was standards which are EU endorsed but not yet effective: 378.4m note 26.
Amendments to IAS19: Deferred Benefit Plans: Having undertaken this review, the Directors have a reasonable Employee Contributions expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle Basis of consolidation The Group is currently considering the implication of these standards, however it is anticipated the impact of these standards The consolidated financial statements include the financial on the financial position and performance of the Group will be statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to minimal and effects will principally relate to amendment and 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the extension of current disclosures.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits 2 Accounting policies from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Statement of compliance The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included Both the consolidated Group and Parent Company financial in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control statements have been prepared in accordance with International commences until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU.
Business combinations Basis of preparation The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the basis except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and acquisition date.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
