Petrofac 124 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash 1 Corporate information flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited eliminated in full on consolidation.
the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss Directors on 24 February 2015. of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and domiciled If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Group.
The Companys 31 December 2014 financial statements are profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The Groups principal activity is the provision of Presentation of results services to the oil and gas production and processing industry.
Petrofac presents its results in the income statement to identify Information on the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures, are contained separately the contribution of impairments, provision for onerous in note 33 to these consolidated financial statements.
Information on contract and certain re-measurements in order to provide readers with a other related party relationships of the Group is provided in note 30. clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing business.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies New standards and interpretations Basis of preparation The Group has adopted new and revised Standards and Interpretations The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective for accounting and applicable requirements of Jersey law.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The principal effects of the adoption of the relevant new and amended standards and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical interpretations are discussed below: cost basis, except for available-for-sale AFS financial assets, derivative financial instruments, financial assets held at fair value through profit and Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities loss and contingent consideration which have been measured at Amendments to IAS 32 fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in United These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally States dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m, enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous except when otherwise indicated.
settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and is applied retrospectively.
These amendments have no impact on the Basis of consolidation Group, since none of the entities in the Group has any offsetting The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements arrangements.
of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those Accounting Amendments to IAS 39 returns through its power over the investee.
These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group not novated its derivatives during the current or prior periods.
considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: Standards issued but not yet effective Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders Groups financial statements are listed below and include only those of the investee standards and interpretations that are likely to have an impact on the Rights arising from other contractual arrangements disclosures, financial position or performance of the Group at a future The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when they become The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts effective.
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the and Measurement Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and the statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are impairment, and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods attributed to the Petrofac Limited shareholders and to the non-controlling beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial compulsory.
The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets, but no the Groups accounting policies.
impact on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial liabilities.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 125 Annual report and accounts 2014 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers the nature and extent, if any, of volume and price financial exposures IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and will supersede all current revenue under the terms of the contract recognition requirements under IFRS e. g. IAS 11 Construction the extent to which the Groups capital investment is at risk and Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from the mechanism for recoverability under the terms of the contract Customers.
The new standard will be applied using a five-step model at what point can the revenues from this type of service contract and outlines a core principle of recognising revenue at an amount that be estimated reliably measured in accordance with IAS 18 reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in whether there are any other remaining features unique to the contract exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The that are relevant to the assessment principles in IFRS 15 are more prescriptive and provide a more Estimation uncertainty structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue.
Either The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, that beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted.
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
discussed below: Significant accounting judgements and estimates provisions for liquidated damages claims LDs : the Group provides for Judgements LD claims where there have been significant contract delays and it is In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management considered probable that the customer will successfully pursue such has made the following judgements, apart from those involving a claim.
This requires an estimate of the amount of LDs payable under estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts a claim which involves a number of management judgements and recognised in the consolidated financial statements: assumptions regarding the amounts to recognise project cost to complete estimates: at each reporting date the Group revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed-price contracts.
and construction contracts: the Group recognises revenue on fixedEstimating costs to complete on such contracts requires the Group price engineering, procurement and construction contracts using the to make estimates of future costs to be incurred, based on work to  method, based on surveys of work be performed beyond the reporting date.
This estimate will impact performed.
The Group has determined this basis of revenue revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of costs recognition is the best available measure of progress on such and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses contracts.
recognition of contract variation orders VOs : the Group recognises revenue recognition on consortium contracts: the Group recognises revenues and margins from VOs where it is considered probable that their share of revenue and backlog revenue from contracts agreed as they will be awarded by the customer and this requires management part of consortium.
The Group uses the  to assess the likelihood of such an award being made by reference to method based on surveys of work performed to recognise revenue for customer communications and other forms of documentary evidence the period and then recognises their share of revenue and costs as per onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses on the agreed consortium contractual arrangement.
In selecting the long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the contract appropriate accounting treatment, the main considerations are: costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
Estimating these determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint venture or future losses involves a number of assumptions about the achievement joint operation though not directly related to revenue recognition this of contract performance targets and the likely levels of future cost element has a material impact on the presentation of revenue for escalation over time.
US$57m was provided at 31 December 2014 each project : 2013: US$ nil at what point can the revenues, costs and margin from this type of impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill service contract be estimated reliably measured in accordance with is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of IAS 11: and the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is whether there are any other remaining features unique to the contract allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an that are relevant to the assessment.
estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cash-generating revenue recognition on Integrated Energy Services IES contracts: unit and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill treatment for its various of commercial structures which include Risk at 31 December 2014 was US$115m 2013: US$155m note 12 Service Contracts, Production Enhancement Contracts and Equity deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets on all Upstream Investments including Production Sharing Contracts see applicable temporary differences where it is probable that future accounting policies note on page 131 for further details.
taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires management In selecting the most relevant and reliable accounting policies for IES to make judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of contracts the main considerations are as follows: deferred tax that can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying amount of deferred tax determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint venture or assets at 31 December 2014 was US$34m 2013: US$37m joint operation though not directly related to revenue recognition this element has a material impact on the presentation of revenue for each project whether the multiple service elements under the contract should be bifurcated such as construction phase followed by an operations and maintenance stage whether the Group has legal rights to the production output and therefore are able to book reserves in respect of the project Petrofac 126 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 2 Summary of significant accounting policies have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the continued joint venture.
A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby contingent consideration: the Group assesses the amount of the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the consideration receivable on disposal of non-current assets which assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint requires the estimation of the fair value of additional consideration control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, receivable from third parties.
Where it is considered probable that such which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require consideration is due to the Group, these amounts are recognised as unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
At 31 December 2014 US$34m was recognised as a due The considerations made in determining significant influence or receivable 2013: US$ nil joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to routine tax over subsidiaries.
audits and also a process whereby tax computations are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst the ultimate The Groups investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be determined for using the equity method.
with certainty, management estimates the level of provisions required Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint for both current and deferred tax on the basis of professional advice venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the and the nature of current discussions with the tax authority concerned investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net recoverable value of property, plant and equipment, intangible oil assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
and gas assets, other intangible assets and other financial assets: the Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any evidence carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor of indicators of impairment in the carrying value of its property, plant individually tested for impairment.
and equipment, intangible oil and gas assets, other intangible assets and other financial assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment test The consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of the is undertaken which requires management to estimate the recoverable results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
Any change in value of its assets which is initially based on its value in use.
When Other Comprehensive Income OCI of those investees is presented as necessary, fair value less costs of disposal is estimated, for example part of the Groups OCI.
In addition, when there has been a change by reference to quoted market values, similar arm's length transactions recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the involving these assets or risk adjusted discounted cash flow models.
Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the For certain oil and gas assets, where impairment triggers were statement of changes in equity.
The aggregate of the Groups share of identified, the recoverable amounts for these assets were estimated profit or loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of using fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow models.
the consolidated income statement outside operating profit and In 2014 there were pre-tax impairment charges of US$433m post-tax represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the US$431m 2013: US$ nil which are explained in note 5.
The key subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture.
Any unrealised gains and sources of estimation uncertainty for these tests are consistent with losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate those disclosed in note 5 and 12 and joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in its units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable associates and joint ventures.
reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil and gas assets The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared for such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the depletion of the the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments remaining reserves over their life of production.
These calculations are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
require the use of estimates including the amount of economically recoverable reserves and future oil and gas capital expenditure After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it decommissioning costs: the recognition and measurement of is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in its decommissioning provisions involves the use of estimates and associate or joint venture.
At each reporting date, the Group determines assumptions which include the existence of an obligation to dismantle whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate and remove a facility or restore the site on which it is located, the or joint venture is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group appropriate discount rate to use in determining the net present value calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the of the liability, the estimated costs of decommissioning based on recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying internal and external estimates and the payment dates for expected value, then recognises the loss as Selling, general and administration decommissioning costs.
As a result, actual costs could differ from expenses in the consolidated income statement.
estimated cost estimates used to provide for decommissioning Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control over obligations.
The provision for decommissioning at 31 December 2014 the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained of US$189m 2013: US$136m represents managements best investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount estimate of the present value of the future decommissioning of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint costs required.
control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from Investment in associates and joint ventures disposal is recognised in consolidated income statement.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
The Groups interests in joint operations are recognised in relation to its Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and interest in a joint operations: operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 127 Annual report and accounts 2014 Under joint operations, the expenses that the Group incurs and its Business combinations and goodwill share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated income Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition statement.
Assets controlled by the Group and liabilities incurred by it method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the are recognised in the statement of financial position.
consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries, joint business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the nonventures, joint operations and associates are translated into US dollars controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate using the closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities are share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
are expensed as incurred and included in administrative expenses.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and joint operations are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets arising on the retranslation of net assets are taken directly to other and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation reserves within the statement of changes in equity.
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
are recognised in the consolidated income statement as a component If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held of the gain or loss on disposal.
equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any Property, plant and equipment resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the purchase of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for nonprice or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to making controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net fair that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase price or value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is consideration transferred, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly provided on a straight-line basis, other than on oil and gas assets, at the identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and following rates: reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised Oil and gas facilities 10% 12.5% at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of Plant and equipment 4% 33% the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
or lease term if shorter Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Office furniture and equipment 25% 50% accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment Vehicles 20% 33% annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Tangible oil and gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven All transaction costs associated with business combinations are charged and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future development to the consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
expenditure relating to those reserves, refer to page 42 for life of these fields.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is allocated of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each financial represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill year end.
is monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
than an operating segment determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the fide-recognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying in the consolidated income statement when the item is derecognised.
amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, an impairment Gains are not classified as revenue.
Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and part of Non-current assets held for sale the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill associated Non-current assets or disposal Groups are classified as held for with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the value portion Borrowing costs of the cash-generating units retained.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest payable in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Petrofac 128 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 Development expenditures 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Expenditure relating to development of assets which includes the continued construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such Contingent consideration payable on a business combination as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised within When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a property, plant and equipment.
proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an acquisition, Changes in unit-of-production factors the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value of the Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is recognised dealt with prospectively in accordance with the treatment of changes as a finance cost in the consolidated income statement.
For business in accounting estimates, not by immediate adjustment of prior combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in estimated years amounts.
contingent consideration payable on acquisition are adjusted against the carried goodwill.
For business combinations after 1 January 2010, Decommissioning changes in estimated contingent consideration payable on acquisition Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when are recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility measurement period adjustments which arise as a result of additional or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, information obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future against carried goodwill.
Contingent consideration that is classified expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision for as equity is not re-measured and subsequent settlement is accounted decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life of the for within equity.
underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure Intangible assets non oil and gas assets is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the oil and gas asset.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is separable provisions is included under finance costs in the consolidated or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair value can be income statement.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried Impairment of assets excluding goodwill at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment At each statement of financial position date, the Group reviews losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their useful the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess economic life using a straight-line method unless a better method whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any reflecting the pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets expected to be consumed can be determined.
The amortisation charge recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its in respect of intangible assets is included in the selling, general and fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
In assessing value administration expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Any change in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the intangible reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the asset is treated as a change in accounting estimate and is accounted for risks specific to the asset.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
Intangible the risk-adjusted discounted cash flow models and includes value assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication attributable to contingent resources.
A post-tax discount rate is used that the asset may be impaired.
Oil and gas assets If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Capitalised costs carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its The Groups activities in relation to oil and gas assets are limited recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the to assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a Oil and gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
Evaluation expenditures Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal activities the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include the costs but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable overheads recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried as an the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and Inventories management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of written-off in the income statement.
When such assets are declared part business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs of a commercial development, related costs are transferred to tangible oil necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises purchase price, cost of and gas assets.
All intangible oil and gas assets are assessed for any production, transportation and other directly allocable expenses.
Costs impairment prior to transfer and any impairment loss is recognised in the of inventories, other than raw materials, are determined using the first-inconsolidated income statement.
Costs of raw materials are determined using the weighted average method.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 129 Annual report and accounts 2014 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
estimated earnings Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions contracts are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting market participant's ability to generate economic benefits by using the the progress payments received or receivable from the customers, are asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market shown in current assets in the statement of financial position under participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
work in progress The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceed the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated losses, value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the excess is shown as billings in excess of cost and estimated the use of unobservable inputs.
earnings within current liabilities All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in Trade and other receivables the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be uncollectable.
to the fair value measurement as a whole: An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer probable under the Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they identical assets or liabilities are assessed as uncollectable.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly Cash and cash equivalents observable Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements outstanding bank overdrafts.
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation Interest-bearing loans and borrowings based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly attributable to the borrowing.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest as explained above.
During the year amounts receivable in respect of the rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any development of the Greater Stella Area were transferred from Level 2 to issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Level 3, due to the use of unobservable inputs involved to fair value the Provisions financial asset.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Financial assets constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable Initial recognition and measurement estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the time value Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial assets at of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or as derivatives Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income statement All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case as a finance cost.
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial Fair value measurement asset.
The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, receivable from customer under Berantai RSC, available-for-sale financial Subsequent measurement assets and amounts receivable in respect of the development of the For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified Greater Stella Area at fair value at each reporting date.
Fair value related in following categories: disclosures for financial instruments are disclosed in note 32.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to Loans and receivables transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants Available-for-sale financial assets at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability Petrofac 130 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the 2 Summary of significant accounting policies asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and continued rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets control of the asset held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at Financial liabilities fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
The receivables lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability under the Berantai RSC are classified as fair value through profit or loss are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated financial assets as it is managed and the performance evaluated by as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new management on a fair value basis.
Amounts receivable in respect of the liability such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts development of the Greater Stella Area are also classified as financial together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the assets held at fair value through profit or loss and are measured at the consolidated income statement.
value which management expects would be converted to oil and gas Offsetting of financial instruments assets upon transfer of legal title of the licence.
Financial assets at fair Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a position at fair value with net changes in fair value reported in the currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and consolidated income statement.
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and The fair value changes to undesignated forward currency contracts are settle the liabilities simultaneously.
reported within other operating income expenses.
The fair value changes Pensions and other long-term employment benefits relating to the internal rate of return under the Berantai RSC receivable The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in are recognised as revenue whereas the unwinding of discount is accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries in reported as finance income.
Negative fair value changes on the Berantai which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated income RSC as a result of changes in the expected recovery of the receivable statement in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable and negative fair value changes to the amounts receivable in respect of in the year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year the development of the Greater Stella Area are recorded as an expense and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities in the consolidated income statement refer to note 5. or prepaid assets in the statement of financial position.
Loans and receivables The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Group determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After operates, further details of which are given in note 27. initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method, less Share-based payment transactions impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration in the discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled consolidated income statement.
This category generally applies to trade transactions.
Equity-settled transactions Available-for-sale AFS financial assets The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured AFS financial assets include equity investments.
Equity investments by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
classified as AFS are those that are neither classified as held-for-trading In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service nor designated at fair value through profit or loss.
or performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, if applicable.
After initial measurement, AFS financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with comprehensive income and credited in the available-for-sale reserve until a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the relevant the investment is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting period.
is recognised in consolidated income statement within other operating The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at income expenses, or the investment is determined to be impaired, each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the when the cumulative loss is reclassified from the AFS reserve to the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number consolidated income statement in other operating income expenses.
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
Financial assets No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting is fide-recognised where: condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but performance conditions and service conditions are satisfied.
Equity has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: or cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 131 Annual report and accounts 2014 Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive purchased to satisfy various new share scheme awards made to the payments can be measured reliably.
Variation orders are only included employees of the Company and its joint venture partner employees, in revenue when it is probable they will be accepted and can be which will be transferred to the members of the schemes on their measured reliably and claims are only included in revenue when respective vesting dates subject to satisfying any performance negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable conditions of each scheme.
The trusts continue to be included in the that the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
Group financial statements under IFRS 10.
Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services Treasury shares and Integrated Energy Services For the purpose of making awards under the Groups employee share Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in schemes, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture of rates.
All these shares have been Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the percentageclassified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within of-completion method, measured by milestones completed or earned equity.
Shares vested during the year are satisfied with these shares.
value once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the Leases early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of a contract The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are recognised only to is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and the extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance to use the asset.
standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only included in revenue transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is All other leases are classified as operating leases.
probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets Integrated Energy Services of the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of commencement Equity Upstream Investments of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of processing or sale of hydrocarbons from the Groups Equity Upstream the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The corresponding liability Investments on an entitlement basis, when the significant risks and to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned Production Enhancement Contracts between finance costs in the income statement and reduction of the Revenue from production enhancement contracts is recognised based lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the on the volume of hydrocarbons produced in the period and the agreed remaining balance of the liability.
tariff and the reimbursement arrangement for costs incurred.
The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments Risk Services Contract RSC for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income Revenue from the Risk Services Contract is recognised as follows: statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
The construction services element of the RSC is accounted for using Revenue recognition a  method at the end of the reporting period Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic measured on the basis of the extent of the schedule of work benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Due to uncertainties about the eventual financial The following specific recognition criteria also apply: outcome of the construction work no margin is recognised in the early stages of the construction and revenues are only recognised to the Onshore Engineering & Construction extent of costs until the outcome can be estimated reliably Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised using the The operation and management activities revenues margins are  method, based on surveys of work performed recognised on a proportionate basis over the life of the contract once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the early on the basis of the level of operating expenditure incurred each year stages of contract completion, when the outcome of a contract cannot The total remuneration fee is a multiple of the estimated capital be estimated reliably, contract revenues are recognised only to the expenditure control budget agreed with the customer with this extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
multiple designed to deliver the contractors internal rate of return Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis which is determined by the contractors performance against a matrix of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by the of KPIs which include actual cost of field development vs control cost-to-cost method.
budget set, the time taken to achieve first gas from the field and the timing of final project completion Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule of rates.
Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
Petrofac 132 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 Derivative financial instruments and hedging 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency continued contracts and oil price collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks Payment of cost recovery commences from first oil gas in equal associated with foreign currency and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative quarterly instalments over seven years and payment of the financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on remuneration fee commences from the quarter following completion of which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently the construction phase of the project and concludes at the end of the remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the RSC term.
These receivable amounts under the RSC are classified as fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss as the contract is Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives managed and the performance evaluated by management on a fair that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated value basis.
For measurement purposes, fair value principles are income statement.
applied to calculate the present value of earned remuneration under the contract by discounting back to present value and then splitting The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference between due within one year and long term receivables within other to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity financial assets see note 16 on page 149 profiles.
The fair value of oil price collar contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Pre-contract bid costs Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until there is a For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which all further costs fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair are recognised as assets and expensed over the life of the contract.
value of a recognised asset or liability: or Income taxes cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a deferred tax.
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in transaction, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and how the Group will for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the statement the hedged risk.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at of financial position date between the carrying amounts of assets and hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following exceptions: changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither hedging relationship, as follows: accounting nor taxable profit or loss in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with Cash flow hedges investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the income in net unrealised gains losses on derivatives, while the foreseeable future: and ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the that a taxable profit will be available against which the deductible consolidated income statement when the hedged transaction affects the temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can consolidated income statement.
be utilised If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to comprehensive income remains separately in equity until the forecast allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Unrecognised transaction occurs and affects the consolidated income statement.
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each statement of financial When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the position date and are recognised to the extent that it has become cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to income is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Embedded derivatives Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are Current and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to other not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are credited or or transaction are separated and accounted for as charged to respectively, other comprehensive income or equity.
income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 133 Annual report and accounts 2014 3 Segment information The Group delivers its services through the four reporting segments set out below: Onshore Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore oil and gas industry Offshore Projects & Operations which provides offshore engineering, operations and maintenance onshore and offshore and engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the offshore oil and gas industry Engineering & Consulting Services which provides technical engineering, consultancy, conceptual design, front end engineering and design FEED and project management consultancy PMC across all sectors including renewables Integrated Energy Services which co-invests with partners in oil and gas production, processing and transportation assets, provides production improvement services under value aligned commercial structures and oil and gas related technical competency training and consultancy services Management separately monitors the trading results of its four reporting segments for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and for making decisions about how resources are allocated.
From 1 January 2014, internal management reporting was changed such that interest costs and income arising from borrowings and cash balances which are not directly attributable to individual operating segments are allocated to Corporate rather than allocated to individual segments.
The presentation of profitability for each segment in the 31 December 2014 consolidated financial statements reflects this treatment and the 31 December 2013 comparative period has been restated accordingly.
In addition, as in prior periods certain shareholder services related overheads, intra-group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to reporting segments.
The presentation of the Group results below also separately identifies the effect of asset impairments, provision for onerous contract and remeasurements.
Results excluding these non-recurring items are used by management and presented in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the business.
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the Groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Year ended 31 December 2014 Integrated Energy Services exceptional Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation items and certain Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Business re-measurements Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations performance Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1 External sales 3,207 2,000 276 768 10 6,241 6,241 Inter-segment sales 34 9 161 14 218 Total revenue 3,241 2,009 437 782 228 6,241 6,241 2 Segment results 395 89 39 165 4 11 695 463 232 Unallocated corporate costs 11 11 11 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 395 89 39 165 15 11 684 463 221 Share of profits of associates joint ventures 7 7 7 Finance costs 25 54 79 79 Finance income 20 2 22 22 Profit loss before income tax 395 89 39 167 67 11 634 463 171 Income tax expense credit 28 25 6 36 6 33 2 31 Non-controlling interests 20 20 20 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 403 64 33 131 61 11 581 461 120 1 Negative elimination of external sales shown above of US$10m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the Laggan-Tormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
2 Represents release of previously eliminated margin relating to West Desaru and Berantai vessel on disposal of subsidiary.
Petrofac 134 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment information continued Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 28 171 9 437 12 11 668 Intangible oil and gas assets 144 144 Charges: Depreciation 431861594 230 Amortisation and write off 14 14 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 433 433 Other long-term employment benefits 18 1 19 Share-based payments 11 4 1 3 3 22 Year ended 31 December 2013 As restated Onshore Offshore Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1 External sales 3,524 1,639 196 922 48 6,329 Inter-segment sales 10 32 166 12 220 Total revenue 3,534 1,671 362 934 172 6,329 2 Segment results 483 99 31 146 2 19 780 Unallocated corporate costs 9 9 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 483 99 31 146 7 19 771 Share of profits of associates joint ventures 2 20 22 Finance costs 4 24 28 Finance income 23 1 24 Profit loss before income tax 483 99 33 185 30 19 789 Income tax expense credit 50 28 4 60 1 1 142 Non-controlling interests 3 3 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 433 71 32 125 29 18 650 Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 60 40 6 497 5 11 597 Intangible oil and gas assets 43 43 Charges: Depreciation 5219514411 2 229 Amortisation and write off 4 5 9 Other long-term employment benefits 19 1 20 Share-based payments 9 2 1 2 1 15 1 Positive elimination of external sales shown above of US$48m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the Laggan-Tormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
2 Includes US$22m gain arising from the granting of a finance lease for the FPF5 floating production facility to the PM304 joint venture in which the Group has a 30% interest.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 135 Annual report and accounts 2014 Geographical segments The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and non-current assets by geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Year ended 31 December 2014 United United Arab Other Kuwait Saudi Arabia Kingdom Emirates Algeria Malaysia Oman countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,401 925 688 515 469 450 355 1,438 6,241 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Tunisia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 54 299 421 800 61 63 1,698 Intangible oil and gas assets 11 135 9 1 156 Other intangible assets 7 23 30 Goodwill 67 44 3 1 115 Year ended 31 December 2013 United United Arab Other Iraq Kingdom Turkmenistan Algeria Emirates Malaysia Saudi Arabia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,640 697 714 678 556 395 388 1,261 6,329 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Tunisia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 48 139 327 139 377 50 111 1,191 Intangible oil and gas assets 11 270 8 1 290 Other intangible assets 10 24 5 1 40 Goodwill 107 44 4 155 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenues representing greater than 10% of Group revenues arose from two customers amounting to US$525m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment and US$449m in the Offshore Projects & Operations segment 2013: one customer US$696m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment.
Revenue 2014 2013 US$m US$m Rendering of services 6,044 6,181 Sale of crude oil and gas 197 148 6,241 6,329 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$226m 2013: US$389m.
The revenues are included as external revenues of the Group since the risks and rewards associated with recognition are assumed by the Group.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2014 is depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$210m during 2014 2013: US$207m note 10, oil and gas intangible amounting to US$8m 2013: US$nil written off during the year note 13 and intangible amortisation of US$2m 2013: US$nil.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and losses on undesignated derivatives of US$10m 2013: US$nil.
These amounts are an economic hedge of foreign exchange risk but do not meet the criteria within IAS 39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
Petrofac 136 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Revenues and expenses continued c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2014 2013 US$m US$m Staff costs 223 245 Depreciation note 10 20 22 Amortisation note 13 3 9 Write off of intangible oil and gas assets note 13 1 Other operating expenses 121 111 368 387 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
d. Staff costs 2014 2013 US$m US$m Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 1,164 1,154 Social security costs 68 58 Defined contribution pension costs 23 18 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 27 19 20 Expense of share-based payments note 24 22 15 1,296 1,265 Of the US$1,296m 2013: US$1,265m of staff costs shown above, US$1,073m 2013: US$1,020m is included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of payrolled staff employed by the Group during the year was 16,135 2013: 15,948. e. Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Group audit fee 2 2 Audit of accounts of subsidiaries 1 1 Others 1 1 4 4 Others include audit related assurance services of US$380,000 2013: US$350,000, tax advisory services of US$210,000 2013: US$460,000, tax compliance services of US$240,000 2013: US$200,000 and other non-audit services of US$40,000 2013: US$340,000.
f. Other operating income 2014 2013 US$m US$m Gain on disposal of non-current asset 56 Foreign exchange gains 30 10 Other income 9 1 95 11 Other income includes US$5m receipt of liquidated damages from a vendor for late delivery of a MOPU.
Disposal of non-current asset On 13 August 2014 the Group sold 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited which via its subsidiaries owns interests in the FPSO Berantai, FPF3 formerly Jasmine venture and FPF5 formerly Ocean Legend to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited for an initial cash consideration of US$307m.
At 31 December 2014, there was a further US$34m of contingent consideration payable and this together with the initial consideration of US$307m resulted in the recognition of a total gain on disposal of US$56m in the IES segment, which includes fair value gain of US$31m on initial recognition of remaining 20% investment in associate.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 137 Annual report and accounts 2014 The gain on disposal has been computed as follows: 2014 US$m Fair value of consideration for 80% of the equity received in cash 87 Proceeds from repayments of loans due from FPSO Holding Limited 220 307 Fair value of contingent consideration for 80% of the equity receivable at reporting date 34 Total consideration 341 Property, plant and equipment 31 Cash 48 Finance lease receivables 336 Trade and other receivables 16 Debt acquisition costs 3 Total book value of assets disposed 434 Berantai RSC project financing debt transferred note 26 128 Trade and other payables 25 Total book value of liabilities disposed 153 Due to due from related parties arising on disposal Due from related parties 23 Due to related parties 40 17 Allocated goodwill written off note 12 15 Transaction costs 3 Fair value gain on initial recognition of remaining 20% investment in associate 31 Gain on disposal 56 g. Other operating expenses 2014 2013 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses 39 15 Loss on fair value changes in Seven Energy warrants note 15 1 Other expenses 3 1 42 17 Petrofac 138 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2014 2013 US$m US$m Impairment of assets including goodwill 172 Fair value re-measurements 261 433 Provision for onerous contract 30 Total exceptional items and certain re-measurements 463 Tax relief 2 Income statement charge for the year 461 As a result of significantly lower commodity price expectations, cost overruns on the conversion of the FPF1 vessel and the latest view of the timing of first production, the Group reviewed the carrying value of its loan receivable from Ithaca Energy in respect of the Greater Stella Area in the UK.
The review was carried out on a fair value basis using risk adjusted cash flow projections discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0%.
This resulted in a pre-tax reduction in fair value of the Greater Stella Area receivable of US$207m post-tax US$207m in the IES segment.
Following the review of the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania the Group has taken the decision to exit the contract and consequently has fully impaired the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment relating to the contract of US$130m and other intangible assets of US$4m.
This resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$134m post-tax US$137m and the Group has also provided for expenses relating to termination of this contract of US$30m in the IES segment.
The Group has also reviewed the carrying value of the other assets, including goodwill in the IES portfolio in light of lower commodity price expectations.
As a result of this review further impairment charges of US$20m post-tax US$25m have been recognised in the IES segment in respect of the FPSO Opportunity and OML119 in Nigeria and US$18m of IES goodwill has been written off.
Pre-tax fair value re-measurements of US$54m post-tax US$44m have been recognised on the Berantai RSC in Malaysia and the warrants the Group holds over shares in Seven Energy International Limited.
For impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible oil and gas assets, fair value less costs of disposal are determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated from oil and gas production net of selling costs taking into account assumptions that market participants would typically use in estimating fair values.
These estimates are categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles for each asset taking into account forward market commodity prices over the relevant period and where external forward prices are not available the Groups Board approved five year business planning assumptions are used.
As each field has different reservoir characteristics and contractual terms the post-tax cash flows for each asset are calculated using individual economic models which include assumptions around the amount of recoverable reserves, production costs, life of the field licence period and the selling price of the commodities produced.
Refer to note 32 for fair value disclosures in respect of assets carried at fair value.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 139 Annual report and accounts 2014 6 Finance costs income 2014 2013 US$m US$m Finance costs Long-term borrowings 54 23 Finance leases 19 Short-term loans and overdrafts 1 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 27 6 4 Total finance costs 79 28 Finance income Bank interest 2 1 Unwinding of discount on long-term receivables from customers note 16 20 23 Total finance income 22 24 7 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: Exceptional Business items and certain Total performance re-measurements 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Current income tax Current income tax charge 108 108 170 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 89 89 29 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 16 7 9 2 Recognition of tax losses relating to prior periods 2 5 3 1 Income tax expense credit reported in the income statement 33 2 31 142 Income tax reported in equity Deferred tax related to items charged directly to equity 2 2 2 Current income tax related to share schemes 1 1 Income tax income reported in equity 1 1 2 The split of the Groups tax charge between current and deferred tax varies from year to year depending largely on: the variance between tax provided on the percentage of completion of projects versus that paid on accrued income for engineering, procurement and construction contracts: and the tax deductions available for expenditure on Risk Service Contracts and Production Enhancement Contracts PECs, which are partially offset by the creation of losses.
See 7c below for the impact on the movements in the year.
Petrofac 140 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Income tax continued b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: Exceptional Total Business items and certain performance re-measurements 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Accounting profit before tax 634 463 171 789 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0% 2013: 0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 69 38 31 154 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 15 1 16 20 Adjustments in respect of previous years 90 1 89 28 Adjustments in respect of losses not previously recognised derecognised 4 2 2 8 Unrecognised tax losses 39 6 45 1 Other permanent differences 4 26 30 2 Effect of change in tax rates 1 At the effective income tax rate of 18.4% 2013: 18.0% 33 2 31 142 The Group's effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2014 is 18.4% 2013: 18.0%.
The Groups effective tax rate, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain re-measurements, for the year ended 31 December 2014 is 5.2% 2013: 18.0%.
A number of factors have impacted the effective tax rate, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain re-measurements, this year, principally being the net release of tax provisions held in respect of income taxes which is partially offset by the impact of tax losses created in the year for which the realisation against future taxable profits is not probable.
In line with prior years, the effective tax rate is also driven by the mix of profits in the jurisdictions in which profits are earned.
The adjustments in respect of prior periods include the utilisation of tax losses which were previously unrecognised, in addition to the tax provision release mentioned above.
From 1 April 2015, the main UK corporation tax rate will be 20%.
The change in the UK rate to 20% was substantively enacted prior to 1 Jan 2014 and the impact of the change included within the prior year charge.
There is therefore no impact of the change on the current year charge.
From 1 January 2016 the main Malaysian rate of corporation tax will reduce by 1% to 24%.
This change was substantively enacted prior to the reporting date and therefore the impact of the change on the current year tax charge has been included above.
c. Deferred tax Deferred tax relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated income of financial position statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 2 3 1 Accelerated depreciation 239 204 35 83 Profit recognition 58 32 26 68 Other temporary differences 2 2 2 Gross deferred tax liabilities 301 241 Deferred tax assets Losses available for offset 108 93 15 3 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 3 2 1 1 Share scheme 4 6 1 Profit recognition 5 6 1 5 Other temporary differences 64 31 33 26 Gross deferred tax assets 184 138 Net deferred tax liability deferred tax charge 117 103 12 1 Of which Deferred tax assets 34 37 Deferred tax liabilities 151 140 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 141 Annual report and accounts 2014 d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through offset against future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$231m 2013: US$29m.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Expiration dates for tax losses No earlier than 2019 18 No earlier than 2024 No expiration date 201 17 219 17 Tax credits no expiration date 12 12 231 29 During 2014, the Group recognised a tax benefit from the utilisation of tax losses US$1m 2013: US$2m, recognised losses not previously recognised of US$4m 2013: US$7m and derecognised tax losses from a prior period of US$2m 2013: US$ nil.
8 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the employee share award schemes which are held in trust.
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items and certain re-measurements 581 650 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share including exceptional items and certain re-measurements 120 650 2014 2013 Number Number m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 341 341 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment schemes 3 3 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 344 344 9 Dividends paid and proposed 2014 2013 US$m US$m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2012: 43.00 cents per share 147 Interim dividend 2013: 22.00 cents per share 75 Final dividend for 2013: 43.80 cents per share 149 Interim dividend 2014: 22.00 cents per share 75 224 222 2014 2013 US$m US$m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares 152 152 Final dividend for 2014: 43.80 cents per share 2013: 43.80 cents per share Petrofac 142 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Property, plant and equipment Office Land, buildings furniture Assets Oil and gas Oil and gas and leasehold Plant and and under assets facilities improvements equipment Vehicles equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2013 288 558 231 18 23 144 77 1,339 Additions 491 38 8 1 36 23 597 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 5 6 42 Disposals 110 1 1 1 4 117 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 13 21 21 Transfers 28 43 71 Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 1 January 2014 828 448 343 30 23 183 29 1,884 Additions 172 225 28 15 2 26 200 668 Disposals 48 7 1 9 65 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 13 264 264 Transfers 5 13 3 14 7 Exchange difference 13 3 1 6 23 At 31 December 2014 1,256 625 374 47 24 180 222 2,728 Depreciation At 1 January 2013 98 141 84 9 16 94 442 Charge for the year 102 34 53 6 4 30 229 Acquisition of subsidiaries 18 3 4 25 Disposals 1 1 3 5 Transfers 7 7 Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 1 January 2014 200 175 162 18 19 119 693 Charge for the year 116 24 52 12 3 23 230 Charge for impairment note 5 99 15 2 29 145 Disposals 17 6 1 8 32 Transfers 5 5 Exchange difference 2 1 3 6 At 31 December 2014 415 197 211 31 21 126 29 1,030 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2014 841 428 163 16 3 54 193 1,698 At 31 December 2013 628 273 181 12 4 64 29 1,191 Additions to oil and gas assets mainly comprise Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$160m, and Pnuco PEC of US$12m 2013: Field development costs relating to block PM304 in Malaysia of US$46m, Santuario and Magallanes PECs of US$211m, Ticleni PECs of US$54m, Pnuco PECs of US$22m and capitalised decommissioning costs provided on the PM304 block in Malaysia of US$13m, Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$77m and Pnuco PECs of US$10m.
Additions to oil and gas facilities in 2014 mainly comprise an FPSO acquired under a finance lease for block PM304 in Malaysia of US$184m, the upgrade of the FPSO Opportunity at a cost of US$5m and upgrade work on Berantai vessel of US$10m.
Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets of US$264m mainly comprises field development costs on block PM304 in Malaysia of US$236m 2013: US$21m and Ticleni PEC costs of US$28m.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$210m 2013: US$207m is included in cost of sales and US$20m 2013: US$22m in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction represent expenditures incurred in relation to construction of the new Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 143 Annual report and accounts 2014 Included in oil and gas facilities, land, buildings and leasehold improvements and plant and equipment is property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements, for which book values are as follows: 2014 2013 Net book value US$m US$m Gross book value 19 34 Finance leased assets arising on disposal of subsidiary note 4f 215 Additions 197 10 Depreciation 30 24 Exchange difference 1 At 31 December 401 19 Additions to finance leased assets mainly comprise an FPSO acquired under a finance lease for block PM304 in Malaysia of US$184m.
11 Material partly-owned subsidiaries Petrofac Emirates LLC is the only material partly-owned subsidiary in the Group and the proportion of the nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group is disclosed in note 33.
2014 2013 Movement of non-controlling interest in Petrofac Emirates LLC US$m US$m At 1 January 5 Non-controlling interest arising on a business combination 5 Profit for the year 20 Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives note 25 13 At 31 December 12 5 The balance of non-controlling interests relate to other partly-owned subsidiaries that are not material to the Group.
Financial information of Petrofac Emirates LLC that has material non-controlling interests is provided below: 2014 2013 Summarised income statement US$m US$m Revenue 848 559 Cost of sales 715 537 Gross profit 133 22 Selling, general and administration expenses 54 24 Finance income 2 Profit for the year 79 Attributable to non-controlling interest 20 Summarised statement of financial position Current assets 604 564 Non-current assets 200 123 Total assets 804 687 Current liabilities 745 662 Non-current liabilities 10 3 Total liabilities 755 665 Total equity 49 22 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 37 17 Non-controlling interests 12 5 Summarised cash flow information Operating 133 32 Investing 38 32 Financing 16 No dividends were paid to non-controlling interests during 2014 and 2013.
Petrofac 144 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 January 155 125 Acquisitions during the year 32 Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable 4 Impairment note 5 18 Goodwill written off on disposal of subsidiary note 4f 15 Exchange difference 7 2 At 31 December 115 155 Goodwill written off on disposal of subsidiary relates to the sale of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited note 4f.
Goodwill of US$18m relating to Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit was impaired during the year note 5.
Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable in 2013 comprised a decrease in contingent consideration payable on Caltec Limited of US$4m.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to four groups of cash-generating units, for impairment testing as follows: Onshore Engineering & Construction Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services These represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The Group considers cash-generating units to be individually significant where they represent greater than 25% of the total goodwill balance.
Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services cash-generating units Recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management have adopted projection periods appropriate to each units value in use.
For Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units the cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5% per annum.
For the Integrated Energy Services business the cash flows are based on economic models over the length of the contracted period for Production Enhancement Contracts, Equity upstream investments and Risk Service Contracts.
For other operations included in Integrated Energy Services, cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5% per annum.
The carrying amount of goodwill for the Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units is not individually significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill and therefore no analysis of sensitivities has been provided below.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2014 2013 US$m US$m Onshore Engineering & Construction unit 29 29 Offshore Projects & Operations unit 28 30 Engineering & Consulting Services unit 24 26 Integrated Energy Services unit 34 70 115 155 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for the Integrated Energy Services unit The following key assumptions were included in the value in use calculations used to estimate the recoverable amount of the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit.
Where management has identified a reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions that would result in impairment, details have been provided below: Market share: for the Training business which is within Integrated Energy Services, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Capital expenditure: the Production Enhancement Contracts in the Integrated Energy Services unit require a minimum level of capital spend on the projects in the initial years to meet contractual commitments.
If the capital is not spent, a cash payment of the balance is required which does not qualify for cost recovery.
The level of capital spend assumed in the value in use calculation is that expected over the period of the budget based on the current field development plans which assumes the minimum spend is met on each project and the contracts remain in force for the entire duration of the project.
For other equity upstream investments, the level of capital spend assumed is based on sanctioned field development plans and represents the activities required to access commercial reserves.
A 10% increase in capital expenditure, representing a total overspend of US$115m undiscounted, across the portfolio of Integrated Energy Services projects would result in an additional impairment charge equal to the carrying value of goodwill of US$34m.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 145 Annual report and accounts 2014 Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production profiles as inputs in to the value in use for the Production Enhancement Contracts, Risk Service Contracts and Equity Upstream Investments.
These economic models are revised annually as part of the preparation of the groups five year business plans which are approved by the Board.
Management has used forward curve oil prices of US$61 per barrel for 2015 and US$69 per barrel for 2016 and long term planning prices of US$80 per barrel for 2017 and US$85 per barrel for 2018 and US$90 per barrel for 2019 and beyond 2013: US$100 per barrel for 2014 and beyond to determine reserve volumes.
A 10% decrease in forecast production across the portfolio of Integrated Energy Services projects would result in an additional impairment charge equal to the carrying value of goodwill of US$34m and a 10% reduction in the oil price would result in an additional impairment charge equal to the carrying value of goodwill of US$34m.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past in the markets in which the unit operates.
A growth rate of 2.5% per annum has been applied for businesses within the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit where the cash flows are not based on long term contractual arrangements.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.6% per annum 2013: 10.4% per annum.
The discount rate is derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group and has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the Groups estimated equity market risk premium.
A 100 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.6% would result in an additional impairment charge equal to the carrying value of goodwill of US$34m.
13 Intangible assets 2014 2013 US$m US$m Intangible oil and gas assets Cost: At 1 January 290 268 Additions 97 43 Assets related to increase in decommissioning provision note 27 47 Transfer to oil and gas assets note 10 264 21 Impairments note 5 5 Write off note 4b and note 4c 9 Net book value of intangible oil and gas assets at 31 December 156 290 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 60 54 Additions 10 Impairments note 5 4 Write off 4 Exchange difference 3 At 31 December 53 60 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 20 15 Amortisation 5 5 Exchange difference 2 At 31 December 23 20 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 30 40 Total intangible assets 186 330 Intangible oil and gas assets Oil and gas assets part of the Integrated Energy Services segment additions and assets additions related to increase in decommissioning provision above comprise largely US$137m 2013: US$40m capitalised expenditure on the Groups assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil and gas assets of US$119m 2013: US$43m in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
Transfers within intangible oil and gas assets represent transfers to oil and gas assets relating to block PM304 in Malaysia of US$236m and Ticleni PECs of US$28m note 10.
The US$8m write off of intangible oil and gas assets is in respect of a dry well in Chergui and US$1m is in respect of Bowleven license costs written off.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprising project development expenditure, customer contracts, proprietary software and patent technology are being amortised over their estimated economic useful life on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administration expenses note 4c.
US$4m relating to LNG intellectual property was written off during 2013.
Petrofac 146 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Investments in associates joint ventures Joint Associates ventures Total US$m US$m US$m As at 1 January 2013 189 21 210 Loan made to Petrofac FPF1 Limited 4 4 Share of profits 17 5 22 Transferred to investment in subsidiary 11 11 Dividends received 10 10 As at 31 December 2013 210 5 215 Loan made to Petrofac FPF1 Limited 13 13 Share of profits 4 3 7 Fair valuation gain on initial recognition of investment in associate note 4f 31 31 Transfer to available-for-sale investment note 15 185 185 Dividends received 7 3 10 As at 31 December 2014 66 5 71 Dividends received include US$7m received from PetroFirst infrastructure Limited and US$3m received from TTE Petrofac Limited 2013: US$2m received from TTE Petrofac Limited and US$8m received from Petrofac Emirates LLC.
Fair value gain of US$31m represents the increase in fair value of the remaining 20% share in PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited post disposal of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited note 4f.
Associates 2014 2013 US$m US$m Associates acquired through acquisition of subsidiary 1 PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited 28 Petrofac FPF1 Limited 38 25 Investment in Seven Energy International Limited 184 66 210 Seven Energy International Limited The share of the Seven Energys statement of financial position is as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Non-current assets 1,140 Current assets 220 Non-current liabilities 284 Current liabilities 682 Equity 394 Groups share of net assets 87 Transaction costs incurred 2 Residual goodwill 95 Carrying value of investment 184 Share of associates revenues and net profit loss : Revenue 76 Net profit 17 Seven Energy investment in associate was transferred to available-for-sale investment during the year and therefore only comparative 2013 information is shown above see note 15.
At the time of transfer, on carrying out a fair valuation there was no gain loss on derecognition of the investment in associate and recognition as an available-for-sale investment.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 147 Annual report and accounts 2014 Interest in other associates Summarised financial information of PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited and Petrofac FPF1 Limited, based on their IFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Revenue 28 Cost of sales Gross profit 28 Selling, general and administration expenses 8 Finance expense income, net 6 Profit before income tax 14 Income tax Profit 14 Groups share of profit for the year 4 Current assets 40 2 Non-current assets 595 102 Total assets 635 104 Current liabilities 20 Non-current liabilities 328 2 Total liabilities 348 2 Net assets 287 102 Groups share of net assets 66 26 Carrying amount of the investment 66 26 The associates had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Petrofac 148 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Investments in associates joint ventures continued Interest in joint ventures 1 Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on their IFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Revenue 35 38 Cost of sales 26 25 Gross profit 9 13 Selling, general and administration expenses 2 2 Finance expense income, net Profit before income tax 7 11 Income tax 1 1 Profit 6 10 Groups share of profit for the year 3 5 Current assets 20 12 Non-current assets 5 2 Total assets 25 14 Current liabilities 11 2 Non-current liabilities 4 2 Total liabilities 15 4 Net assets 10 10 Groups share of net assets 5 5 Carrying amount of the investment 5 5 1 A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 33.
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
The joint ventures cannot distribute their profits until they obtain consent from the venturers.
15 Available-for-sale investment On 15 April 2014, Seven Energy secured additional equity capital that resulted in dilution of the Companys interest in Seven Energy from 23.5% to 15.4%.
Following the dilution of ownership interest, the Group does not exercise significant influence over the activities of Seven Energy and as a result has transferred the investment of US$185m from investment in associate to available-for-sale investment note 14.
The Group continues to have the option to subscribe for 148,571 of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52m, subject to the performance of certain service provision conditions and milestones in relation to project execution.
However at 31 December 2014 the residual fair value of these warrants was assessed as nil, resulting in an income statement charge for the year of US$11m note 5.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 149 Annual report and accounts 2014 16 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities 2014 2013 US$m US$m Other financial assets Classification Non-current Receivable under the Berantai RSC Fair value through profit and loss 343 394 Receivable from joint venture partners Loans and receivables 396 127 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 50 5 Restricted cash Fair value through profit and loss 1 1 790 527 Current Receivable under the Berantai RSC Fair value through profit and loss 38 82 Receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area Fair value through profit and loss 399 200 Fair value change in respect of the Greater Stella Area receivable note 5 Fair value through profit and loss 207 Receivable from joint venture partners Loans and receivables 150 Seven Energy warrants note 15 Fair value through profit and loss 11 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 27 23 Oil derivative note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 20 Restricted cash Fair value through profit and loss 8 4 435 320 Other financial liabilities Non-current Contingent consideration payable Fair value through profit and loss 1 Interest rate swaps note 32 Fair value through profit and loss 1 Finance lease creditors note 29 Loans and borrowings 738 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 18 756 2 Current Contingent consideration payable Fair value through profit and loss 1 1 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 74 2 Forward currency contracts undesignated note 32 Fair value through profit and loss 11 Oil derivative note 32 Designated as cash flow hedges 1 Finance lease creditors note 29 Loans and borrowings 234 15 Interest rate swaps note 32 Fair value through profit and loss 1 Interest payable Fair value through profit and loss 8 6 317 37 The long-term and short-term receivables under the Berantai RSC represent the discounted value of amounts due under the contract which are being recovered over a six year period from 2013 in line with the contractual terms of the project.
The short-term receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area represents a loan made to the consortium partners to fund Petrofacs share of the development costs of the field.
The short-term and long term receivable from joint venture partners represents the 70% gross up on finance leases in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to block PM304 in Malaysia that are included 100% in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position Groups 30% share US$234m.
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the Groups trading activities note 29.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
Petrofac 150 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Fair Value Measurement The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Level 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant observable factors Level 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant unobservable market data Year ended 31 December 2014 Level 2 Level 3 Date of valuation US$m US$m Financial assets Receivable under the Berantai RSC note 32 pg 166 31 December 2014 381 Available-for-sale investment note 32 pg 166 31 December 2014 185 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area, net of fair value changes note 32 pg 167 31 December 2014 192 Oil Derivative 31 December 2014 20 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2014 77 Assets for which fair values are disclosed note 32 : Cash and short-term deposits 31 December 2014 986 Restricted cash 31 December 2014 9 Financial liabilities Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2014 91 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2014 1 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed note 32 : Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes 31 December 2014 750 Term loan 31 December 2014 500 Revolving credit facility 31 December 2014 475 Bank overdrafts 31 December 2014 9 Finance lease creditors 31 December 2014 972 Contingent consideration 31 December 2014 1 Year ended 31 December 2013 Level 2 Level 3 Date of valuation US$m US$m Financial assets Seven Energy warrants note 15 31 December 2013 11 Receivable under the Berantai RSC pg 166 31 December 2013 476 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 31 December 2013 200 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 24 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 4 Assets for which fair values are disclosed note 32 : Cash and short-term deposits 31 December 2013 617 Restricted cash 31 December 2013 5 Financial liabilities Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 2 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated 31 December 2013 11 Interest rate swaps 31 December 2013 2 Oil derivative 31 December 2013 1 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed note 32 : Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes 31 December 2013 750 Revolving credit facility 31 December 2013 444 Project financing 31 December 2013 138 Bank overdrafts 31 December 2013 32 Finance lease creditors 31 December 2013 15 Contingent consideration 31 December 2013 2 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 151 Annual report and accounts 2014 18 Inventories 2014 2013 US$m US$m Crude oil 3 4 Stores and spares 12 12 Raw materials 1 16 16 Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$73m 2013: US$43m.
19 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cost and estimated earnings 15,892 14,244 Less: billings 14,290 12,771 Work in progress 1,602 1,473 Billings 5,638 5,690 Less: cost and estimated earnings 5,373 5,436 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 265 254 Total cost and estimated earnings 21,265 19,680 Total billings 19,928 18,461 20 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,680 1,294 Retentions receivables 344 254 Advances 275 216 Prepayments and deposits 47 70 Receivables from joint venture partners 196 314 Other receivables 241 212 2,783 2,360 Other receivables mainly consist of Value Added Tax recoverable of US$140m 2013: US$130m, US$34m receivable from PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited relating to disposal of 80% of the share capital of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited note 4f.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables totalling US$1,684m 2013: US$1,299m are as follows: 2014 2013 Specific General Specific General impairment impairment Total impairment impairment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4 1 5 2 1 3 Charge for the year 1 1 2 2 Amounts written off 2 2 At 31 December 2 2 4 4 1 5 Petrofac 152 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Trade and other receivables continued At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Number of days past due Neither past due nor 30 3160 6190 91120 121360 360 impaired days days days days days days Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unimpaired 1,228 285 74 15 21 37 15 1,675 Impaired 1 1 1 4 2 9 1,228 285 75 16 22 41 17 1,684 Less: impairment provision 2 2 4 Net trade receivables 2014 1,228 285 75 16 22 39 15 1,680 Unimpaired 532 586 91 23 8 31 6 1,277 Impaired 7 6 9 22 532 586 91 23 15 37 15 1,299 Less: impairment provision 1 1 3 5 Net trade receivables 2013 532 586 91 23 14 36 12 1,294 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to externally prepared customer credit reports and the historic payment track records of the counterparties.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the Groups subcontractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Receivables from joint venture partners are amounts recoverable from venture partners on the FPSO Berantai, Block PM304 and Petrofac Emirates on an engineering, procurement and construction project.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, and will be largely paid in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
21 Cash and short-term deposits 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 899 506 Short-term deposits 87 111 Total cash and bank balances 986 617 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$986m 2013: US$617m.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 899 506 Short-term deposits 87 111 Bank overdrafts note 26 9 32 977 585 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 153 Annual report and accounts 2014 22 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2013: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 15 15 Issued and fully paid 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2013: 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 7 7 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$ 0.020 each at 1 January 2013 345,891,490 Issued during the year as further contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 21,257 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2014 345,912,747 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2014 345,912,747 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
Share premium: The balance on the share premium account represents the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve: The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregated nominal value of the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
23 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under the Groups employee share schemes, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2014 2013 Number US$m Number US$m At 1 January 5,672,691 110 5,466,213 100 Acquired during the year 1,000,000 25 2,300,000 47 Vested during the year 1,686,754 34 2,093,522 37 At 31 December 4,985,937 101 5,672,691 110 Shares vested during the year include dividend shares and 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger of 102,514 shares 2013: 153,408 shares.
24 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, share awards are granted to Executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the Group.
The shares vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined market and non-market-based performance conditions.
The 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group compared with an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 2014 22 Mar 2013 18 Apr 2013 24 May 2013 2012 2011 awards awards awards awards awards awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator Groups three-year volatilities 32.7% 34.6% 34.7% 33.9% 38.0% 51.0% Share price correlation with comparator Group 40.4% 44.0% 44.3% 42.0% 46.0% 43.0% Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% 1.7% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 827p 692p 492p 571p 1,103p 788p Petrofac 154 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Share-based payment plans continued The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of the remaining 50% of the total award is subject to achieving between 7.5% and 15% earnings per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated, based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Under the DBSP selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Invested Award.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares, typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary.
At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until the Remuneration Committee has approved the portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the portion of the bonus to be settled in shares is determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the Matching Shares are recognised over the corresponding vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant with the charge adjusted to reflect the expected vesting rate of the plan.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Employees may invest up to sterling 1,800 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on an ad hoc basis.
The RSP is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The fair values of the awards granted under the RSP at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Value Creation Plan VCP During 2012 the Company introduced a one-off Value Creation Plan VCP which is a share option scheme for Executive Directors and key senior executives within the Company.
VCP is a premium priced share option scheme with options granted with an exercise price set at a 10% premium to the grant date price.
Options will vest to the extent of satisfying Group and divisional profit after tax targets, together with various other performance underpins and risk malus provisions that can be imposed at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The share options vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the original grant date but may be exercised up to eight years from the date of grant.
The average share price of the Company shares during 2014 was US$19.19 sterling equivalent of 11.65.
The number of outstanding shares excludes the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger and dividend shares shown below: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number EnQuest 8% uplift 318 318 384 916 702 1,234 Dividend shares 72,514 74,196 202,781 155,741 14,873 17,992 290,168 247,929 Outstanding at 31 December 72,514 74,196 203,099 156,059 15,257 18,908 290,870 249,163 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The charge in respect of share-based payment plans recognised in the consolidated income statement is as follows: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share based payment charge credit 1 19 14 3 3 1 22 15 Represents charge on Matching Shares only.
The Group has recognised a total charge of US$22m 2013: US$15m in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$24m of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2013 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2012 bonus of US$22m.
The increase in the share based payments charge compared with the previous year is due to there being a significant decrease in 2013 in the expected future vesting rates of the Performance Share Plans and the Value Creation Plan which resulted in IFRS 2 cost credits being recognised.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 101, 106-109 and 111 of the Directors remuneration report.
Petrofac 156 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Other reserves Net unrealised Foreign Reserve for gains losses currency share-based on derivatives translation payments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 January 2013 25 63 38 Foreign currency translation 4 4 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 1 1 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 29 29 Share-based payments charge note 24 15 15 Transfer during the year note 24 22 22 Shares vested during the year 34 34 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 2 2 Balance at 1 January 2014 28 29 64 63 Foreign currency translation 22 22 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 14 14 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 21 21 Share-based payments charge note 24 22 22 Transfer during the year note 24 24 24 Shares vested during the year 33 33 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2014 7 51 76 18 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 6 51 76 31 Non-controlling interests 13 13 Balance at 31 December 2014 7 51 76 18 Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges is included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net gains amounting to US$8m 2013: US$1m net gain relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales.
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains on un-designated derivatives amounting to US$10m 2013: US$nil have been recognised in cost of sales.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2013 of US$24m 2012 bonus of US$22m which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 24.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 157 Annual report and accounts 2014 26 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Effective interest 2014 2013 Actual interest rate % Actual interest rate % rate % Maturity US$m US$m Current Bank overdrafts i UK LIBOR UK LIBOR UK LIBOR on demand 9 32 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% US LIBOR US LIBOR US LIBOR 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% Other loans: Current portion of project financing v n a US LIBOR US LIBOR 2.70% 2.70% n a 21 9 53 Non-current Senior notes ii 3.40% 3.40% 3.68% 4 years 750 750 Term Loan iii US LIBOR n a US LIBOR 0.85% 0.85% 2 years 500 Revolving credit facility RCF iv US LIBOR US LIBOR US LIBOR 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 3 years 475 444 Project financing v n a US LIBOR 2.70% n a n a 117 1,725 1,311 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 13 17 Discount on senior notes issuance 2 3 1,710 1,291 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,719 1,344 Details of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US dollars and sterling denominations to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
ii Senior notes Petrofac has an outstanding aggregate principal amount of US$750m Senior Notes due in 2018 Notes.
The Group pays interest on the Notes at an annual rate equal to 3.40% of the outstanding principal amount.
Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with the Companys other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Petrofac International Ltd and Petrofac International UAE LLC irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, the due and prompt payment of all amounts at any time becoming due and payable in respect of the Notes.
The Guarantees are senior unsecured obligations of each Guarantor and will rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of each Guarantor.
iii Term Loan On 31 August 2014, Petrofac entered into a US$ 500m 2 year term loan facility with a syndicate of 5 international banks.
The facility, which matures on 31 August 2016, is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
Petrofac was in compliance with these covenants for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The loan was fully drawn as of 31 December 2014 2013: Nil.
Interest is payable on the facility at LIBOR 0.85%.
iv Revolving Credit Facility Petrofac has a US$1,200m 5 year committed revolving credit facility with a syndicate of international banks, which is available for general corporate purposes.
The facility, which matures on 11 September 2017, is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
As at 31 December 2014, US$475m was drawn under this facility 2013: US$444m.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance of the facility at LIBOR 1.5% and in addition utilisation fees are payable depending on the level of utilisation.
Petrofac 158 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued v Project financing As a result of the disposal of 80% of Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited, the project financing related to the Berantai FPSO was transferred to PetroFirst Infrastructure Holdings Limited in August 2014 and is no longer shown in the Groups accounts note 4f.
Fees relating to the Groups financing arrangements have been capitalised and are being amortised over the term of the respective borrowings.
None of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
27 Provisions Other long-term employment Provision for Other benefits provision decommissioning provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 63 33 4 100 Additions during the year 20 100 2 122 Paid in the year 13 13 Unwinding of discount 13 4 At 1 January 2014 71 136 6 213 Additions during the year 19 47 66 Paid in the year 11 11 Exchange difference 1 1 Unwinding of discount 6 6 At 31 December 2014 79 189 5 273 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in the United Arab Emirates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment based on their final salary and number of years service.
The long-term employment benefits provision is based on an internally produced end of service benefits valuation model with the key underlying assumptions being as follows: Senior Other employees employees Average number of years of future service 53 Average annual % salary increases 6% 4% Discount factor 5% 5% Senior employees are those earning a base of salary of over US$96,000 per annum.
Discount factor used is the local Dubai five-year Sukuk rate.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the sites at the PM304 field in Malaysia, Chergui in Tunisia and Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico.
Additions during the year were in relation to PM304 field in Malaysia.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 4.28% on PM304 2013: 4.16%, 6.00% on Chergui 2013: 5.25% and 5.38% on Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts 2013: 5.86%.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as finance cost note 6.
The Group estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2026 on PM304, 2031 on Chergui, 2033 on Santuario and Magallanes, 2038 on Arenque and 2030 on Pnuco Production Enhancement Contracts.
Other provisions This represents amounts set aside to cover claims against the Group which will be settled via the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 159 Annual report and accounts 2014 28 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade payables 564 629 Advances received from customers 975 444 Accrued expenses 921 982 Other taxes payable 46 44 Other payables 164 197 2,670 2,296 Advances received from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Other payables mainly consist of retentions held against subcontractors of US$78m 2013: US$73m and payable to joint venture partners of US$35m 2013: US$50m.
US$298m was reclassified from trade payables to accrued expenses in the comparative year to conform to current year presentation.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
29 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the Group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had letters of credit of US$10m 2013: US$29m and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds of US$4,211m 2013: US$3,602m against which the Group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$9m 2013: US$5m.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$2,276m 2013: US$1,273m.
These commitments consist of future obligations either to acquire or to sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 32.
Leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Within one year 25 33 After one year but not more than five years 69 73 More than five years 74 89 168 195 Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of office buildings in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$115m 2013: US$120m.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$44m 2013: US$44m.
Long-term finance lease commitments are as follows: Future minimum lease payments Finance cost Present value US$m US$m US$m Land, buildings and leasehold improvements The commitments are as follows: Within one year 343 109 234 After one year but not more than five years 785 281 504 More than five years 326 92 234 1,454 482 972 The finance leased assets mainly comprise oil and gas facilities in Berantai RSC and Block PM304 in Malaysia, the lease term for such leases range between 4 years to 10 years.
The above finance lease commitments include 70% gross up of US$546m on finance leases in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to block PM304 in Malaysia.
Petrofac 160 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Commitments and contingencies continued Capital commitments At 31 December 2014, the Group had capital commitments of US$1,034m 2013: US$942m excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the US$1,034m of commitments are: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Building of the Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel 392 489 Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico 229 390 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 192 20 Costs in respect of Ithaca Greater Stella Field development in the North Sea 193 41 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new training centre in Oman 28 30 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 33.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed owed related from by related to related parties related parties parties parties US$m US$m US$m US$m Joint ventures 2014 1 3 2013 1 7 5 3 Associates 2014 1 2013 Key management personnel interests 2014 2013 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of key management personnel interests in 2013 included US$264,000 reflecting the costs of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and Directors of the Group on company business, which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Group Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary.
The charter rates charged for Group usage of the aeroplane were significantly less than comparable market rates.
No similar related party transactions took place during 2014.
Also included in purchases in respect of key management personnel interests is US$26,000 2013: US$138,000 relating to client entertainment provided by a business owned by a member of the Groups key management.
Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 96 to 112.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 12 17 Share-based payments 3 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 16 18 31 Accrued contract expenses 2014 2013 US$m US$m Accrued contract expenses 743 836 Reserve for contract losses 57 800 836 The reserve for contract losses includes provision to cover costs in excess of revenues on a contract of US$27m and a provision for an onerous contract of US$30m relating to Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania note 5.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 161 Annual report and accounts 2014 32 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, amounts due from to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally forward currency contracts in line with the Groups hedging policies.
The Group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the Group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 84 to 95.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point point point point increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2014 9 9 31 December 2013 5 5 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2014 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 26 9 9 Term loans note 26 500 475 975 9 500 475 984 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 21 986 986 Restricted cash balances note 16 8 1 9 994 1 995 Petrofac 162 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended 31 December 2013 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 26 32 32 Term loans note 26 21 22 23 467 24 25 582 53 22 23 467 24 25 614 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 21 617 617 Restricted cash balances note 16 4 1 5 621 1 622 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs, effective interest rate adjustments and discount on senior notes of US$15m 2013: US$20m.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US dollar reporting currency of the Group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US dollar terms, of the Group totals.
2014 2013 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 26.5% 32.4% Costs 56.5% 45.0% Current financial assets 33.6% 33.1% Non-current financial assets 0.0% 1.0% Current financial liabilities 36.4% 22.2% Non-current financial liabilities 1.3% 0.0% The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US dollars: 2014 2013 Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Sterling 1.65 1.55 1.57 1.66 Kuwaiti dinar 3.51 3.42 3.52 3.54 Euro 1.33 1.21 1.33 1.37 The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US 10% US 10% US 10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2014 9 9 85 85 31 December 2013 34 34 66 66 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 163 Annual report and accounts 2014 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December, the Group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro purchases 643 561 14 22 22 26 Sterling purchases sales 394 349 11 1 4 3 4 Kuwaiti dinars sales 313 Yen sales 3 3 11 15 26 25 30 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2015 and June 2019 2013: between January 2014 and November 2015.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with net unrealised losses of US$2m 2013: US$1m gain as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro cash and short-term deposits 22 32 2 1 During 2014, changes in fair value loss of US$50m 2013: gains US$32m relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and gains of US$8m 2013: US$1m were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on un-designated derivatives of US$10m 2013: US$nil were recognised in the income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil and gas.
The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecast production data is available.
During the year the Group entered into various crude oil swaps hedging oil production of 608,999 barrels bbl 2013: 323,657 bbl with maturities ranging from January 2015 to December 2015.
In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 46,260 metric tonnes MT 2013: 35,147MT with maturities from January 2015 to December 2015.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2014 was an asset of US$20m 2013: US$1m liability with net unrealised gains deferred in equity of US$20m 2013: US$1m loss.
During the year, US$6m gain 2013: US$nil was recycled from equity into the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions and a gain in the fair value recognised in equity of US$27m 2013: US$1m loss.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 30 30 30 30 US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2014 18 18 31 December 2013 3 3 9 9 For sensitivity relating to the impact of changes in the oil price on other financial assets, refer to pages 166 and 167. Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC evaluates the creditworthiness of each individual third-party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups five largest customers accounted for 48.7% of outstanding trade receivables, retention receivables, work in progress, receivable under Berantai RSC and receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 2013: 49.3%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, short and long term receivables from customers including the Berantai RSC and Greater Stella Area projects, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Petrofac 164 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Risk management and financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to support future growth.
Our strategy includes the provision of financial capital and the potential impact on the Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
The Group is not exposed to any external capital constraints.
The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2014 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 9 500 1,225 1,734 1,719 Finance lease creditors 225 118 243 542 326 1,454 972 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,307 342 1,649 1,649 Due to related parties 3 3 3 Contingent consideration 1 1 1 Derivative instruments 47 24 13 8 92 92 Interest payments 25 25 49 62 161 1,616 510 805 1,837 326 5,094 4,436 Year ended 31 December 2013 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 42 11 22 1,264 25 1,364 1,344 Finance lease creditors 10 6 16 15 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,760 48 1,808 1,808 Due to related parties 3 3 3 Contingent consideration 1 1 2 2 Derivative instruments 13 1 14 14 Interest payments 20 19 38 101 1 179 1,848 86 61 1,365 26 3,386 3,186 The Group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash and short-term deposits 986 617 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 1,719 1,344 Net debt B 733 727 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 1,861 1,989 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 120 650 Gross gearing ratio A C 92.4% 67.6% Net gearing ratio B C 39.4% 36.6% Shareholders return on investment D C 6.4% 32.7% Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 165 Annual report and accounts 2014 Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the Groups statement of financial position are set out below: Carrying amount Fair value 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits 986 617 986 617 Restricted cash 9 5 9 5 Seven Energy warrants note 15 11 11 Available-for-sale investment 185 185 Receivable under Berantai RSC 381 476 381 476 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area, net of fair value changes 192 200 192 200 Oil derivative 20 20 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 77 24 77 24 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 4 4 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes 743 742 750 750 Term Loan 498 500 Revolving credit facility 469 435 475 444 Project financing 135 138 Bank overdrafts 9 32 9 32 Finance lease creditors 972 15 972 15 Contingent consideration 1 2 1 2 Interest rate swaps 2 2 Oil derivative 1 1 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 91 2 91 2 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 1 1 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated 11 11 The Group considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and noncurrent financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly foreign exchange forward contracts and oil derivatives.
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets, forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and oil derivatives.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease creditors are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
Petrofac 166 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Risk management and financial instruments continued The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC note 17 has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model.
The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about unobservable inputs to the model, the oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 12, other significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the table below: 2014 2013 Internal rate of return 11.5% 15.0% Discount rate 6.0% 6.0% Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC is only sensitive to a reasonable change in the internal rate of return and the discount rate.
The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the receivable as a result of changes to these inputs: 2014 2013 US$m US$m 100 basis points decrease in the internal rate of return 1 16 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 2 10 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 2 10 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the receivable under Berantai RSC: US$m US$m As at 1 January 2014 476 389 Billings during the year 65 118 Fair value loss gain included in revenue 3 16 Fair value loss on contract receivables note 5 43 Unwinding of discount 20 23 Receipts during the year 134 70 As at 31 December 2014 381 476 The fair value of the available-for-sale investment note 17 has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model.
The oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 12, the risk adjusted cash flow projections are discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0% The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the available-for-sale investment as a result of changes to these inputs: 2014 2013 US$m US$m 10% decrease in the oil price per barrel 4 10% increase in the oil price per barrel 4 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 14 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 14 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the available-for-sale investment: US$m US$m Transferred from investment in associate 185 Fair value change As at 31 December 2014 185 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 167 Annual report and accounts 2014 The fair value of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area note 17 has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model that represents the value which management expects would be converted to oil and gas assets upon transfer of legal title of the licence on achieving first oil.
The oil price assumptions used are the same as disclosed in note 12, the risk adjusted cash flow projections are discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.0%.
The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area as a result of changes to these inputs: 2014 2013 US$m US$m 10% decrease in the oil price per barrel and gas per mcf 59 10% increase in the oil price per barrel and gas per mcf 57 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 19 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 17 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area: US$m US$m As at 1 January 2014 200 115 Advances during the year to the partners 199 85 Fair value loss note 5 207 As at 31 December 2014 192 200 Petrofac 168 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements At 31 December 2014, the Group had investments in the following subsidiaries and joint arrangements: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Trading subsidiaries Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 K W Limited England 100 100 Oilennium Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Contracting Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 100 TNEI Services Limited England 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 1 1 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 100 PT.
Petrofac IKPT International Indonesia 51 51 1 1 Petrofac Integrated Energy Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments West Africa Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPF004 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac GSA Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac JSD 6000 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrokyrgyzstan Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Training Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 PFMAP Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 169 Annual report and accounts 2014 Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Trading subsidiaries continued SPD Well Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 H&L SPD Americas S. fide R. L. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Servicios SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Operadora fide Campos del Noreste S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Global Employment B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Cooperatief U.
A. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Treasury B. V. Netherlands 100 100 PTS B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan Ventures B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Nigeria B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Norge B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Oman B. V. formerly Petrofac Russia B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Energy Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 2 Petrofac International Nigeria Limited Nigeria 40 100 Petrofac Holdings AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S. R. L Romania 100 100 2 2 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 100 100 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Company Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 100 SPD Limited Scotland 100 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100 1 1 Petrofac South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac International South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 100 100 2 Petrofac Emirates LLC note 11 United Arab Emirates 75 49 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 2 2 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 49 49 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC United States 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Inc. United States 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. United States 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 100 Petrofac 170 Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Dormant subsidiaries KW Norge AS Norway 100 100 i Perform Limited Scotland 100 100 Joint Venture International Limited Scotland 100 100 Montrose Park Hotels Limited Scotland 100 RGIT Ethos Health & Safety Limited Scotland 100 Rubicon Response Limited Scotland 100 100 Scota Limited Scotland 100 Petrofac Training Trinidad Limited Trinidad 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Inc United States 100 100 Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Country of Name of joint arrangement Principal Activities incorporation 2014 2013 Joint Arrangements Joint ventures MJVI Sdn Bhd Dormant Brunei 50 50 Costain Petrofac Limited Dormant England 50 50 Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited Dormant Jersey 50 50 TTE Petrofac Limited Operation and management of a training Jersey 50 50 centre China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Consultancy for Petroleum and chemical Netherlands 49 49 Cooperatif U.
A. engineering Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company Operation of service centre providing Saudi Arabia 50 50 mechanical services to oil and gas industry KGNT Petrofac Kazakhstan LLP Dormant Kazakhstan 50 Takatuf Petrofac Oman LLC Construction, operation and management Oman 40 of a training centre Joint operations 3 3 PetroAlfa Servicios Integrados fide Energia SAPI fide CV Services to oil and gas industry Mexico 50 50 4 4 Petro-SPM Integrated Services S. A. fide C. V. Production enhancement for Pnuco Mexico 50 50 6 6 Petrofac ABB Lummus JV Dormant Unincorporated 50 50 6 6 Bechtel Petrofac JV Feasibility study for a project in UAE Unincorporated 15 15 6 6 Petrofac Daelim JV EPC for a project in Oman Unincorporated 50 50 6 6 Petrofac Bonatti JV EPC for a project in Algeria Unincorporated 70 70 6 6 NGL 4 JV EPC for a project in UAE Unincorporated 45 45 6 Petrofac Samsung CB&I CFP EPC for a project in Kuwait Unincorporated 47 1 Directly held by Petrofac Limited.
2 Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
3 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement, whereby the activities of the arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the venturers, this indicates that the venturers have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets of the arrangement.
4 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers to be jointly and severally liable for performance under Pnuco ISC.
5 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers that gives rights to assets and obligation for liabilities of the joint arrangement to the venturers.
6 The unincorporated arrangement between the venturers is a joint arrangement, as contractually, all the decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent by the venturers.
The Companys interest in joint ventures is disclosed on page 148.
