Directors Remuneration Report Continued Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering the executive directors remuneration.
When considering base salary increases, the Remuneration Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to other employees.
Employees are not actively consulted on directors remuneration.
The Company has regular contact with union bodies on matters of pay and remuneration for employees covered by collective bargaining or consultation arrangements.
Existing contractual arrangements The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office outside the policy in this report: where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect: where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Company: or to satisfy contractual commitments under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, the term payments includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Remuneration Committees discretion includes discretion to determine matters in accordance with the rules of the 2003 LTIP, including the extent to which awards under that plan may vest on the fulfilment of performance conditions, in the event of the voluntary winding up of the Company, on a change of control, on the death of a participant, and in good leaver circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy which do not have a material advantage to directors, to aid in its operation or implementation, taking into account the interests of shareholders but without the need to seek shareholder approval.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on executive and nonexecutive directors remuneration.
Prior to the new LTIP being formally put to shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has engaged with major shareholders and institutional investor bodies setting out the proposals and the detailed thinking and planning behind them.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
