Explanatory Note on Adoption of Two New Share Schemes The principal terms of the 2014 SAYE and the 2014 LTIP are summarised below.
A copy of the proposed share schemes may be inspected at the addresses specified in note 14 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
2014 SAYE Adopting a new Save As You Earn SAYE scheme gives the Company an opportunity to ensure the rules are consistent with changes to the governing tax legislation which have been made by Finance Act 2013 and which are expected to be made by Finance Act 2014.
The proposed new scheme rules the 2014 SAYE reflect these changes.
However, the Finance Bill 2014 is currently before Parliament and is not expected to be enacted until July 2014: for that reason the resolution to adopt the 2014 SAYE is conditional on the Finance Act 2014 making the expected changes to the law governing SAYE schemes.
Background and operation The 2014 SAYE will replace for new options granted the Companys current scheme the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Share Savings Scheme 2005 the 2005 SAYE.
The last share options granted under the 2005 SAYE were granted on 1 January 2013, and become exercisable on 1 January 2018.
The board of directors of the Company the Board has recommended that this is an appropriate time for a new scheme, which will run for ten years, to be adopted.
The Board will supervise the operation of the 2014 SAYE.
It is intended that any future option grants will be made under the 2014 SAYE and not under the 2005 SAYE.
The 2014 SAYE allows the Company to grant U. K. tax-advantaged options under the SAYE legislation.
In broad terms, a SAYE scheme allows the Company to grant options to employees and executive directors who enter into a savings arrangement over a number of years either three or five, with the savings eventually used to fund the option exercise price which may be set at a permitted discount with no income tax on the gain, provided the terms of the legislation and the scheme are complied with.
Previously, the approval of HM Revenue and Customs HMRC to a SAYE scheme would have been required, however the HMRC approval process no longer exists for schemes adopted on or after 6 April 2014.
Any reference in this note or in the 2014 SAYE to approval is a reference to approval by the shareholders and the approval date occurs when both of the following have occurred i the shareholders have approved the adoption of the 2014 LTIP and ii any conditions to which that approval was subject have been met.
Eligibility Any employee or executive director of the Company subject to meeting any qualifying period of service set by the Board, not to exceed 5 years will be eligible to participate in the 2014 SAYE.
Grant of options The Board may issue invitations to apply for options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Board may also issue invitations to apply for options within six weeks of the approval date of the 2014 SAYE.
If at any such time as mentioned above, the Board would be prohibited from granting options due to any statute, regulation or directive, the Company may issue invitations within six weeks of that prohibition ceasing.
In the case of applications exceeding the number of shares the Board has determined will be available shares, the Board will scale back applications following the process in the 2014 SAYE rules before granting options.
Options may not be granted more than 10 years after the approval date of the 2014 SAYE.
No payment is required for the grant of an option.
Options are not transferable or pensionable.
Individual participation An individuals maximum monthly contribution to all savings contracts cannot exceed the maximum permitted by SAYE legislation from time to time 500 once Finance Act 2014 is in force and an individuals proposed contributions may be scaled back by the Board in the case of applications exceeding available shares.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Option price The price per ordinary share payable upon exercise of an option is to be set by the Board when invitations are issued and must not be less than 80% of the market value of a share determined from the average of the middle market quotations of a share on the five dealing days immediately before the invitation date, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
If the option is to be satisfied by way of issue of shares, the exercise price cannot be set at less than the nominal value of a share.
Exercise of options Options will normally become capable of exercise within six months of the maturity of the three or five year savings contract, and provided the participant remains employed in the Companys group.
Options will usually lapse six months after the maturity of the savings contract, or sooner on the occurrence of certain corporate events or in the event that the participant ceases to hold employment within the Companys group subject to certain exceptions, details of which are set out in the following paragraphs.
Options will lapse if a person ceases to or fails on seven occasions to make the monthly contributions under the savings contract or is adjudicated bankrupt.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an option will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment within the Companys group.
However, if, after holding the option for at least three years, a participant ceases for any reason to be an employee in the Companys group, the participant may exercise the option within six months.
If, regardless of how long the option has been held, employment ceases by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or his or her employing company or the business for which he or she works being sold out of the Companys group, then the option becomes exercisable for a period of six months.
A difference between the 2014 SAYE and the 2005 SAYE is that the 2005 SAYE allowed exercise upon a participant reaching the specified age.
This is no longer permissible under the legislation governing SAYE schemes, instead schemes must provide that retirement at whatever age is an exercise trigger.
If the cessation of employment is due to a participants death, the legal personal representatives of the participant may exercise the option within either i twelve months of the date of death or ii twelve months of the maturity date of the savings contract if the savings contract has matured as at the date of death.
Corporate events On a takeover by way of general offer or scheme of arrangement, reconstruction or amalgamation or voluntary winding up of the Company, options will be exercisable for a period of six months.
The six month period for exercise will be shortened if during the process of a take-over by general offer, a person becomes bound or entitled to acquire shares in the Company: in such a case the option will only be exercisable for the period that the person is so bound or entitled.
An option may be exercised up to seven days before a change of control by way of a general offer occurs.
This is a new permitted exercise trigger to be brought in by Finance Act 2014, and therefore the 2005 SAYE does not include this exercise right.
Similarly, there is a new permitted exercise trigger which has been included in the 2014 SAYE which allows an option to be exercised if as a result of the change of control of the Company, the shares under option will cease to meet the SAYE legislative requirements: a seven day exercise window is allowed in such cases.
In the event of a takeover by way of general offer or a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement, reconstruction or amalgamation, options may at the choice of the option holder and with the agreement of the acquiring company be replaced by equivalent options over shares in the acquiring company provided this is done within six months.
Any option not exercised or replaced on the occurrence of such corporate events will lapse.
Adjustment of options On a variation in the Companys share capital, the Board may adjust the number or description of shares under option and the price payable per share.
Previously, such adjustments to a SAYE scheme would have required the prior approval of HMRC, however the HMRC approval process has now been removed and instead the legislation under changes to be brought in by the Finance Act 2014 requires the adjustments must be such that the total amount to be paid under the option and the value of the shares to be acquired judged as at the time of adjustment is the same before and after the adjustments.
Overall 2014 SAYE limits The 2014 SAYE may operate over newly issued ordinary shares, treasury shares or ordinary shares purchased in the market or transferred from one of the Companys employee benefit trusts.
In practice, the Board currently anticipates that the shares required to satisfy the options will be transferred from a trust.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 Explanatory Note on Adoption of Two New Share Schemes Continued In any 10 year period, the Company may not grant options giving a right to subscribe for shares which would exceed 10% of the issued shares of the Company as at the date of option grant when the total number of shares under those options and under all other share option or share acquisition schemes operated by the Company which have been granted other than any which have lapsed are taken into account.
Adjustments to the 2014 SAYE The Board may amend the rules of the 2014 SAYE, or, as necessary, make regulations for the administration of the 2014 SAYE.
Shareholders in general meeting must give prior approval to amendments to the 2014 SAYE if the amendment would be to the advantage of existing or future participants.
However, no such approval is needed for amendments to benefit the administration of the 2014 SAYE, to take account of a change in law or to obtain or maintain favourable tax or regulatory treatment.
Prior consent or sanction of the participants who hold options is required applying the provisions in the Articles regarding the alteration of class rights to determine the form of the consent or sanction required for any amendments to the 2014 SAYE if the amendment would materially prejudice their interests.
No consent of shareholders or participants is required if the amendment is necessary or desirable to comply with or take account of legislation, a take-over, reconstruction or winding up.
No amendments can be made if they are to key features of the 2014 SAYE and the effect of such amendment would be to cause the 2014 SAYE to cease to qualify under the legislation governing SAYE schemes.
The Board has discretion to decide not to issue any further invitations or options or to terminate the 2014 SAYE at any time, without prejudice to existing options.
2014 LTIP The Companys previous LTIP the 2003 LTIP was approved by shareholders in May 2003, and had a ten year life-span for the granting of awards and therefore no further awards can now be granted under it.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has undertaken a review of the remuneration policy for the executive directors, and it and the Board recommends the adoption of a new LTIP the 2014 LTIP.
Background and operation The 2014 LTIP will have a ten year life-span from the date of adoption for awards and options to be granted under it.
The Committee will supervise the operation of the 2014 LTIP.
An award may be granted under the 2014 LTIP in conjunction with an option under the Companys tax approved 2010 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS on terms that the 2014 LTIP award will be scaled back at exercise to reflect any gain made on the exercise of the ESOS option.
These Approved LTIP awards enable the participant and the Company to benefit from the favourable tax treatment associated with tax approved options.
Eligibility Any employee or executive director of the Company or any company in its group is eligible if selected by the Committee.
Grant of awards The Company acting on the directions of the Committee may grant awards as conditional share awards or as options either of these being an Award.
The Committee anticipates that any such option would usually have a nil or nominal exercise price.
Awards may be granted within six weeks following the Companys adoption of the 2014 LTIP, announcement of its results for any period or implementation of a new remuneration policy.
The Committee may also grant Awards at any other time when it considers there are exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of Awards.
Awards may not be granted more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the 2014 LTIP.
Awards are not transferable or pensionable.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Individual limit Ordinarily, Awards will not be granted to a participant in respect of any financial year under the 2014 LTIP over shares with a market value in excess of 125% of the participants annual base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, this limit may be increased to 200% of annual base salary.
Where an Approved LTIP award is granted as described above, any shares subject to the tax approved option granted under the ESOS will not count towards these limits at grant: at exercise the extent to which the 2014 LTIP Award can be exercised shall be scaled back to reflect any gain made on exercise of the ESOS option so that the total pre-tax value delivered to the participant does not exceed the value of an ordinary 2014 LTIP award granted to him at the relevant level.
The limits will not take into account any dividend equivalents awarded see below as to dividend equivalents.
Vesting of awards Awards are to be subject to performance conditions which will be tested in respect of a performance period.
The performance conditions shall be determined together with the respective weighting of each condition if more than one condition applies by the Committee based on the Companys strategic priorities at the time of grant.
The performance conditions for Awards to be granted in 2014 are described in the Companys Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 26 January 2014.
The performance period will normally be a period of at least three years.
Once the performance period has passed, the extent to which an Award vests will be determined by the Committee.
Ordinarily, awards will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, or such earlier date as the Committee shall determine.
Vesting may also occur earlier on certain events such as the individual leaving employment or certain corporate events as described further under the relevant headings below.
Any performance condition may be amended or substituted if one or more events occur which cause the Committee to consider that an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate.
Any amended or substituted performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Awards granted in the form of options will usually be capable of exercise from the date on which they vest until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant or such earlier date as the Committee shall determine.
Awards may also lapse on certain events such as the individual leaving employment or certain corporate events as described further under the relevant headings below.
Dividend equivalents The Committee may decide that participants will receive additional shares on vesting exercise which have a value equivalent to the dividends that have been paid on vested shares over the period from grant until the vesting date.
Cash alternative The Committee may determine in its discretion that participants will receive an amount of cash on the vesting of their Awards which is equivalent to the value of the vested shares and or equivalent to the value of any dividend equivalents rather than satisfying either or both of these in shares.
Leaving employment Awards will normally lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a director within the Companys group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee and or director as applicable because of their death, ill-health, injury, disability, their employing company or the business for which they work being sold out of the Companys group or any other reason determined by the Committee in its discretion as being relevant, then their Award may vest if the Committee so decides.
The Committee will decide whether an Award will vest at the date of cessation or will continue and vest on the originally anticipated vesting date.
In either case, the number of shares in respect of which the Award vests will ordinarily be determined taking into account the extent to which the performance condition is satisfied at termination or the end of the performance period as appropriate and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of termination.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to determine the number of shares in respect of which an Award vests on another basis which it considers reasonable in all the circumstances.
If a participant ceases employment as a good leaver after an award granted in the form of an option has vested but before it has been exercised, the option may be exercised in the period of six months after the participant ceases employment or 12 months in the event of death.
Corporate events In the event of a reconstruction or takeover before the performance period is complete, the Committee will determine the extent to which Awards vest, taking into account the extent to which the performance condition has been met and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, the Committee may decide to allow or require Awards to be replaced by new awards which are equivalent in the Committees opinion over shares in another company or companies.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 Explanatory Note on Adoption of Two New Share Schemes Continued Any Award which has not or to the extent it has not vested or been replaced on such corporate events will lapse.
Any option which has vested but not been exercised or to the extent it has not will lapse at the expiry of the time-frame set by the Committee for the participant to exercise their option or accept a replacement award.
If there is a reconstruction or takeover after an award granted in the form of an option has vested but before it has been exercised, the option may be exercised during the period set by the Committee.
If a variation to the share capital of the Company, a demerger, special dividend or other similar corporate event occurs which might affect the current or future value of an Award the Committee may adjust the Award.
Malus The Committee may decide, up until the Awards have been satisfied the Payment Date, that an Award shall be reduced or cancelled or made subject to additional conditions including amending performance conditions or performance periods or deferring the vesting date if i there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results which has resulted in an overpayment or award to participants whether under the LTIP or not or ii if the participant has engaged in misconduct between the date of the Award and the Payment Date.
Overall 2014 LTIP limits The 2014 LTIP may operate over newly issued ordinary shares, treasury shares or ordinary shares purchased in the market or transferred from one of the Companys employee benefit trusts.
The 2014 LTIP shall be operated so that, in any 10 year period, the Company does not issue or grant options or other rights to be issued with shares which ignoring any options or rights which have lapsed exceed i 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under all the Companys share plans: or ii 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under discretionary share plans adopted by the Company.
For these purposes, treasury shares shall be counted as newly issued when they are transferred from treasury for so long as the Committee considers it best practice to do so.
Participants rights Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the Awards have vested and in the case of options been exercised and the participants have received their shares.
Neither the grant of an Award nor vesting of it will confer any entitlement to dividend equivalents as this is at the Committees discretion.
Amendments to the 2014 LTIP The Committee may, in its discretion, amend, vary or add to the rules of the 2014 LTIP in any way.
However, shareholders in general meeting must approve proposed changes which are to the advantage of participants and which relate to eligibility, individual and plan limits, the rights attaching to Awards and shares and the amendment powers.
The Committee can, without shareholder approval, make minor changes to benefit the administration of the plan, to comply with or take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
The Committee may also amend, vary or add to the provisions of the rules of the 2014 LTIP as it considers necessary to take account of overseas taxation, securities or exchange control laws.
The Committee has discretion to terminate the 2014 LTIP at any time, without prejudice to subsisting Awards.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 Statement from KPMG Audit Plc in connection with its ceasing to hold office as auditor The Directors A. G. BARR p. l. c. Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD 11 April 2014 Dear Sirs Statement to A. G. BARR p. l. c. No SC005653 on ceasing to hold office as auditor pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 The circumstances connected with our ceasing to hold office from 27 May 2014 are that our company, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down of its business.
KPMG LLP, our intermediate parent entity, will accept appointment as statutory auditor subject to, and with effect from, the passing of Resolution 13 at the A. G. BARR p. l. c annual general meeting to be held on 27 May 2014.
We request that any correspondence in relation to this statement be sent to our registered office, 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL, marked for the attention of the Audit Regulation Department.
Yours faithfully KPMG Audit Plc A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145
