Explanatory Notes The following notes provide an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the one hundred and tenth annual general meeting the AGM of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 17 and 18 will be proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least threequarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 1 Receive and approve the reports and accounts Shareholders are being asked to receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company as audited by KPMG Audit Plc for the year ended 26 January 2014 together with the associated reports of the directors and auditor.
Resolutions 2 and 3 Directors remuneration Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which took effect on 1 October 2013, the directors remuneration report is now divided into three parts: the annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee, the directors remuneration policy and the directors remuneration report.
The annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee which is set out on pages 49 and 50 of this report provides a summary of the directors remuneration policy and the directors remuneration report.
The directors remuneration policy which is set out on pages 51 to 62 of this report sets out the Companys future policy on directors remuneration.
The directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 63 to 76 of this report gives details of the payments and share awards made to the directors in connection with their and the Companys performance during the year ended 26 January 2014.
It also details how the Companys policy on directors remuneration will be operated in 2014.
Resolution 2 invites shareholders to approve the directors remuneration policy.
This is a binding policy and, after it takes effect, the directors will not be entitled to remuneration unless such remuneration is consistent with the approved policy or shareholders otherwise approve the remuneration.
If Resolution 2 is approved, the policy will take effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Shareholders will be given a binding vote on the directors remuneration policy at least every three years.
Resolution 3 invites shareholders to approve the annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee and the directors remuneration report other than the directors remuneration policy for the year ended 26 January 2014.
Resolution 3 is an advisory vote and will not affect the way in which the Companys pay policy has been implemented.
Each year, shareholders will be given an advisory vote on the implementation of the directors remuneration policy in relation to the payments and share awards made to directors during the year under review.
Resolutions 4 to 12 inclusive Re-election and election of directors The Companys articles of association require that all newly appointed directors retire at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Consequently, Ms Pamela Powell will retire and offer herself for election.
The board of directors of the Company the Board complies with the provisions of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code whereby all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, all other directors of the Company are retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 32 and 33 of this report.
The Board has confirmed that, following formal performance evaluation, all of the directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board therefore unanimously recommends the proposed re-election or election in the case of Ms Pamela Powell of the directors.
Resolution 13 Appointment of auditor KPMG Audit Plc has informed the Company that it has initiated a process to streamline its two registered audit firms, KPMG Audit Plc and its parent entity KPMG LLP, with the result that KPMG Audit Plc will no longer carry out audit services.
As a result, KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that it is not seeking re-appointment.
Consequently, the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company the Board has recommended, and the Board has approved, the resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to approve the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the audit committee of the Board to fix their remuneration.
In connection with the resignation of KPMG Audit Plc, the Company is required to send shareholders a copy of the statement of the circumstances connected with its resignation.
That statement is set out on page 145 of this report.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135
