Payments for loss of office The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are set out below: Policy Payment in lieu of notice Payments to executive directors upon termination of their service contracts will be equal to 12 months base salary or the highest annual rate earned by the executive during the preceding three years, whichever is higher plus benefits in kind and pension contributions at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Bonus This will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors, including the circumstances of the individuals departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus amounts paid will typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will, subject to performance, be paid at the usual time.
2014 LTIP The extent to which any award under the 2014 LTIP will vest would be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the 2014 LTIP rules.
The Remuneration Committee shall determine when awards vest in accordance with those provisions.
Awards will normally lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting.
However, awards may vest in good leaver circumstances, including death, disability, ill-health, injury, sale of the participants employer, or any other reason determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Any good leaver awards will vest at the date of cessation of employment unless the Remuneration Committee decides they should vest at the normal vesting date.
In either case, the extent to which an award vests will be determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from the date of grant to the date of cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
Options are exercisable for six months from leaving employment or six months from the normal vesting date as appropriate.
Change of control Awards under the 2014 LTIP will generally vest early on a takeover, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the level of vesting taking account of performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time, where applicable.
Alternatively, participants may be allowed or required to exchange their awards for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Awards under all employee share schemes will be expected to vest on a change of control and those which have to meet specific requirements to benefit from permitted tax benefits will vest in accordance with those requirements.
Mitigation The executive directors service contracts do not provide for any reduction in payments for mitigation or for early payment.
Other payments Payments may be made under the Companys all employee share plans which are governed by HMRC tax-approved plan rules and which cover certain leaver provisions.
There is no discretionary treatment of leavers under these plans.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement and legal fees.
Where a buy-out award is made under the Listing Rules then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will recognise and balance the interests of shareholders and the departing executive director, as well as the interests of the remaining directors.
Where the Remuneration Committee retains discretion it will be used to provide flexibility in certain situations, taking into account the particular circumstances of the directors departure and performance.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
