Directors Remuneration Report Continued Annual bonus for 2014 15 For the 2014 15 financial year, an element of the annual bonus 20% of basic salary will be assessed against strategic measures to better align our reward structure with key strategic priorities and to encourage behaviours which facilitate profitable growth and the future development of the business.
The remainder of the annual bonus will continue to be assessed against Group profit before tax.
Performance targets will continue to be set at the challenging levels of previous years.
50% of the annual bonus will be earned for on-target performance.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially sensitive at this time.
The targets will be disclosed in next years Directors Remuneration Report or at such point that the Remuneration Committee considers that the performance targets are no longer commercially sensitive.
No changes are proposed to the maximum annual bonus opportunity which will remain at 100% of salary.
Long term incentives audited information Awards vesting in respect of the financial period LTIP awards granted in April 2011 were subject to the achievement of an average EPS growth performance condition over a three year period ending 26 January 2014.
Awards vest if the average EPS for the three years running up to and including the year of calculation exceeds the average EPS of the three years preceding that period, both being adjusted for Retail Price Index RPI, by 10% or more.
EPS is calculated on the basis of profit before tax, adjusted to exclude exceptional items and other significant non-recurring items as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
No part of an award vests if EPS growth is less than 10% above RPI over the three year period.
20% 99.9% of an award vests on a sliding scale where EPS growth exceeds RPI by 10% or more but by less than 32.5%.
100% of an award vests where EPS growth exceeds RPI by 32.5% or more.
The maximum value of any award of shares is 100% of basic salary.
Details of LTIP awards vesting in respect of the financial period are set out below: Year ended 26 January 2014 Share price at 26 January Total shares Award rate Shares awarded 2014 LTIP value Executive Director Number % Number 000 R. A.
