Notes to the Accounts 1 Accounting policies General information A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group manufacture, distribute and sell soft drinks.
The Group has manufacturing sites in the U. K. and sells mainly to customers in the U. K. with some international sales.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland.
The address of its registered office is Westfield House, 4 Mollins Road, Cumbernauld, G68 9HD.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent Company financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
They have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules except for the derivative financial instruments and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at fair value and the liabilities of the Group pension scheme which are valued using the projected unit credit method.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these accounts for the reasons set out in note 29.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed on page 98.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning 27 January 2013 and have had an impact on the previously reported results of the Group: Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation regarding other comprehensive income The main change resulting from these amendments is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently.
The statement of comprehensive income has been re-presented accordingly for all periods shown.
IAS 19 Employee benefits IAS 19 Employee benefits was revised in June 2011 IAS 19R.
The change to the Groups accounting policies has been to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset or liability.
Prior year comparatives have been restated to take account of this change.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
