As disclosed in note 8, the U. K. government has introduced legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% from April 2014 and to 20% from April 2015.
This has resulted in a 747,000 charge to equity in the year to 26 January 2014, included within the net charge for the year of 1,899,000.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in the statement of financial position for unused capital losses of 2,382,000 2013: 2,382,000.
A further deferred tax asset of 892,000 2013: 1,026,000 has not been recognised in respect of acquired tax losses in Taut U. K. Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
23 Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows for the Group and Company: 2014 2013 000 000 No later than one year 2,936 1,222 More than one year but not more than five years 8,911 1,610 Due beyond five years 4,599 363 Total lease commitments 16,446 3,195 The Company has entered into an operating lease agreement for plant at its Milton Keynes site.
The lease lasts for seven years.
The value of the plant leased will amount to 14,100,000.
24 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the finance department in accordance with policies approved by the board of directors.
The Groups finance department identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups business units.
The Board provides guidance on overall market risk management including use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
In addition, treasury matters are dealt with by the Treasury Committee.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally.
The Group primarily buys and sells in Sterling but does have some purchases and sales denominated in USDollars and Euros.
Due to the hedging arrangements that have been in place for the year ended 26 January 2014, if Sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar or Euro, with all other variables held constant, there would have been an immaterial effect on post tax profit year ended 26 January 2013: immaterial impact on post taxprofit.
The Group periodically enters into forward option contracts to purchase foreign currencies for known purchases where the value and volume of trading purchases is known.
The Treasury Committee assesses whether hedge accounting should be applied for each forward option contract.
Price risk The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk because no such investments are held by the Group other than within Pension Scheme assets.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 Notes to the Accounts Continued 24 Financial risk management continued The Group purchases a wide range of commodities in the ordinary course of business.
Exposure to changes in the market price of certain of these commodities, including sugar, plastic, aluminium and mango, is managed through the use of forward physical supply contracts, primarily to convert floating or indexed prices to fixed prices.
The use of such contracts to hedge commodity exposures is governed by the Groups risk management policies and is continually monitored by the Treasury Committee.
Commodity derivatives also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements whilst achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
All of the Groups commodity derivatives are treated as own use contracts, which are outside the scope of IAS 39, since they are both entered into, and continue to be held, for the purposes of the Groups ordinary operations, and are not net settled the Group takes physical delivery of the commodity concerned.
Own use contracts do not require accounting entries until the commodity purchase actually crystallises.
The majority of the Groups forward physical contracts and commodity derivatives have original maturities of less than one year.
As all of the commodity contracts qualify for the own use treatment, no sensitivity analysis has been carried out.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Groups income and operating cash inflows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings obtained at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
For the year ended 26 January 2014, if interest rates on Sterling-denominated borrowings at that date had been 0.5% higher lower with all other variables held constant, there would have been an immaterial change in the post tax profit for the year year ended 26 January 2013: immaterial impact.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to major and direct to store customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of A are accepted.
If major customers are independently rated, these ratings are used.
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, risk control processes assess the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual risk limits are set by the management committee based on internal or external ratings.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
Sales to direct to store customers are largely settled in cash in order to manage credit risk from smaller, independent stores.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, the Group maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining sufficient cash reserves and the availability of borrowing facilities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
This is carried out at a Group level and involves projecting forward cash flows and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet excesses of expenditure relative to income.
Capital risk management The Group defines capital as being net debt plus equity.
The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain an appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the Group, whilst operating within its bank covenants.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
