Directors Remuneration Report Continued Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Minimum performance Fixed elements of remuneration base salary, No bonus.
Base salary is the latest known salary i. e. the salary effective from 1 April 2014 Performance in line with expectations 50% of salary awarded for achieving target 20% of maximum award vesting i. e. 25% of and the value for benefits has been performance.
salary for achieving target performance.
calculated as per the single figure table on page 63.
Maximum performance 100% of salary awarded for achieving 100% of maximum award vesting i. e. 125% of maximum performance.
salary for achieving maximum performance.
LTIP awards are included in the scenarios above at face value with no share price movement included.
Service contracts Executive directors contracts are on a rolling basis and may be terminated on 12 months notice by the Company or on 6 months notice by the executive.
Service contracts for new directors will generally be limited to 12 months notice by the Company.
The service contract for each of the existing executive directors provides for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to the directors basic salary at termination plus the value of all contractual benefits for a two year period.
In the event this liquidated damages payment is triggered, the director will also be deemed to be a good leaver for the purposes of the Companys share schemes.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time the existing directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the fact that these provisions do not reflect best practice.
It has therefore considered the alternatives available to exit these contractual arrangements, including contractual buy-out.
However, the Remuneration Committee concluded that it was not feasible to place a value on these rights, in order to remove them from the contracts, which would be acceptable to both parties.
It therefore determined that the most appropriate approach would be to maintain the legacy provisions, however for all future appointments these provisions would not apply.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Their appointments are terminable by either the Company or the directors themselves upon three months notice without compensation.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
