Directors Statement Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the parent Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the Group and parent Company financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 32 to 33 of this report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit: the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
B. C. Short Chief Executive Finance Director 25 March 2014 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Barr Brand range The Barr Brand continued its development of new flavours adding a Bubblegum flavoured drink to the range during the year.
The Barr Brand continues to develop with the launch of Barr XTRA Cola in 2014.
We are always looking for opportunities to develop new skills.
