Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises R. G. Hanna, W. R. G. Barr, M. A. Griffiths, J. R. Nicolson appointed 28 May 2013 and P. Powell appointed 20 January 2014.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by R. G. Hanna.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board and ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
The remit of the Nomination Committee also includes reviewing the composition of the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors and ensuring plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on membership of its committees.
The Nomination Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and, amongst other matters, considered and recommended the appointment of P. Powell to the Board and its committees.
In identifying a potential new non-executive director, the Nomination Committee retained the services of The Zygos Partnership, an external search consultant.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company other than the provision of these services.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity to the success of the business and is firmly committed to giving due consideration to all aspects of diversity, including gender diversity.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity of the Board.
Whilst no formal measurable objectives have been set for female representation at Board level, the Board remains committed to the principles of gender diversity.
The disclosure relating to gender diversity within the Company is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report forming part of the Strategic Report on page 26.
Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
B. C. Short and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 27 January 2013 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the Board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 16 January 2014, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the Board.
The Board requires the departments within the Group to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 26 January 2014 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
