Notes to the Accounts Continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold land and buildings includes the following amounts where the company is a lessee under a finance lease: 2014 2013 000 000 Cost-capitalised finance lease 25,486 Accumulated depreciation 2,349 Net book value 23,137 13 Pension prepayment During September 2013 the Company established the A. G. BARR Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership and through the Partnership has entered into a long term pension funding arrangement with the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
The Partnership is controlled by A. G. BARR p. l. c. and its results are consolidated by the Group.
The carrying value of the properties sold to the Partnership and leased back to the Company remain included on the Groups balance sheet and continued to be depreciated in line with the Groups accounting policies with the Group retaining full operational control over these properties.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these financial statements.
Separate accounts for the Partnership are not required to be, and have not been, filed at U. K. Companies House.
As part of the funding arrangement the Company made a one off payment to the Pension Scheme of 20.4m to allow it to invest in the Partnership and this is treated as a prepayment of pension contributions.
Further information on the asset backed funding arrangement is included within note 25.
As the Partnership results are consolidated within the Group results no prepayment is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Company 2014 2013 000 000 Non-current 19,151 Current 1,134 Prepayment of pension contributions 20,285 The element of the prepayment classified as current is included within the prepayments figure of 3,590,000, as set out in note 18.
14 Derivative financial instruments Group and company Fair value hierarchy IFRS 7 requires all financial instruments carried at fair value to be analysed under the following levels: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: i nputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. asprices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the date of the statement of financial position, with the resulting value discounted accordingly as relevant.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
