Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 107 Company financial statements Company balance sheet At 2 February 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C 291.7 290.6 Current assets Debtors due within one year D 54.4 53.1 Debtors due after more than one year D 904.8 901.6 Total debtors 959.2 954.7 Cash and cash equivalents E 26.6 959.2 981.3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year F 159.3 332.8 Net current assets 799.9 648.5 Total assets less current liabilities 1,091.6 939.1 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year F 663.9 663.9 Provision for liabilities and charges deferred tax H 0.1 Net assets 427.6 275.2 Capital and reserves Called up share capital J 18.6 18.5 Equity element nominal value of preference shares G 10.4 10.4 Share premium K 32.7 32.0 Capital redemption reserve K 4.4 4.4 Merger reserve K 0.6 0.6 Hedging reserve K 1.8 Profit and loss account K 360.9 207.5 Total shareholders funds L 427.6 275.2 The Company financial statements on pages 107 to 113 were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Mark Whiteling Director Premier Farnell plc Registered number 876412 The accounting policies and notes on pages 108 to 113 form an integral part of the Company financial statements.
indd 107 23 04 2014 13:15 108 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Company financial statements Defined contribution plan Accounting policies Payments to the defined contribution plan are charged as an expense Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and as they fall due.
domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the Companys registered office is Farnell House, Deferred taxation Forge Lane, Leeds LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered number is 876412.
Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation resulting from timing differences between the profits computed for These Company financial statements have been approved by the taxation purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that Board of Directors on 17 April 2014. there is an obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised Basis of preparation to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared under Deferred tax is provided at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the the historical cost convention, with the exception of derivative financial periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based instruments which are recognised at fair value, and in accordance with on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted applicable UK accounting standards.
The financial statements have by the balance sheet date.
been prepared on a going concern basis.
A summary of the more important accounting policies of the Company, which the Directors Financial instruments consider to be the most appropriate, is set out below.
The Company has not been required to adopt any new accounting standards or Under FRS 25, the Companys cumulative, convertible, redeemable interpretations during the year that have a significant impact on the preference shares are required to be split into debt and equity Companys financial results.
components with the preference dividend being reclassified as a finance cost.
The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the The financial year ended 2 February 2014 was a 52 week period shares, based on the discounted cash flows of the instrument to the financial year ended 3 February 2013: 53 week period.
date of maturity and is then increased each year on an amortised cost basis through the income statement in order to arrive at the redemption Foreign currencies amount payable on maturity of the shares.
On purchase and Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of cancellation of preference shares by the Company, a gain or loss exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and is recognised in the profit and loss account based on the difference liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the between the book value and fair value of the financial liability element of contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet the instrument at the date of purchase.
The difference between the book date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit value and fair value of the equity element of the instrument is recognised and loss account.
as a movement in the profit and loss account.
In addition, a transfer is made to non-distributable reserves from profit and loss account in order to maintain the legal nominal value of share capital.
The accounting for Retirement benefits the Companys preference shares in accordance with FRS 25 is Employees of the Company are able to participate in the Premier Farnell identical to that under IAS 32, further details for which are given in UK Pension Scheme, comprising both a defined benefit and a defined note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.
The assets of the plan are held separately from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury Defined benefit plan policy, the Company does not have or issue speculative derivative The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets arrangements.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and to an underlying business requirement.
Derivative financial instruments therefore, as permitted by FRS 17, accounts for the plan as if it were a are recognised at fair value.
At period ends, the gain or loss on redefined contribution plan.
The consolidated financial statements include measurement to fair value is recognised in profit and loss.
However, full disclosures of the UK defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any note 25. resulting gain or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based upon market forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of short term deposits, loans and overdrafts with maturities of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
The fair value of the Companys US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes is based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate for similar instruments.
The fair value of the Companys preference shares is based on the quoted market price.
indd 108 23 04 2014 13:15 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 109 All of the Groups share-based incentives have non-market based Cash flow hedges performance measures earnings per share or return on sales, for Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the which the Black Scholes model is used and the value of the expense variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The fair value probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on of SAYE grants is calculated using the Black Scholes model and the the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures.
hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were Called up share capital recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the Called up share capital is classified as equity and dividends are same period s during which the income expense is recognised.
For recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects Shares in subsidiary undertakings profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Provision immediately recognised in the profit and loss account.
is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution in value has occurred.
Share-based payments The Company operates five equity settled, share-based incentive schemes: an Executive Share Option Plan, a Performance Share Plan, a Restricted Share Plan, a Deferred Share Bonus Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
These are accounted for in accordance with FRS 20, Share-based Payments.
For incentives granted to employees of Premier Farnell plc, an expense is required to be recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using appropriate option pricing models.
The expense is credited to reserves.
For incentives granted to employees of Group companies other than Premier Farnell plc, the cost for share-based incentives, again based on the fair value of each instrument at grant date, is treated as an increase in investments, with the corresponding credit being made directly to reserves.
