124 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is Premier Oil plc, 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN.
The principal activities of the company and its subsidiaries the group are oil and gas exploration and production in the Falkland Islands, Indonesia, Norway, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and Rest of the World.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars since that is the currency in which the majority of the groups transactions are denominated.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted, - none of which have a material impact on the groups annual results.
New and revised Standards on consolidation, joint arrangements, associates and disclosure: In May 2011, a package of five standards on consolidation, joint arrangements, associates and disclosures was issued comprising IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 as revised in 2011 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 as revised in 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Subsequent to the issue of these standards, amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 were issued to clarify certain transitional guidance on the first-time application of the standards.
In the current year, the group has applied for the first time IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 as revised in 2011 together with the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 regarding the transitional guidance.
IAS 27 as revised in 2011 has also been applied and it deals only with separate financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting IFRIC 21 Levies Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 11 amendments Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendments Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IAS 16 and IAS 41 amendments Agriculture: Bearer Plants IAS 19 amendments Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IAS 27 amendments Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-2012 Amendments to: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 Amendments to: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IAS 40 Investment Property Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Cycle Amendments to: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 19 Employee Benefits and IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting The directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group in future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 125 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of financial instruments and certain oil and gas properties at the transition date to IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Further information relating to the going concern assumption is provided in the Financial Review.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when a company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the group.
All significant inter-company transactions and balances between group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Financial Statements 126 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Interest in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is one in which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Most of the groups activities are conducted through joint operations, whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
The group reports its interests in joint operations using proportionate consolidation the groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint operation are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
A joint venture, which normally involves the establishment of a separate legal entity, is a contractual arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the arrangements net assets.
The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
During 2014, the group did not have any material interests in joint ventures.
Where the group transacts with its joint operations, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the joint operation.
Interests in associates An associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a joint arrangement.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Sales revenue and other income Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 127 Oil and gas assets The company applies the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
a Exploration and evaluation assets Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets.
Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets.
Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the groups vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and equipment used by the companys exploration function are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible costs include directly attributable overhead, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets, is then reclassified as development and production assets.
If, however, commercial reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
b Development and production assets Development and production assets are accumulated generally on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets, as outlined in accounting policy a above.
The cost of development and production assets also includes the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the cost of recognising provisions for future restoration and decommissioning.
Depreciation of producing assets The net book values of producing assets are depreciated generally on a field-by-field basis using the unit-of-production method by reference to the ratio of production in the year and the related commercial proved and probable reserves of the field, taking into account future development expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
Pipelines are depreciated on a unit-of-throughput basis.
c Impairment of development and production assets An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash inflows of each field are interdependent.
Any impairment identified is charged to the income statement as additional depreciation.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income statement, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
128 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Oil and gas assets continued d Acquisitions, asset purchases and disposals Acquisitions of oil and gas properties are accounted for under the acquisition method when the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business.
Transactions involving the purchase of an individual field interest, or a group of field interests, that do not constitute a business, are treated as asset purchases irrespective of whether the specific transactions involve the transfer of the field interests directly or the transfer of an incorporated entity.
Accordingly, no goodwill and no deferred tax gross up arises, and the consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities purchased on an appropriate basis.
Proceeds on disposal are applied to the carrying amount of the specific intangible asset or development and production assets disposed of and any surplus is recorded as a gain on disposal in the income statement.
e Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when the related facilities are installed.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related oil and gas property.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is dealt with prospectively as an adjustment to the provision and the oil and gas property.
The unwinding of the discount is included as a finance cost.
Inventories Inventories, except for petroleum products, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Petroleum products and under and over lifts of crude oil are recorded at net realisable value, under inventories and other debtors or creditors respectively.
Tax The tax expense credit represents the sum of the tax currently payable recoverable and deferred tax movements during the year.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill excess of fair value over cost or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The group reassesses its unrecognised deferred tax asset each year taking into account changes in oil and gas prices, the groups proven and probable reserve profile and forecast capital and operating expenditures.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 129 Translation of foreign currencies In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies, being currencies other than the functional currency, are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets held at historic cost are translated at the date of purchase and are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are generally translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the year in which the operation is disposed of.
Group retirement benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is also recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Royalties Royalties are charged as production costs to the income statement in the year in which the related production is recognised as income.
Leasing Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use, i. e. when they are capable of commercial production.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
130 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and oil price fluctuations.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost, including transaction costs.
Derivatives are subsequently carried at fair value.
Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging instruments, all changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may be of three types: fair value hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash flow hedges are hedges of particular risks that may change the amount or timing of future cash flows: and hedges of net investment in a foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that may change the carrying value of the net assets of a foreign entity.
Currently the group only has cash flow hedge relationships.
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
If these conditions are not met, then the relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting.
In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were no hedging relationship.
In particular any derivatives are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial income or expense.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value.
The portion of any change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining ineffective portion is reported in financial income.
If the hedging relationship is the hedge of a firm commitment or highly probable forecasted transaction, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
For all other qualifying cash flow hedges, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are included in financial income at the time when the forecasted transaction affects net income.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives which are closely related to host contracts, including in particular price caps and floors within the groups oil sales contracts, are not separated and are not carried at fair value.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and short-term deposits, less overdrafts.
Cash equivalents comprise funds held in term deposit accounts with an original maturity not exceeding three months.
Share-based payments The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo simulation.
The main assumptions are provided in note 19.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 131 Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the group, is included in equity and is not re-measured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the groups significant accounting judgements and critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial statements and include: carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets note 8 : carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 9 : proved and probable reserves estimates note 9 : decommissioning costs note 16 : tax and recognition of deferred tax assets note 18.
