Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 183 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar All enquiries concerning your shareholding should be directed to Capita Asset Services: Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Telephone: UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute including VAT plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday Overseas: 44 0 20 8639 3399 Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk Share portal As a shareholder you have direct access to an online share portal operated by Capita Asset Services at www.
You can access the share portal with your Investor Code IVC which can be found on your share certificate.
The portal provides a range of services, free of charge, to help you to administer your shareholding quickly and efficiently by allowing you to: Check your share balance: Change your address details: Choose to receive electronic shareholder communications: Set up or amend a dividend mandate so dividends can be paid directly to your bank account: and Buy and sell Premier Oil plc shares using the dealing service operated by Capita Deal.
Dividends Dividend history Details of dividend payments made are included within the shareholder information section of the Investors area of the Premier website: www.
com Dividend mandates Shareholders who have a UK bank or building society account may complete a dividend bank mandate in order to receive any future dividends on the payment date.
When a dividend is paid, tax vouchers will be sent directly to a shareholders registered address.
You can complete a dividend mandate form via the share portal at www.
If you have not used the share portal before you will be asked to register your account.
Alternatively, you can telephone Capita Asset Services or apply in writing to their address above.
International dividend payment service Overseas shareholders who wish to have any future dividends paid in a local currency can use the International Payment Service offered by Capita.
The International Payment Service is available to holders who receive individual dividend or interest payments of 10 or more payments of less than 10 or more than 100,000 will be paid by sterling cheque, unless otherwise agreed.
Further information, including the terms and conditions of the International Payment Service, is available on Capitas International Payment Service website: http: international.
Please note this service may not be available to all overseas shareholders.
E-communications Shareholders have the option to receive communications including annual reports and notices of meetings electronically.
For every shareholder that actively registers their email address online Premier Oil plc has pledged to donate 1 to Pure Leapfrogs carbon offsetting programme which supports carbon reduction projects in Africa, India and other developing countries www.
To register for this service, please visit the share portal: www.
You will need your Investor Code IVC which can be found on your share certificate.
Once registered, Premier Oil plc will communicate with you via email rather than post.
Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited financial advice, including offers to buy Premier shares at inflated prices, or offers of free reports about Premier.
More information can be found at www.
uk consumers scams and in the Shareholder Information section of the Investors area of the Premier website: www.
com American Depositary Receipt programme Premier Oil plc has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme which BNY Mellon administers and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the company.
The ADRs trade on the US over-thecounter market under the symbol PMOIY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such dividends into US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes the net amount to ADR holders.
Registered Depositary Receipt holders can trade, access account balances and transaction history, find answers to frequently asked questions and download commonly needed forms online at www.
To speak directly to a BNY Mellon representative, please call 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269-2377 if you are calling from within the United States.
If you are calling from outside the United States, please call 201-680-6825.
You may also send an email inquiry to shrrelations@.
com or visit the website at www.
