102 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZ Cussons Plc Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, definedbelow: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 May2014: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice:and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of thisreport.
What we have audited The Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by PZ Cussons Plc, comprise: the company balance sheet as at 31 May 2014:and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other .
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted AccountingPractice.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts theAnnual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and areidentified asaudited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements orinconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In ouropinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements:and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit:or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us:or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from thisresponsibility.
103 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified bylaw are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Reportis: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements:or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course ofperforming our audit:or is otherwisemisleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fairview.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent inwriting.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May2014.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and StatutoryAuditors Leeds 29 July2014
