Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Additional information Shareholder information Share administration Donating shares to charity The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
If you have any queries regarding Shareholders with small numbers of shares which may be your shareholding, including dividend payments and change of uneconomic to sell may wish to consider donating them to the address notifications, please contact Equiniti, either in writing at the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Details are address shown on the next page, by telephone on 0871 384 2021 available at www.
uk or by telephone on 020 7930 3737. or online at https: help.
co. uk from here, if you need Unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence further assistance, you will be able to email Equiniti securely.
We are aware that some shareholders might have received Equiniti also offers Shareview, a free of charge service enabling unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning you to access and maintain your shareholding online.
These are typically from fraudsters who use Shareview you can register for electronic communications, see persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
details of balance movements and complete certain amendments They may offer to sell shareholders shares that turn out to be online, such as changes to dividend mandate instructions.
To take worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price advantage of Shareview, register online at www.
co. uk, in return for an upfront payment.
If you receive any unsolicited click on Register and follow the steps.
investment advice, check that the firm is properly authorised by Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays.
the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by visiting www.
uk Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
and selecting Financial Services Register, or report the matter to the Direct dividend payments FCA by calling 0800 111 6768.
If the calls persist, hang up.
If you If you would like to have your dividend paid directly into a UK bank deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive or building society account, please contact Equiniti or complete the payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque.
The associated Share price tax voucher will still be sent to your registered address.
If you live Details of current and historical share prices can be found on the outside the UK, Equiniti offers a global payments service which is Companys website at www.
The graph below available in certain countries and could enable you to receive your shows the share price trend during the year ended 31 March 2014: dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Further details can be obtained direct from Equiniti or online at 260 www.
240 Consolidated tax vouchers Shareholders who have dividends paid direct into a bank or building 220 society account receive a consolidated tax voucher which details all dividends paid for the year.
Under this process, a shareholders 200 dividend is paid direct to their bank account each time a dividend 180 is paid and once a year they receive a tax voucher detailing all dividends paid for that year.
Shareholders who prefer to continue 160 receiving tax vouchers with each dividend payment can contact Equiniti Registrars to request this.
140 Electronic communications 120 The Company offers shareholders the option to receive documentation and communications electronically, via the Companys website.
The wider use of electronic communications enables fast receipt of documents, reduces the Companys printing, The share prices used in the graph above are the mid-market closing prices as derived paper and postal costs and reduces the Companys environmental from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Shareholders can register for electronic communications at www.
co. uk and may also cast their vote for the 2014 AGM online quickly and easily using the Sharevote service by visiting www.
