Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 1.
Significant accounting policies The company and its subsidiaries together with its joint The principal accounting policies applied in the ventures the group carry out exploration and gold preparation of these consolidated and company mining activities.
Currently there are three operating financial statements are set out below.
These policies mines in Mali, West Africa: the Morila gold mine equity have been consistently applied to all the years accounted JV, which started production in October presented, unless otherwise stated.
2000, the Loulo gold mine complex subsidiary, which commenced production in November 2005 and the Basis of preparation Gounkoto mine subsidiary, which began production The consolidated financial statements of Randgold in June 2011.
The group also operates a fourth mine Resources Limited and its subsidiaries and joint in Cte dIvoire, Tongon subsidiary, which started ventures have been prepared in accordance with production in December 2010.
The group also holds International Financial Reporting Standards and an effective 45% interest in the Kibali gold mine equity Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the accounted JV in the Democratic Republic of Congo International Accounting Standards Board IASB as DRC in conjunction with AngloGold Ashanti Limited adopted by the European Union and in accordance AngloGold Ashanti 45% and Socit Minire fide Kilowith Article 105 of the Companies Jersey Law of Moto sarl SOKIMO 10%.
Randgold is the operator of 1991.
The consolidated financial statements also the Morila, Loulo, Gounkoto, Tongon and Kibali mines.
comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing on NASDAQ in the US.
The The interests of the group in its operating mines are held consolidated financial statements have been prepared through Socit des Mines fide Morila SA Morila which under the historical cost convention, as modified by the owns the Morila mine, Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and Loulo which owns the Loulo mine, Socit des Mines various financial assets.
The preparation of financial fide Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine, statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA Gounkoto which certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires owns the Gounkoto mine and Kibali Goldmines SA management to exercise its judgement in the process Kibali, which owns the Kibali mine.
Randgold holds of applying the companys accounting policies.
an effective 40% interest in Morila in conjunction with The areas involving a high degree of judgement or AngloGold Ashanti 40% and the State of Mali 20%.
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates Management of Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of are significant to the consolidated financial statements Morila, is effected through a joint venture committee, are disclosed in note 3. with Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of the committee.
Similarly, After reviewing the groups and companys budget for management of Kibali Jersey Limited, the effective the next financial year, and other longer term plans, 90% shareholder of Kibali, is effected through a joint the directors are satisfied, at the time of approving the venture committee, with Randgold and AngloGold financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Randgold holds an effective 80% The directors have no reason to believe that the interest in Loulo and Gounkoto.
The remaining 20% group and company will not be a going concern in the interest is held by the State of Mali.
Randgold holds foreseeable future based on forecasts and available an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is held by the cash resources and available facilities.
State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is held by a local Ivorian company.
New standards and interpretations applied The IASB has issued the following new standards, The group has a portfolio of exploration permits amendments to published standards and and projects, with various exploration programmes, interpretations to existing standards with effective ranging from early to substantial stage, underway in dates on or prior to 1 January 2014 which have been the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal and adopted by the group for the first time this year.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS as issued IFRS as issued by IASB by EU Effective period commencing on or after Impact on group IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IFRS 7 Disclosures offsetting financial No material impact, assets and financial liabilities 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 disclosures amended IAS 27 Amendment separate financial statements 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IAS 28 Amendment investments in associates and joint ventures 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IFRS 1 Amendment government loans 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IAS 19 Amendment employee benefits 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact Annual improvements to IFRSs 20092011 cycle 1 Jan 2013 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IAS 32 Amendment offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IAS 36 Amendment recoverable amounts disclosures for non-financial assets 1 Jan 2014 1 Jan 2014 No material impact IFRIC 21 Levies 1 Jan 2014 17 June 2014 No material impact Standards effective in future period Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are relevant to the groups activities and are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2015 or later periods and which the group has decided not to adopt early.
Effective period commencing on or after Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle effective 1 July 2014 : and Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011- 2013 cycle effective 1 July 2014.
1 IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 Jan 2018 IAS 19 Amendment Defined benefit plans: employee contributions 1 Jul 2014 1 IFRS 11 Amendment Accounting for acquisition of interests in joint operations 1 Jan 2016 IAS 16 & Amendments Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and 1 IAS 38 amortisation 1 Jan 2016 1 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 Jan 2017 IAS 27 Amendment Equity method in separate financial statements 1 Jan 2016 IFRS 10 & Amendment Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its IAS 28 associate or joint venture 1 Jan 2016 IAS 1 Amendment Disclosure initiative 1 Jan 2016 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 cycle 1 Jan 2016 1 Not yet adopted by the European Union.
The group is currently assessing the impact of these standards on the financial statements.
At present, no impact is anticipated in respect of the standards and interpretations, given the nature of operations.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 206 the group had previously proportionately consolidated, Consolidation excluding minorities, at 1 January 2011 being the earliest The consolidated financial information includes the period presented in the 2013 US 20-F filing.
This financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries and opening balance was regarded as the deemed cost of the the companys equity accounted joint ventures using investments at initial recognition.
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
Acquisitions Except for initial recognition under IFRS 11 transition Subsidiaries rules, further investments in additional joint ventures are Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the initially recognised at cost.
The cost of an acquisition power to govern the financial and operating policies so is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity as to obtain benefits from the activities and the ability to instruments issued or liabilities incurred or assumed at the use its power over the investee to affect the amounts of date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the the groups returns and which generally accompanies acquisition.
Goodwill on associated companies and joint an interest of more than one-half of the voting rights.
ventures represents the excess of the cost of acquisition Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on of the associate or joint venture over the groups share of which control is transferred to the group.
They are the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the associate deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The or joint venture and is included in the carrying amount of purchase method of accounting is used to account for the investments.
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or method of accounting.
In applying the equity method of assumed at the date of exchange.
Acquisition costs are accounting, both for existing joint ventures subsequent expensed.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral to the transition date and for any newly acquired joint property interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities ventures, the groups share of its joint ventures postassumed in a business combination are measured initially acquisition profits or losses are recognised in profit or loss at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of and its share of post-acquisition other comprehensive the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups These post-acquisition movements and distributions share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as received from the joint venture companies are adjusted goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets.
If the cost against the carrying amount of the investments.
When the of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets groups share of losses in an associated or joint venture of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised company equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
company, including any other unsecured non-current receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised unless it has obligations to make or has made payments gains on transactions between group companies are on behalf of the associated or joint venture company.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the its associated and joint venture companies are eliminated asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have to the extent of the groups interest in the associated been changed where necessary to ensure consistency and joint venture companies.
Unrealised losses are also with the policies adopted by the group.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Trading receivables Joint ventures and payables with joint ventures are classified within trade The group holds interests in a number of joint ventures.
and other receivables and payables.
The accounting In a joint venture the parties that have joint control of the policies of associated and joint venture companies have arrangement the joint venturers have a right to the net been changed where necessary to ensure consistency assets of the arrangement.
This right is accounted for with the accounting policies adopted by the group.
in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
Joint control is considered to exist when there Dividends received are classified as operating cash flows is contractual joint control: control being the power to in the consolidated cash flow statement.
govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from the activities and the ability to Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures use its power over the investee to affect the amounts of Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at the groups returns by the joint venturers.
cost less any provisions for impairment in the individual financial statements of the company.
Dividends are Transition accounted for when the company becomes entitled The group changed its accounting policy on joint ventures from 1 January 2013 following the introduction of IFRS 11 to receive them.
On the disposal of an investment, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the Joint arrangements.
On transition, the group recognised carrying amount is charged or credited to the statement its initial investment in joint ventures as the aggregate of comprehensive income.
of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED commercial production below, after which the relevant Segmental reporting costs are amortised.
Costs are capitalised provided that An operating segment is a group of assets and operations the project is considered to be commercially, technically engaged in performing mining or advanced exploration and economically viable.
Such viability is deemed to be that are subject to risks and returns that are different from achieved when the group is confident that the project will those of other segments.
Other parts of the business provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks are aggregated and treated as part of a corporate and and is sufficiently certain of economic production.
The group provides segmental which are necessarily incurred while commissioning new information using the same categories of information assets, in the period before they are capable of operating the groups chief operating decision maker utilises.
The in the manner intended by management, are capitalised groups chief operating decision maker is considered by under Long-lived assets and mine development costs.
management to be the board of directors.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of The group has only one business segment, that of gold production are capitalised to the extent they are expected mining.
Segment analysis is based on individual mining to give rise to a future economic benefit.
operations and exploration projects that have a significant amount of capitalised expenditure or other fixed assets.
Commercial production The group assesses the stage of each mine construction Foreign currency translation project to determine when a mine moves into the Functional and presentation currency production stage.
The criteria used to assess the Items included in the financial statements of each of start date are determined by the unique nature of each the groups entities are measured using the currency of mine construction project and include factors such as the primary economic environment in which the entity the complexity of a plant and its location.
The group operates the functional currency.
The consolidated considers various relevant criteria to assess when the financial statements are presented in US dollars, which mine construction project is substantially complete and is also the functional currency of the company and its ready for its intended use and moves into the production significant subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Some of the criteria would include but are not limited to the following: Transactions and balances The level of capital expenditure compared to Foreign currency transactions are translated into the construction cost estimates: relevant functional currency using the exchange rates Completion of a reasonable period of testing of the prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign mine plant and equipment: exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement The ability to produce gold in saleable form: and of such transactions and from the translation at year The ability to sustain commercial levels of gold end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities production.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in other income and When a mine construction project moves into the other expenses.
production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs ceases and subsequent costs Property, plant and equipment are either regarded as inventory or expensed, except Long-lived assets and mine development costs for capitalisable costs related to subsequent mining Long-lived assets including development costs and asset additions or improvements, open cast stripping, mine plant facilities such as processing plants, tailings underground mine development or ore reserve facilities, raw water dams and power stations are initially development.
Development of orebodies includes the development costs of shaft systems and waste Development expenditure approval rock removal that allows access to reserves that are Development activities commence after project economically recoverable in the future.
Costs associated sanctioning by the appropriate level of management.
with underground development are capitalised when Judgement is applied by management in determining the works provide access to the ore body, whereas when a project has reached a stage at which economically costs associated with ore extraction from operating ore recoverable reserves exist such that development may be body sections are treated as operating costs.
In exercising this judgement, management relevant the estimated cost of dismantling the asset and is required to make certain estimates and assumptions remediating the site is included in the cost of property, similar to those described below for capitalised exploration plant and equipment, subsequently they are measured at and evaluation expenditure.
Any such estimates and cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
Development costs consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity.
Stripping costs In surface mining operations, the group may find it Costs are capitalised during the construction of a new mine necessary to remove waste materials to gain access until commercial levels of production are achieved refer to to mineral ore deposits prior to and after production Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 208 commences.
This waste removal activity is known as relevant asset.
As an example, underground assets are stripping.
Prior to production commencing from a pit, depreciated over underground proven and probable stripping costs are measured internally and capitalised until reserves and tonnes milled from those ore bodies.
No the point where the overburden has been removed and future capital expenditure is included in the depreciable access to the ore commences.
Proven and probable ore reserves reflect estimated waste stripping continues, either as part of ore extraction quantities of economically recoverable reserves, which can as a run of mine activity or due to strategic decisions such be recovered in the future from known mineral deposits.
There are two benefits Only proven and probable reserves are used in the tonnes accruing to the group from stripping activity during the milled units of production depreciation calculation.
Any production phase: usable ore that can be used to produce changes to the expected life of the mine or asset are inventory and improved access to further quantities of applied prospectively in calculating depreciation and material that will be mined in future periods.
ore extracted during this period and subsequently is accounted for as inventory.
The production stripping Depreciation of construction and development costs for costs relating to improved access to further quantities in new mines commences when commercial production is future periods are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, achieved, as detailed above.
Underground development if and only if, all of the following are met: costs are depreciated from the date the development It is probable that the future economic benefit provides access to operational areas and ore extraction improved access to the orebody associated with begins from those areas.
Other assets under construction, the stripping activity will flow to the group: such as plant improvement projects, are depreciated from The group can identify the component of the ore the date they are commissioned, based on assessment body for which access has been improved: and by the groups engineers.
The costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component or components can be Short-lived assets which include motor vehicles, office measured reliably.
equipment and computer equipment are depreciated over estimated useful lives of between two to five years In determining the relevant component of the orebody but limited to the remaining mine life.
Residual values and for which access is improved, the group componentises useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each of its mines into geographically distinct orebody each statement of financial position date.
Changes to the sections or phases to which the stripping activities being estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for undertaken within that component are allocated.
Depreciation starts when the assets are phases are determined based on assessment of factors ready and available for use.
such as geology and mine planning.
Impairment Once determined that any portion of the production The carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment stripping costs should be capitalised, the group typically and investments in joint ventures of the group is compared uses the average stripping ratio of the component or phase to the recoverable amount of the assets whenever events of the mine to which the production stripping cost related or changes in circumstances indicate that the net book to determine the amount of the production stripping costs value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount that should be capitalised.
is the higher of value in use and the fair value less cost to sell.
In assessing the value in use, the expected future The group depreciates the deferred costs capitalised cash flows from the assets is determined by applying a as stripping assets on a unit of production method, with discount rate to the anticipated risk adjusted future cash reference the ex-pit ore treated from the relevant ore body flows.
The discount rate used is the groups weighted component or phase.
average cost of capital adjusted for asset specific factors when applicable.
An impairment is recognised in the Short-lived assets income statement to the extent that the carrying amount Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are shown exceeds the assets recoverable amount.
Only proven at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
and probable reserves are used in the calculations and the models use the approved mine plans and exclude capital Depreciation and amortisation expenditure which enhance the assets or extractable Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as ore tonnes outside of such approved mine plans.
The freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw water revised carrying amounts are amortised in line with group dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as well as accounting policies.
mine development costs and are depreciated on a unit of production basis.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the Depreciation and amortisation are charged over the life conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This of the mine or over the remaining useful life of the asset, reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited if shorter based on estimated ore tonnes contained in to the carrying amount that would have been determined, proven and probable reserves to be extracted using the net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 209 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED in prior years.
Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for Costs of gold inventories include all costs incurred up which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashuntil production of an ounce of gold such as milling costs, generating units for purposes of assessing impairment.
mining costs and directly attributable mine general and The estimates of future discounted cash flows are subject administration costs but exclude transport costs, refining to risks and uncertainties including the future gold price.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to estimated contained gold and market is therefore reasonably possible that changes could occur gold prices.
which may affect the recoverability of property, plant and equipment investments in joint ventures.
Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and are valued at weighted average cost after appropriate Inventories impairment of redundant and slow moving items.
Inventories include ore stockpiles, gold in process and Consumable stock for which the group has substantially dre supplies, stores and materials, and are stated at all the risks and rewards of ownership are brought onto the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The cost of ore the statement of financial position as current assets.
stockpiles and gold produced is determined principally by the weighted average cost method using related Interest borrowing costs production costs.
Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal outstanding and the effective rate Cost of stockpiles include costs incurred up to the point over the period to maturity.
Borrowing cost is expensed of stockpiling, such as mining and grade control costs, as incurred except to the extent that it relates directly but exclude future costs of production.
Ore extracted is to the construction of property, plant and equipment allocated to stockpiles based on estimated grade, with during the time that is required to complete and prepare grades below defined cut-off levels treated as waste and the asset for its intended use, when it is capitalised as expensed.
While held in physically separate stockpiles, the part of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing cost group blends the ore from each stockpile at an individual is capitalised as part of the cost of the asset where it is mine when feeding the processing plant to achieve the probable that the asset will result in economic benefit and resultant gold content.
In such circumstances, lower and where the borrowing cost can be measured reliably.
No higher grade ore stockpiles each represent a raw material, interest or borrowing costs have been capitalised during used in conjunction with each other, to deliver overall gold the year.
production, as supported by the relevant feed plan.
Royalties Morilas full grade ore stockpile is above 1.4g t and Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are marginal ore is defined as ore below 1.4g t but greater in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of than 1.0g t. At Loulo, full grade open pit stockpile material royalty is a net smelter return royalty.
Under this type of is above 1.2g t for Loulo 3 and Gara, while Yalea is above royalty the group pays the holder an amount calculated 0.7g t. No Yalea or Gara underground material is on the as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of gold stockpile since all ore mined is fed.
At Gounkoto, the full production at market gold prices less selling costs.
A grade ore stockpile is above 1.67g t and marginal ore royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale above 1.26g t. Tongons, full grade ore stockpile is above of gold is recognised.
1.4g t and marginal ore above 0.9g t. And Kibalis high and medium grade ore stockpile is above 1.4g t. Financial instruments Financial instruments are measured as set out below.
The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in accordance Financial instruments carried on the statement of financial with the Life of Mine LoM processing plan that has position include cash and cash equivalents, trade and been optimised based on the known mineral reserves, other receivables, trade and other payables, available for current plant capacity and mine design.
Ore tonnes sale financial assets, loans to and from subsidiaries and contained in the stockpile which exceed the annual joint ventures and loans to minorities.
tonnes to be milled as per the mine plan in the following year, are classified as non-current in the statement of Cash and cash equivalents financial position.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purpose of the cash flow Net realisable value of ore stockpiles is determined with statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on reference to estimated contained gold and market gold hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term prices applicable.
Ore stockpiles which are blended highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months together or with future ore mined when fed to the plant are or less at the date of purchase and bank overdrafts.
In assessed as an input to the gold production process to the statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are ensure the combined stockpiles are carried at the lower of included in borrowings in current liabilities.
cost and net realisable value.
Ore stockpiles which are not blended in production are assessed separately to ensure Trade and other receivables they are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at value, although no such stockpiles are currently held.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 210 transaction price is fair value unless this could be refuted annually to take into account the effects of inflation and by reference to market indicators.
Subsequently, trade changes in estimated risk adjusted rehabilitation works and other receivables are measured at amortised cost cost and are discounted using rates that reflect the using the effective interest method, less provision for time value of money.
Annual increases in the provision impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables due to the unwinding of the discount are recognised in is established when there is objective evidence that the the statement of comprehensive income as a finance group will not be able to collect all amounts due according cost.
The present value of additional disturbances and to the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial changes in the estimate of the rehabilitation liability are difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will recorded to mining assets against an increase decrease enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default in the rehabilitation provision.
The rehabilitation asset is or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that amortised as noted previously.
Rehabilitation projects the trade receivable may be impaired.
The amount of the undertaken, included in the estimates, are charged to provision is the difference between the assets carrying the provision as incurred.
Environmental liabilities, other amount and the present value of estimated future cash than rehabilitation costs, which relate to liabilities arising flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount from specific events, are expensed when they are known, of the provision is recognised in mining and processing probable and may be reasonably estimated.
costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Provisions Available-for-sale financial assets Provisions are recognised when the group has a present Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that legal or constructive obligation as a result of past are either designated in this category or not classified in events where it is probable that an outflow of resources any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial embodying economic benefits will be required to settle assets are designated on acquisition.
They are normally the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the included in current assets and are carried at fair value.
Where a decline in the fair value of an available-forsale financial asset constitutes objective evidence of Current tax impairment, the amount of the loss is recognised in Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the the statement of comprehensive income within other taxable income for the year calculated using rates and expenses, other movements in fair value are recognised laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted in other reserves within equity.
by the statement of financial position date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable Borrowings including bank borrowings when in respect of previous periods.
applicable, loans from subsidiaries, joint ventures and minorities Taxation paid in the consolidated statement of cash flows Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which relates to corporate tax liability payments.
In Mali, the equates to the proceeds received, net of transaction State is not reimbursing TVA due to the group required costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at under the legally binding mining convention.
The group amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds has an existing legal right under its mining convention to net of transaction costs and the redemption value is offset the TVA against corporate tax as it falls due.
A a recognised in the statement of comprehensive income result, payments made under the TVA taxation system are over the period of the borrowings using the effective being made in the knowledge that such payments first interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current represent payments on account for corporate tax.
The liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to group records such payments as 'taxation paid' in the defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after consolidated statement of cash flows as this is considered the statement of financial position date.
to present a more appropriate reflection of the group's corporate tax contribution by management.
Once Trade and other payables corporate tax liabilities are met, the remaining payments Accounts payable and other short term monetary liabilities, under the TVA system represent normal recoverable TVA are initially recognised at fair value, which equates to the and are not reflected in the consolidated statement of transaction price, and subsequently carried at amortised cash flows as 'taxation paid'.
cost using the effective interest method.
Deferred taxation Rehabilitation costs Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation on temporary differences arising between the tax bases costs is provided for in the financial statements and of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in capitalised within property, plant and equipment on the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the initial recognition.
Rehabilitation will generally occur on temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an closure or after closure of a mine.
Initial recognition is asset or liability in a transaction other than a business at the time of the construction or disturbance occurring combination that at the time of the transaction affects and thereafter as and when additional construction or neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss, it is not disturbances take place.
The estimates are reviewed recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 211 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED and laws that have been enacted or substantively plans, the group pays contributions to publicly or privately enacted by the statement of financial position date and administered provident funds on a mandatory, contractual are expected to apply when the temporary differences or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment reverses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the obligations once the contributions have been paid.
extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will The contributions are recognised as employee benefit be available against which the temporary differences expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint a reduction in the future payments is available.
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is Termination benefits probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in Termination benefits are payable when employment the foreseeable future.
is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy Accounting for Gounkoto non-controlling in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises interest priority dividends termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to Under the statutory requirements of the 1999 Malian either: terminating the employment of current employees Mining Code the Code, the State of Mali is entitled to according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of advanced payment of dividends.
The advanced payment withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result entitlement is calculated based on 10% of profits after of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The advanced dividends paid are Benefits falling due more than 12 months after statement deducted from the ordinary dividends that the government of financial position date are discounted to present value.
receives under its 20% equity interest in Gounkoto.
Given the statute, a liability is recognised at each balance sheet Profit-sharing and bonus plans date based on 10% of the accrued profit measure.
The The group recognises a liability and an expense for liability is extinguished upon the subsequent payment of bonuses.
The group recognises a provision where the advanced dividend.
An other receivables asset is contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that recorded as the advanced dividend automatically entitles has created a constructive obligation.
Gounkoto to reduce future cash flows paid to the State of Mali and creates economic benefit.
The carrying value of Share-based payments the asset is reviewed for impairment.
Ordinary dividends The fair value of the employee services received in are recorded as a reduction in non-controlling interest exchange for the grant of options, restricted shares once declared.
or participation in the groups Co-Investment Plan is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be Contingent liabilities expensed over the vesting period is determined by The group discloses contingent liabilities when possible reference to the fair value of the options or shares awards obligations exist as a result of past events, unless the determined at the grant date: possible outflows of economic benefits are considered Awards including any market performance remote.
By their nature, contingencies will often only conditions for example, the correlation used be resolved when one or more future events occur or between the Euromoney Global Gold Index fail to occur.
The assessment of such contingencies formerly the HSBC Global Gold Index and the inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement company TSR : and and estimates of the outcome of future events.
In certain Excluding the impact of any service and non-market circumstances, to provide transparency, the group performance vesting conditions for example, voluntarily elects to disclose information regarding claims profitability, reserve growth targets and remaining for which any outflow of economic benefit is considered an employee of the entity over a specified time remote.
Share capital Non-market vesting conditions are included in Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs assumptions about the number of options that are directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options expected to become exercisable or the number of shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
that the employee will ultimately receive.
This estimate is revised at each statement of financial position date and Employee benefits the difference is charged or credited to the statement of Pension obligations comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to The group has defined contribution plans.
Market performance conditions are included in the contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group fair value assumptions on the grant date with no subsequent pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The proceeds received on exercise of the has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further options net of any directly attributable transaction costs contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to are credited to equity.
When the options are exercised, the pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service company issues new shares.
The proceeds received net in the current and prior periods.
For defined contribution of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 212 share capital nominal value and share premium when the economic benefits are probable through the completion options are exercised.
Transfers are made between other of a prefeasibility study, after which the expenditure is reserves and share premium when options are exercised capitalised as a mine development cost.
A prefeasibility and shares vest for the cumulative share based expense.
study consists of a comprehensive study of the viability of a mineral project that has advanced to a stage where Leases the mining method, in the case of underground mining, Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, or the pit configuration, in the case of an open pit, has a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement been established, and which, if an effective method of and requires an assessment of whether fulfilment of the mineral processing has been determined, includes a arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset financial analysis based on reasonable assumptions of or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right technical, engineering, operating economic factors and to use the asset.
Leases of plant and equipment where the evaluation of other relevant factors.
The prefeasibility the group assumes a significant portion of risks and study, when combined with existing knowledge of the rewards of ownership are classified as a finance lease.
mineral property that is adjacent to mineral deposits that Finance leases are capitalised at the estimated present are already being mined or developed, allow the directors value of the underlying lease payments.
Each lease to conclude that it is more likely than not that the group payment is allocated between the liability and the finance will obtain future economic benefit from the expenditures.
charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The interest portion of the finance payment Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield sites, is charged to the statement of comprehensive income being those where the group does not have any mineral over the lease period.
The plant and equipment acquired deposits which are already being mined or developed, is under the finance lease are depreciated over the useful expensed until such time as the directors have sufficient lives of the assets, or over the lease term if shorter.
information to determine that future economic benefits are probable, after which the expenditure is capitalised Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and as a mine development cost.
The information required rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are by directors is typically a final feasibility study however a classified as operating leases.
Payments made under prefeasibility study may be deemed to be sufficient where operating leases are charged to the statement of the additional work required to prepare a final feasibility comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the study is not significant or the work done at prefeasibility period of the lease.
level clearly demonstrates an economic asset.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to extensions of Revenue recognition mineral deposits which are already being mined or The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
developed, including expenditure on the definition of Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts is mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised recognised when the price is determinable, the product as a mine development cost following the completion has been delivered in accordance with the terms of the of an economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility contract, the significant risks and rewards of ownership study.
This economic evaluation is distinguished from a have been transferred to the customer and collection of prefeasibility study in that some of the information that the sales price is reasonably assured.
These criteria are would normally be determined in a prefeasibility study is met when the gold leaves the mines smelt houses.
As instead obtained from the existing mine or development.
sales from gold contracts are subject to customer survey This information when combined with existing knowledge adjustment, sales are initially recorded on a provisional of the mineral property already being mined or developed basis using the groups best estimate of the contained allow the directors to conclude that more likely than not metal.
Subsequent adjustments are recorded in revenue the group will obtain future economic benefit from the to take into account final assay and weight certificates expenditures.
Costs relating to property acquisitions are from the refinery, if different from the initial certificates.
The capitalised within development costs.
differences between the estimated and actual contained gold have historically not been significant.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is Exploration and evaluation costs recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in The group expenses all exploration and evaluation the period in which the dividends are approved by the board expenditures until the directors conclude that a future of directors and declared to shareholders.
economic benefit is more likely than not of being realised, ie probable.
While the criteria for concluding that an Earnings per share expenditure should be capitalised is always probable, Earnings per share are computed by dividing net income the information that the directors use to make that by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in determination depends on the level of exploration.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on brownfield Diluted earnings per share sites, being those adjacent to mineral deposits which are Diluted earnings per share are presented when the already being mined or developed, is expensed as incurred inclusion of potential ordinary shares has a dilutive effect until the directors are able to demonstrate that future on earnings per share.
