NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila have legally binding mining 3.
Key accounting estimates and conventions which guarantee fiscal stability, govern judgements the taxes applicable to the companies and allow for Some of the accounting policies require the application international arbitration in the event a dispute cannot of significant judgement by management in selecting be resolved in the country.
Management continues to the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial engage with the Malian authorities at the highest level to estimates or determining the appropriate accounting resolve this issue.
During the prior year, Loulo submitted treatment for a transaction.
a request for arbitration at the International Centre of the Settlement of Investment Disputes against the State of B y their nature, these judgements are subject to an Mali in relation to certain of the disputed tax claims.
The inherent degree of uncertainty and are based on arbitration process is ongoing, with hearings expected in historical experience, terms of existing contracts, Q1 2015 and the outcome of the process is expected to managements view on trends in the gold mining be concluded during 2015. industry and information from outside sources.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Carrying values of property, plant and amounts of assets and liabilities within the next equipment and joint venture investments financial year are discussed below.
The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is any indication that these assets may be impaired.
TVA If such indication exists, the group estimates the Included in trade and other receivables are taxation recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable amount debtor receivables of $106.8 million 2013: $125.7 million is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use $80.5 million current and $26.3 million non-current being the net present value of expected future cash flows 2013: $76.7 million current and $49.0 million nonof the relevant cash generating unit and fair value less current consisting primarily of recoverable value added cost to sell.
The estimates used for impairment reviews tax TVA balances owing by the fiscal authorities in are based on detailed approved mine plans and operating Mali.
A further $50.5 million 2013: $36.4 million at plans.
Future cash flows are based on estimates of: 45% attributable share is included in the underlying The quantities of the proven and probable reserves statement of financial position of the Kibali joint venture.
being those for which there is a high degree of In Mali the TVA owing is being offset against other tax confidence in economic extraction: owing to the State, in accordance with the legal right of Future production levels: offset under the relevant mining conventions.
Future commodity prices, including oil forecast at $100bbl: Profit forecasts for the mine, using approved Future cash cost of production and capital expenditure budgets and mine plans, supports recovery of the associated with extraction of the proven and probable balance through such offsetting by 2018 2013: reserves in the approved mine plan: 2015, although the recovery and timing is subject Future gold prices a gold price curve from a leading to estimates of factors such as gold price and merchant bank was used for the impairment calculations production.
The gold price is consistent with that starting at a $1 250 oz gold price 2013: $1 250 oz and used in the groups impairment tests detailed below.
increasing at an average of 3%.
Beyond the gold curve We are also continuing to engage with authorities in Mali to accelerate the repayment of the outstanding period provided by the merchant bank, the board have TVA balances.
The group continues to seek recovery estimated the long term gold price increasing at 3%: and of TVA in the DRC, in line with the Mining Code and the a discount rate of 7.3% pre-tax 2013: 9.4%.
carrying value of the receivable has been assessed considering factors such as the level of receipts in the Production forecasts include a forecast increase in recovery period and to date, relationships and communications rates at Tongon from 78.0% to 87.5% for the remaining with government officials and the tax authority and the LoM, which is considered by the group to be an appropriate limited quantum of disputed submissions.
Judgement estimate given the capital programme that began in 2014 to exists in assessing recovery of these receivables.
However, headroom remains at current recovery rates.
Corporation tax claims T he group is in receipt of claims for various taxes The impairment tests did not indicate impairment and head from the State of Mali totalling $313.0 million 2013: room existed at each mine.
Given the significance of gold $123.0 million, in respect of the Loulo, Gounkoto and prices and the longevity of mine plans, the directors consider Morila 40% joint venture interest mines, together gold price and discount rate sensitivities to be relevant.
with Kankou Moussa, its Malian gold sales operation.
Having taken professional advice, the group considers A reduction in forward gold prices in excess of 16.5% is the material claims to be without foundation and is required to give rise to an impairment at the material mines.
strongly defending its position, including following the The discount rate would need to increase to 14.1% to give appropriate legal process for disputes within Mali.
rise to impairment at any of the mines with the greatest Accordingly, no material provision has been made for discount rate sensitivity being at Kibali.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 214 However, having considered such scenarios, the directors Changes in the gold price used could result in changes remain satisfied that no impairment is appropriate.
The in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations which models are considered suitably conservative with proven impact LoM plans.
Mine modelling is a complex process and probable reserves determined based on $1 000 oz gold and hence it is not feasible to perform sensitivities on gold price 2013: $1 000 oz as shown below.
price assumptions in respect of ore reserves.
Determination of ore reserves Capitalisation and depreciation The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral There are several methods for calculating depreciation, resources based on information compiled by Competent ie the straight line method, the production method using Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian ounces produced and the production method using Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral tonnes milled.
The directors believe that the tonnes milled Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the method is the best indication of plant and infrastructure JORC code.
Reserves determined in this way are used in usage.
Refer to note 2 for the depreciation policy.
the calculation of depreciation and amortisation, as well as Estimates are required regarding the allocation of assets the assessment of the carrying value of mining assets and to relevant proven and probable reserves in the units of timing of mine closure obligations.
There are numerous production calculations, with assessments involving the uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and groups mining, capital and geology departments.
Proven assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may and probable reserves are used in each depreciation change significantly when new information becomes calculation, which is considered to be a suitably available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, conservative measure of the future ore extractable exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates using existing assets.
Expenditure incurred to date in may change the economic status of reserves and may, underground infrastructure development, is depreciated ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
For over the remaining proven and probable reserves of the further information refer to exploration review in this underground mine, as the infrastructure provides access annual report.
to the future mining areas.
Future rehabilitation obligations The group applies judgment in allocating costs between The net present value of current rehabilitation estimates operating and capital items in respect of underground mining have been discounted to their present value at 2% per and in determining the date depreciation commences.
annum 2013: 2.5% being the prevailing risk free interest Costs are capitalised when the activity provides access rates.
Expenditure is generally expected to be incurred to future ore bodies and are expensed as operating costs at the end of the respective mine lives.
The group when the works involve extraction of ore from operational undertakes regular assessments by external experts of sections of the orebody.
Capitalised costs on underground its mine closure plans, together with assessments by development are depreciated when commercial extraction internal staff in the intervening periods, to determine the levels commence.
The nature of activity is assessed based required rehabilitation works, cost of works and timing on information provided by contractors, together with of such works.
Judgement is required in determining inspections by the groups mining teams.
the appropriate costs, timing of costs, discount rates and inflation.
The Morila rehabilitation estimate at Judgement is required in determining the point at which 31 December 2014, which is held in the underlying assets under construction at Kibali, such as the sulphide statement of financial position of the equity accounted circuit, began commercial production and should be joint venture, includes the impact of the approved tailings depreciated.
Depreciation start dates are determined storage facility retreatment programme, where the considering the factors detailed in note 2.
Additionally, given retreated tailings and non-viable tailings will be deposited ongoing mine construction and development, judgement in the pit.
For further information, including the carrying was required in allocating costs between operating costs, amounts of the liabilities, refer to note 14.
A 1% change ore stockpiles and ongoing capital works.
Costs have been in the discount rate on the groups rehabilitation estimates allocated based on the underlying activity and economic would result in an impact of $7.0 million 2013: $7.1 million benefits.
on the provision for environmental rehabilitation, and an impact of $0.5 million 2013: $0.5 million on the statement Gold price assumptions of comprehensive income.
The following gold prices were used in the mineral reserves Stockpiles, gold in process and product optimisation calculations: inventories $ oz 2014 2013 Costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive Morila 1 000 1 000 process are accumulated as stockpiles, gold in process Loulo 1 000 1 000 and product inventories.
Net realisable value tests are Tongon 1 000 1 000 performed at least annually and represent the estimated Kibali 1 000 1 000 future sales price of the product based on contained Massawa 1 000 1 000 gold and metals prices, less estimated costs to complete Gounkoto 1 000 1 000 production and bring the product to sale.
Judgement is Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 215
