Finance income and costs Finance income interest income 71 1 242 Finance income 71 1 242 Interest expense borrowings 2 965 1 373 Finance costs net foreign exchange loss on financing activities 41 5 049 Unwind of discount on provisions for environmental rehabilitation 1 229 1 315 Finance costs 4 235 7 737 Finance costs income net 4 164 6 495 Interest income arises on cash and cash equivalents.
Interest expenses arise on borrowings measured at amortised cost.
Non-GAAP information Randgold has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
As the measures are not defined under IFRS they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as these are considered to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
These measures are explained further below: Total cash costs and cash cost per ounce are non-GAAP measures.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce are calculated using guidance issued by the Gold Institute.
The Gold Institute was a non-profit industry association comprising leading gold producers, refiners, bullion suppliers and manufacturers.
This institute has now been incorporated into the National Mining Association.
The guidance was first issued in 1996 and revised in November 1999.
Total cash costs, as defined in the Gold Institutes guidance, include mine production, transport and refinery costs, general and administrative costs, movement in production inventories and ore stockpiles, transfers to and from deferred stripping where relevant and royalties.
Total cash costs and cash per ounce also include the companys share of equity accounted joint ventures total cash costs and cash cost per ounce.
T otal cash cost per ounce is calculated by dividing total cash costs, as determined using the Gold Institute guidance, by gold ounces sold for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce should not be considered by investors as an alternative to operating profit or net profit attributable to shareholders, as an alternative to other IFRS measures.
The data does not have a meaning prescribed by IFRS and therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to data presented by gold producers who do not follow the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
In particular depreciation and amortisation would be included in a measure of total costs of producing gold under IFRS, but are not included in total cash costs under the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
Furthermore, while the Gold Institute has provided a definition for the calculation of total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce, the calculation of these numbers may vary from company to company and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
However, Randgold believes that total cash cost per ounce is a useful indicator to investors and management of a mining companys performance as it provides an indication of a companys profitability and efficiency, the trends in cash costs as the companys operations mature, and a benchmark of performance to allow for comparison against other companies.
C ash operating costs and cash operating cost per ounce are calculated by deducting royalties from total cash costs.
Cash operating cost per ounce is calculated by dividing cash operating costs by gold ounces sold for the periods presented.
Total cash operating costs and cash operating cost per ounce include our share of joint ventures total operating cash costs and operating cash cost per ounce.
Gold sales is a non-GAAP measure.
It represents the sales of gold at spot and the gains losses on hedge contracts which have been delivered into at the designated maturity date.
It excludes gains losses on hedge contracts which have been rolled forward to match future sales.
This adjustment is considered appropriate because no cash is received paid in respect of these contracts.
Randgold currently does not have any hedge positions.
Gold sales include our share of our equity accounted joint ventures gold sales.
