S St ta at te em me en nt t o off d diir re ect ctor ors s r re es sp pon onsi sib biillit itie ies s an and d ap app pr ro ov val al o of f t th he e an ann nu ual al f fiin nan anc ciial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the annual financial statements in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
The directors have also chosen to prepare the financial statements for the group in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures group.
The directors also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
The directors also have general responsibility for selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, for making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for implementing appropriate controls to ensure that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error.
The directors are required to comply with the requirements of rule 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority in preparing this annual report.
After reviewing the groups and the companys budget for the next financial year and other longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts, available cash resources and funding facilities.
The viability of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm, BDO LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO LLPs audit report is presented on pages 197 to 199 of this annual report.
In accordance with articles 113B and 113C of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, the directors acknowledge the auditors right of access at all times to the company's records and acknowledge that it is an offence for anyone to recklessly or knowingly supply information to the auditors that is false or misleading and to fail to promptly provide information requested.
The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, presented on pages 200 to 242, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a true and fair view of the profit of the group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the group and parent company as at 31 December 2014.
The annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the group and the parent company: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 13 March 2015 and are signed on its behalf by: Mark Bristow Christopher Coleman Chief executive Chairman Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 196
