Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 1.
Significant accounting policies The company and its subsidiaries together with its joint The principal accounting policies applied in the ventures the group carry out exploration and gold preparation of these consolidated and company mining activities.
Currently there are three operating financial statements are set out below.
These policies mines in Mali, West Africa: the Morila gold mine equity have been consistently applied to all the years accounted JV, which started production in October presented, unless otherwise stated.
2000, the Loulo gold mine complex subsidiary, which commenced production in November 2005 and the Basis of preparation Gounkoto mine subsidiary, which began production The consolidated financial statements of Randgold in June 2011.
The group also operates a fourth mine Resources Limited and its subsidiaries and joint in Cte dIvoire, Tongon subsidiary, which started ventures have been prepared in accordance with production in December 2010.
The group also holds International Financial Reporting Standards and an effective 45% interest in the Kibali gold mine equity Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the accounted JV in the Democratic Republic of Congo International Accounting Standards Board IASB as DRC in conjunction with AngloGold Ashanti Limited adopted by the European Union and in accordance AngloGold Ashanti 45% and Socit Minire fide Kilowith Article 105 of the Companies Jersey Law of Moto sarl SOKIMO 10%.
Randgold is the operator of 1991.
The consolidated financial statements also the Morila, Loulo, Gounkoto, Tongon and Kibali mines.
comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing on NASDAQ in the US.
The The interests of the group in its operating mines are held consolidated financial statements have been prepared through Socit des Mines fide Morila SA Morila which under the historical cost convention, as modified by the owns the Morila mine, Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and Loulo which owns the Loulo mine, Socit des Mines various financial assets.
The preparation of financial fide Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine, statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA Gounkoto which certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires owns the Gounkoto mine and Kibali Goldmines SA management to exercise its judgement in the process Kibali, which owns the Kibali mine.
Randgold holds of applying the companys accounting policies.
an effective 40% interest in Morila in conjunction with The areas involving a high degree of judgement or AngloGold Ashanti 40% and the State of Mali 20%.
complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates Management of Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of are significant to the consolidated financial statements Morila, is effected through a joint venture committee, are disclosed in note 3. with Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of the committee.
Similarly, After reviewing the groups and companys budget for management of Kibali Jersey Limited, the effective the next financial year, and other longer term plans, 90% shareholder of Kibali, is effected through a joint the directors are satisfied, at the time of approving the venture committee, with Randgold and AngloGold financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Randgold holds an effective 80% The directors have no reason to believe that the interest in Loulo and Gounkoto.
The remaining 20% group and company will not be a going concern in the interest is held by the State of Mali.
Randgold holds foreseeable future based on forecasts and available an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is held by the cash resources and available facilities.
State of Cte dIvoire while the remaining 1% is held by a local Ivorian company.
New standards and interpretations applied The IASB has issued the following new standards, The group has a portfolio of exploration permits amendments to published standards and and projects, with various exploration programmes, interpretations to existing standards with effective ranging from early to substantial stage, underway in dates on or prior to 1 January 2014 which have been the Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Senegal and adopted by the group for the first time this year.
