Notes to the financial statements 1.1.
2 Going concern 1 General information and accounting In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the policies consolidated and Company financial statements, the directors General information have considered the issues impacting the Group during the The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries period as detailed in the strategic report on pages 4 to 45 and together the Group operate gaming and betting services have reviewed the Groups projected compliance with its in Great Britain including the Channel Islands, Spain banking covenants detailed in the finance review on page and Belgium.
Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts and operating The Company is a public limited company which is listed on budgets, and assuming that trading does not deteriorate the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled considerably from these projected levels, the directors in England and Wales under registration number 03140769. believe that the Group will generate sufficient cash to meet The address of its registered ofce is Statesman House, its borrowing requirements for at least 12 months from the Stafferton Way, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 1AY.
date of approval of the financial statements and comply with its banking covenants.
In accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations, the prior year comparatives for the Group balance sheet and Group 1.1.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements cash ow statement have been restated for the adjustments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS to the provisional amounts recognised on the acquisition of requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Gala Casino 1 Limited now Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited.
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process There is no impact on the income statement reported in the of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The amounts disclosed in the prior year were accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal the provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition to the actual results.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement Groups year end and the completion account process outlined or complexity, where assumptions and estimates are significant by the sale and purchase agreement extending beyond the to the consolidated financial statements, are set out below.
nalisation of the prior year financial statements.
Further a Estimated impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and details are provided in note 25. property, plant and equipment On 2 April 2013, the Group sold the assets and trademarks of The Group tests annually whether assets that have an its Blue Square Bet business.
In accordance with IFRS5 indefinite useful life, including goodwill and gaming licences, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued have suffered any impairment.
The Group also reviews assets Operations the results of Blue Square Bet have been classied that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for events or as discontinued in the prior period.
changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
Further details of the Summary of significant accounting policies Groups accounting policy in relation to impairment are The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation disclosed in note 1.13. of these consolidated and Company financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied The application of the policy requires the use of accounting to all periods presented.
estimates and judgements in determining the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to which the intangible 1.1 Basis of preparation assets and property, plant and equipment are associated.
The consolidated and Company financial statements have The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less been prepared under the historical cost convention.
costs to sell and value in use.
Estimates of fair value less costs 1.1.
1 Statement of compliance to sell are performed internally by experienced senior The consolidated and Company financial statements have management supported by knowledge of similar transactions been prepared in accordance with International Financial and advice from external estate agents or, if applicable, offers Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as received.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash ow adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act 2006 projections from financial budgets, discounted by selecting an applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
appropriate rate for each cash-generating unit.
Further details of the assumptions and estimates are disclosed in note 13.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 93 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued g Acquisition 1 General information and accounting The Group made an acquisition in the prior year.
Establishing policies continued the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities, notably b Classication of casino and other gaming licences as intangible assets with an indefinite life the valuation of the casino licences and property contracts, As disclosed in note 1.12, certain casino and other gaming required a number of estimates and judgements to be made.
licences have been classied as intangible assets with an The main judgements made in valuing the casino licences indefinite life.
This assumption is based on managements include using estimated cash ow projections, discounted belief that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over by selecting an appropriate rate.
The main judgement used in which the licences are expected to generate net cash inows valuing property contracts is the estimation of the open market and that each licence holds a value outside the property in rent at the date of acquisition for each property.
Open market which it resides.
As a consequence, each licence is reviewed rent was determined by a third party rm of property valuation annually for impairment.
See note 25 for further details.
c Recoverability of deferred tax assets 1.1.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures a Standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is standards adopted by the Group probable future taxable profit will be available against which The following new standards and amendments to existing the temporary differences can be utilised.
The key area of standards are mandatory for the first time for the financial judgement is therefore an assessment of whether it is probable period beginning 1 July 2013: that there will be suitable taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Further details of deferred IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting tax assets recognised are disclosed in note 21.
Standards Government Loans IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting d Income taxes Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement jurisdictions, including jurisdictions of now discontinued IAS19 Employee Benets Revised operations.
There are many transactions and calculations The Group has not been materially impacted by the adoption for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
of any of these standards or amendments.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will The Group has not early adopted any other standard, be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different amendment or interpretation that was issued but is not from the amount recognised, such differences will impact the yet effective.
financial statements in the period such determination is made.
b Standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing Further details of income tax are disclosed in note 18. standards that are not yet effective e Provisions The following standards, amendments to and interpretations Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy of existing standards have been published and are mandatory disclosed in note 1.10.
In calculating property lease provisions, for accounting periods starting after 1 July 2013: estimates are made of the discounted cash ows associated IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements Effective with the property and its associated operations including 1 January 2014 sub-let income together with estimates of any dilapidation IFRS11 Joint Arrangements Effective 1 January 2014 obligations.
Estimates have been made in determining the IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Effective amount and timing of disposal provisions, including legacy 1 January 2014 industrial disease and personal injury claims.
Estimates have IAS27 Separate Financial Statements Revised Effective also been made in determining the amount and likelihood of 1 January 2014 settlement of indirect tax provisions and restructuring provisions.
IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Revised Effective 1 January 2014 Further details of provisions made are disclosed in note 22.
IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting f Contingent assets and liabilities Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment Management is required to apply judgement in assessing Effective 1 January 2014 the probability of the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or IAS36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of Assets Effective 1 January 2014 the Company.
This judgement is supported by external advice IAS39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendment Effective 1 January 2014 and precedent case law where appropriate and is continually IFRIC21 Levies Effective 1 January 2014 assessed to ensure that developments are appropriately reected in the financial statements.
Further details of contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 31.
94 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 It is not anticipated that the adoption of the above standards, 1.4 Revenue recognition amendments and interpretations will have a material impact Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services on the Group or Company financial statements in the period net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
a Gaming win 1.2 Consolidation Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power of gaming related duties.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes to govern the financial and operating policies, generally before deduction of gaming related duties.
Revenue for digital accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of products, including interactive games and sports betting the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential discontinued in prior year, represents gaming win.
The fair voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible value of free bets, promotions and customer bonuses are also are considered when assessing whether the Group controls deducted from all revenue streams.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted for the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They and meets the denition of a gain under IAS39 Financial are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains b Food and beverage on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction point of sale.
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
1.5 Segment reporting Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have been Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision policies adopted by the Group.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the management 1.3 Business combinations and goodwill team the composition of which is disclosed on page 50 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition that makes strategic and operational decisions.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at 1.6 Foreign currency translation acquisition date fair value and the amount of any nonThe consolidated financial statements are presented in UK controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
are expensed and included in administrative expenses within Items included in the financial statements of each of the exceptional items.
Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial the functional currency.
assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classication and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, a Transactions and balances economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional the acquisition date.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the the settlement of such transactions and from the translation aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities transferred over the fair value of the net identiable amounts denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange income statement in finance costs or income.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill.
b Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group companies If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the none of which has the currency of a hyper-inationary consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the economy that have a functional currency different from assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the business the presentation currency are translated into the presentation acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
currency as follows: The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 95 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 1 General information and accounting subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective policies continued interest method, less provision for impairment.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
The b Cash and cash equivalents closing euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.25 30 June 2013: Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet include cash 1.17 and the closing US Dollar rate against UK Sterling was at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 1.70 30 June 2013: 1.53 : maturity of three months or less.
ii income and expenses for each income statement are For the purpose of the cash ow statement, cash and cash translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as dened reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and shown within loans and borrowings in current liabilities on expenses are translated at the rates prevailing on the dates of the balance sheet.
The average euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.8 Financial liabilities 1.20 year ended 30 June 2013: 1.21 and the average US Dollar Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS39 are classied rate against UK Sterling in the year was 1.64 year ended 30 as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans June 2013: 1.57 : and and borrowings or as derivatives designated as hedging iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group separate component of equity.
determines the classication of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement, net of hedging, A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, translated at the closing rate.
Financial liabilities also 1.7 Financial assets include onerous contracts, a policy for which is included Financial assets within the scope of IAS39 are classied as in note 1.10. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and a Trade and other payables receivables, held to maturity investments, available for sale Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
b Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, interest bearing loans A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive the and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost cash ows from the asset have expired, been transferred or an using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are obligation to pay the cash ows received to a third party recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are without material delay has been assumed, and either: derecognised as well as through the effective interest rate substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have method amortisation process.
been transferred: or Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that retained nor transferred, but control has been transferred.
are an integral part of the effective interest rate method.
The Groups financial assets include loans and receivables and The effective interest rate method amortisation is included cash and cash equivalents.
in finance costs in the income statement.
a Loans and receivables c Financial guarantee contracts Company only Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted those contracts that require a payment to be made to in an active market.
They are included in current assets, reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified when the asset is expected to be realised in the normal debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with operating cycle, otherwise they are classied as non-current the terms of a debt instrument.
Loans and receivables are classied as other receivables are initially measured at fair value by applying the estimated in the balance sheet.
probability of default to the cash outow should default occur and subsequently amortising over the expected length of the guarantee.
96 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 1.9 Leases 1.11 Property, plant and equipment Leases are tested at inception to determine whether the lease Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
For accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Such cost includes leases entered into prior to 1 January 2005, inception is deemed expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of to be 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying requirements of IFRIC4.
Property leases comprising a lease of amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split when it is probable that future economic benets associated into their two component parts before testing.
with the item will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are a Finance leases charged to the income statement during the financial period in Leases of property, plant and equipment which transfer which they are incurred.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are Depreciation is calculated on assets using the straight line capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the method to allocate their cost less residual values over their fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the estimated useful lives, as follows: present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment freehold and leasehold 50 years or lease term if less is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to property achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining refurbishment of property 5 to 20 years balance of the liability for each period.
The corresponding xtures, ttings, plant 3 to 20 years rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in and machinery loans and borrowings.
Finance charges are recognised in the Land is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance useful life of the asset or the lease term.
sheet date, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
b Operating leases An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised Leases of property, plant and equipment which do not transfer upon disposal or when no future economic benets are substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on Group are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between payments including any lease incentives or premiums are the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight is included in the income statement.
line basis over the lease term.
Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement 1.10 Provisions as incurred.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal 1.12 Intangible assets or constructive obligation as a result of past events if it is more a Goodwill likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
expenditures required to settle the obligation.
If the effect of Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment using a pre-tax rate that reects, where appropriate, the risks and carried at amortised cost as at 1 January 2004 plus cost specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase for any acquisition completed after 1 January 2004 less in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the finance cost.
disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, except where goodwill has been previously written off directly to reserves under previous GAAP.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 97 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which 1 General information and accounting an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
policies continued The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing group of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identiable there are separately identiable cash inows cash-generating group of assets that generates cash inows that are largely units.
The expected cash ows generated by the assets are independent of the cash inows from other assets or groups discounted using appropriate discount rates that reect the of assets.
time value of money and risks associated with the groups b Casino and other gaming licences and concessions of assets.
The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount licences and concessions.
Management believes that licences, of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable with the exception of the two casino concessions in Belgium, amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an exceptional have indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable limit to the expense in the income statement immediately.
period over which the licences are expected to generate net cash inows and each licence holds a value outside Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a the property in which it resides.
Each licence is reviewed cash-generating unit unless there is an indication that a annually for impairment.
class of assets should be impaired in the first instance or a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
Once an asset In respect of the two casino concessions in Belgium, their has been written down to its fair value less costs to sell then carrying value is amortised over the expected useful life any remaining impairment is allocated equally amongst all of the concessions.
Any costs in renewing licences or concessions are expensed Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying as incurred.
amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the c Other revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the the carrying amount that would have been determined had no specic software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating basis over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised within programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
exceptional items in the income statement immediately.
Costs that are directly associated with the production and 1.14 Employee benefit costs development of identiable and unique software products a Pension obligations controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate The Group operates a dened contribution plan under economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are which the Group pays xed contributions to a separate recognised as intangible assets for both externally purchased entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once and internally developed software.
Direct costs include the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are specic employee costs for software development.
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
relating to three former executives of the Group.
The amount 1.13 Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment and equipment is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to date, together with adjustment for actuarial gains or losses.
amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net cost whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that arising on the commitment is recognised in net finance costs.
the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
98 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 b Share-based compensation The proceeds received net of any directly attributable The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by and share premium when the options are exercised.
reference to the fair value at the date on which they are The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate with the recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability pricing model, further details of which are given in note 28. is re-measured to fair value at each reporting date up to and The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together including the settlement date.
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in When an award is modied from an equity-settled to a which the performance and or service conditions are fullled.
cash-settled basis, the total expense recognised comprises The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled the total of the grant date fair value that would have been transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date recognised under the original equity-settled basis, any reects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and incremental fair value arising from the modication of the the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments award and any re-measurement of the liability between its fair that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or value at the modication date and the amount nally settled.
credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative If the amount of the liability recognised on modication is charge recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
higher than the amount previously recognised as an increase No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately in equity then the increase in the liability is recognised as a vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is debit to equity.
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which c Share-based compensation Company are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market The Company operates share-based payment schemes for or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
of shares awarded to employees of the Company are recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are equity.
The Company also makes awards of its own shares to modied, the minimum expense recognised is the expense employees of its subsidiaries and as such recognises an increase as if the terms had not been modied, if the original terms in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its for any modication that increases the total fair value of the subsidiaries financial statements, with the corresponding share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial credit being recognised directly in equity.
to the employee as measured at the date of modication.
When an award is modied from an equity-settled to a Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as cash-settled basis, the Company retains the obligation to settle if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense such awards.
Consequently, on the recognition of a liability by not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
the parent, the corresponding debit is recognised directly in This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within equity.
In the event that subsidiaries of the Company settle the the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
obligation on the parent companys behalf, such a payment is However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, treated as a distribution to the parent.
and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they d Bonus plans were a modication of the original award, as described in the The Group recognises a liability in respect of the best estimate previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled of bonuses payable where contractually obliged to do so or transaction awards are treated equally.
where a past practice has created a constructive obligation.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 99 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued c Sales tax 1 General information and accounting Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the policies continued amount of sales tax except: 1.15 Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in a first-in first-out basis.
which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as The cost of nished goods comprises goods purchased applicable: and for resale.
receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business.
When necessary, provision The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
1.16 Taxation a Current tax 1.17 Share capital Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
periods are measured as the amount expected to be paid or 1.18 Discontinued operations and held for sale assets to be recovered from the taxation authorities.
The tax rates Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet the enacted or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
criteria to be classied as held for sale and represent a separate Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity major line of business or geographic area of operations.
is recognised in equity and not the income statement.
Operations held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the dates they are classied as held for sale and fair Management evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with value less costs to sell.
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation at each reporting date and establishes Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for provisions where appropriate.
sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition b Deferred tax is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets its present condition.
Management must be committed to the and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a statements.
However, if deferred tax arises from the initial completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the 1.19 Dividends transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid at loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using the period end are not recognised in the financial statements tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively until they have been approved by shareholders at the annual enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply general meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred 1.20 Exceptional items tax liability is settled.
The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is by their size or nature in relation to either the Group or probable that future taxable profit will be available against individual segments, are separately disclosed in order to give which the temporary differences can be utilised.
a full understanding of the Groups financial performance and aid comparability of the Groups result between periods.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
100 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 2 Segmental reporting a Segment information operating segments Year ended 30 June 2014 Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha Central Venues Digital Venues Digital Venues Digital costs m m m m m m m Total m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 377.7 13.5 229.3 58.9 28.3 707.7 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 3.7 3.1 12.5 9.9 29.2 Segment revenue 374.0 10.4 216.8 49.0 28.3 678.5 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 57.7 0.9 21.1 15.9 1.2 0.4 22.2 72.4 Exceptional loss 12.5 25.3 8.7 46.5 Segment result 45.2 0.9 4.2 15.9 7.5 0.4 22.2 25.9 Finance costs 14.4 Finance income 1.9 Other financial gains 1.0 profit before taxation 14.4 Taxation 3.0 profit for the year from continuing operations 17.4 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 34.1 1.4 6.3 1.9 1.3 1.6 46.6 Depreciation and amortisation 22.1 2.0 13.8 2.4 2.1 1.2 43.6 Impairment charges 5.3 1.1 7.5 13.9 Impairment reversals 0.8 0.7 1.5 Net charge to provision for property leases 3.6 2.1 0.9 6.6 Net charge to provision for indirect taxation 3.7 22.4 26.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 101 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Year ended 30 June 2013 Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha Central Venues Digital Venues Digital Venues Digital costs m m m m m m m Total m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 290.5 9.8 234.9 61.3 28.5 625.0 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 3.7 2.2 14.2 8.7 28.8 Segment revenue 286.8 7.6 220.7 52.6 28.5 596.2 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 49.5 2.1 23.0 21.1 1.6 0.9 22.3 69.9 Exceptional loss profit 15.0 2.0 0.3 1.0 17.7 Segment result 34.5 2.1 21.0 21.1 1.9 0.9 23.3 52.2 Finance costs 9.4 Finance income 0.2 Other financial losses 0.3 profit before taxation 42.7 Taxation 13.8 profit for the year from continuing operations 28.9 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 21.1 0.4 9.1 0.8 1.4 6.2 39.0 Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 1.5 14.6 1.5 2.4 1.2 38.9 Impairment charges 3.7 1.6 4.1 9.4 Impairment reversals 3.6 0.7 4.4 8.7 Net charge to provision for property leases 0.1 1.1 0.3 1.5 Net charge to provision for indirect taxation 6.4 6.4 The Group reports segmental information on a brand-led basis, which is consistent with the means by which the chief operating decision maker utilises internal reporting within the business.
This brand-led structure better enables management to reect the needs of our customers throughout the various activities of the business.
These activities are both venues-based and digital-based casino operations in Grosvenor Casinos, plus venues-based and digital-based bingo operations both in Mecca and in its Spanish bingo brand Enracha.
Further information about each brand is disclosed on pages 31 Grosvenor Casinos, 33 Mecca and 34 Enracha.
Assets and liabilities have not been segmented as this information is not provided to the chief operating decision maker on a regular basis.
Capital expenditure comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, including those acquired under finance leases.
102 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 b Geographical information The Group operates in two main geographical areas UK and continental Europe.
i Revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m UK 636.1 552.9 Continental Europe 42.4 43.3 Total revenue 678.5 596.2 ii Non-current assets by geographical area based on location of assets As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m UK 577.8 580.1 Continental Europe 30.3 40.9 Segment non-current assets 608.1 621.0 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets 2.5 2.6 Financial assets 2.7 2.2 Total non-current assets 613.3 625.8 With the exception of the UK, no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
c Total revenue and profit from continuing and discontinued operations Revenue profit loss Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m m m From continuing operations 678.5 596.2 17.4 28.9 From discontinued operations 5 9.5 2.8 1.9 678.5 605.7 20.2 27.0 d Total cost analysis by segment To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include an additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment.
A reconciliation of total costs, before exceptional items, by type and segment is as follows: Year ended 30 June 2014 Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha Central Venues Digital Venues Digital Venues Digital costs Total m m m m m m m m Employment and related costs 137.7 2.0 55.2 6.5 13.4 0.2 15.2 230.2 Taxes and duties 78.1 48.1 0.4 2.1 2.0 130.7 Direct costs 15.6 3.9 21.0 14.5 2.5 0.1 57.6 Property costs 29.9 0.2 27.6 0.7 2.5 0.9 61.8 Marketing 13.2 2.6 10.4 7.0 0.9 34.1 Depreciation and amortisation 22.1 2.0 13.8 2.4 2.1 1.2 43.6 Other 19.7 0.6 19.6 1.6 3.6 0.1 2.9 48.1 Total costs on continuing operations before exceptional items 316.3 11.3 195.7 33.1 27.1 0.4 22.2 606.1 Cost of sales 380.0 Operating costs 226.1 Total costs on continuing operations before exceptional items 606.1 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 103 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Year ended 30 June 2013 Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha Central Venues Digital Venues Digital Venues Digital costs Total m m m m m m m m Employment and related costs 103.9 2.1 59.3 3.4 13.8 0.2 15.6 198.3 Taxes and duties 63.8 0.3 43.0 1.5 1.9 1.6 112.1 Direct costs 10.6 3.3 22.6 14.0 2.8 0.6 53.9 Property costs 19.8 0.3 27.0 0.6 2.0 0.9 50.6 Marketing 8.9 2.0 11.0 10.0 0.8 0.3 33.0 Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 1.5 14.6 1.5 2.4 1.2 38.9 Other 12.6 0.2 20.2 0.5 3.2 0.1 2.7 39.5 Total costs on continuing operations before exceptional items 237.3 9.7 197.7 31.5 26.9 0.9 22.3 526.3 Cost of sales 329.6 Operating costs 196.7 Total costs on continuing operations before exceptional items 526.3 3 Profit for the year analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit for the year before nancing and taxation from continuing operations: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Employee benefit expense 208.2 181.9 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 33.1 24.3 Amortisation of intangibles including 0.9m year ended 30 June 2013: 1.4m within cost of sales 6.4 4.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets including 32.4m year ended 30 June 2013: 29.7m within cost of sales 34.1 31.3 under finance leases included within cost of sales 3.1 3.1 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 50.3 43.5 sub-lease income 5.2 4.0 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 Exceptional operating costs see note 4 46.5 17.7 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.4 In the year, the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, including its network rms, earned the following fees: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 tax services 0.2 0.2 transaction support services 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.7 25,000 year ended 30 June 2013: 23,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the benefit of taking advice from the leading rm in the area concerned and the desirability of being efficient.
104 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 4 Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations Impairment charges 11,12,13 12.9 9.4 Impairment reversals 11,12,13 1.5 8.7 Net charge to provisions for property leases 22 6.6 1.5 Acquisition and integration costs 1.7 8.5 Restructuring costs 0.7 Net charge to provision for indirect taxation 22 26.1 6.4 Charge to accruals for indirect taxation 0.6 Exceptional operating costs 46.5 17.7 Finance costs 6 4.3 4.2 Finance income 6 1.8 Taxation 7 13.6 2.7 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 35.4 19.2 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Charge to provision for indirect taxation 5.8 Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs 2.0 Finance costs 6 0.3 0.6 Finance income 6 0.3 1.2 Taxation 7 2.8 10.9 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 2.8 3.7 Total exceptional items 32.6 15.5 Year ended 30 June 2014 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges The Group recognised an impairment charge of 5.4m in the UK of which 4.3m relates to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 1.1m to Mecca venues.
The only individually significant charges are 4.1m in respect of a single club in Grosvenor Casinos venues and 0.7m in respect of a single club in Mecca venues.
Performance at these clubs has not been in line with expectations.
A further impairment charge of 7.5m has been recognised in respect of three clubs in the Enracha venues business which have not performed in line with expectations.
This has followed a prolonged period of difficult economic conditions in Spain.
A further impairment charge of 1.0m is included within integration costs relating to essential post-acquisition capital expenditure, including signage, at a small number of casinos that were fully impaired as part of the acquisition accounting.
Impairment reversals The Group has reversed previous impairment charges of 0.7m in the UK, all of which relates to Mecca venues.
The reversal is in respect of two clubs where changes in the competitive and commercial environment have led to improvements in performance.
A further reversal of 0.8m has been made in respect of a casino in Belgium, which has shown continuing improved performance above expectations.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 105 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Exceptional items continued Net charge to provisions for property leases The Group has recognised a net charge of 6.6m in relation to provisions for property leases in the year.
This includes a charge of 6.8m in two Grosvenor Casinos venues and three Mecca venues for unavoidable dilapidation costs and where expected income no longer exceeds the unavoidable costs associated with these sites.
A further charge of 1.6m has been made in respect of property lease costs directly attributable to the restructuring activities outlined below.
A release to the income statement of 1.8m has been recognised in respect of two Mecca venues where anticipated performance, following the reduction in bingo duty, means that expected income will exceed the unavoidable costs associated with these sites.
Acquisition and integration costs In the prior year the Group acquired 19 casinos and 3 non-operating licences from Gala Coral Group Limited see note 25.
The Group has expensed the resulting costs of integration during the year of 1.7m.
The integration was successfully completed during the year and no further integration costs are expected.
Restructuring costs During the year the Group recognised an exceptional cost of 0.7m relating to the closure of one Mecca venue and one Enracha venue and the provision for the further cost associated with the closure of two further Mecca venues and exit of one Enracha venue in early 2014 15.
Included within the charge to provisions for property leases is a further charge of 1.6m connected with remaining property lease obligations at these venues.
Net charge to provision for indirect taxation In the prior year the Group disclosed a contingent liability in respect of a claim for repayment of output VAT on amusement machines.
In May 2010, the Group received 30.7m VAT of 26.4m plus interest of 4.3m in respect of the claim, which has been the subject of ongoing litigation.
During the year, the Court of Appeal found in favour of HMRC and consequently an amount of 26.4m was provided to cover the expected outow, together with associated interest of 4.3m.
In May 2014 a payment was made to HMRC in respect of these claims, with the remaining balance being the directors best estimate of the outow likely to arise.
The Group has been granted leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, and it therefore remains possible that the Group will not ultimately be liable for these amounts.
This appeal will be held in April 2015.
The Group also released 0.3m following the settlement in the year of the indirect taxation balances provided for in the prior year.
Year ended 30 June 2013 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges The Group recognised an impairment charge of 3.4m in the UK of which 1.8m related to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 1.6m to Mecca venues.
The only individually significant charges in Grosvenor Casinos venues were 1.1m in respect of a non-operating licence, to reect local market conditions, and 0.5m in respect of an E-casino which had not performed in line with expectations.
The only individually significant charge in Mecca venues was 0.6m in respect of a club which had not performed in line with expectations.
A further impairment charge of 1.9m was recognised in respect of a casino in Belgium and 4.1m in respect of two clubs in the Enracha venues business which had not performed in line with expectations.
Impairment reversals The Group reversed previous impairment charges of 1.9m in the UK, of which 1.2m related to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 0.7m related to Mecca venues.
The reversal in Grosvenor Casinos was in respect of two casinos where changes in the competitive environment led to improvements in performance.
The reversal in Mecca venues was in respect of three clubs which saw a sustained improvement in performance and an uplift in the freehold value of a further property.
A further reversal of 2.4m was made in respect of a casino in Belgium, which had shown improved performance following agreement of a third party digital licence agreement.
The Enracha venues business had an impairment reversal of 4.4m following better than expected recovery from the effects of the smoking ban at two venues.
106 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Property leases The Group recognised a charge of 1.5m in relation to provisions for property leases.
A charge of 1.1m was made in respect of one Mecca lease where the unavoidable costs exceeded the expected income.
The remaining charge of 0.4m was in respect of leases where there had been a change in expected sub-let income as a consequence of the financial position of associated tenants.
Acquisition and integration costs During the prior year the Group acquired 19 casinos and 3 non-operating licences from Gala Coral Group Limited see note 25.
The Group expensed the costs of the acquisition and resulting integration incurred during the prior year of 8.5m.
Further details are provided in the table below: Year ended 30 June 2013 m Acquisition costs 7.4 Loss on disposal of Edinburgh non-operating casino licence 0.4 Integration costs 0.7 Total 8.5 The disposal of the Edinburgh non-operating licence was required in order to obtain Competition Commission clearance for the acquisition.
Acquisition costs represented professional fees incurred, including the costs of dealing with the Ofce of Fair Trading and the Competition Commission.
Indirect taxation The Group recognised a provision of 6.4m and an accrual of 0.6m in relation to a historic indirect taxation issue.
Discontinued exceptional items Indirect taxation The Group recognised a provision of 5.8m in relation to a historic indirect taxation issue in the Blue Square Bet business.
Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs On 2 April 2013, the Group agreed terms to sell the assets and trademarks of its loss-making Blue Square Bet business for consideration of 5.0m.
The Blue Square Bet business operated solely in the digital channel of the highly competitive sports betting market.
The table below provides further details of the net exceptional loss of 2.0m recognised in respect of the disposal and related costs: Year ended 30 June 2013 m Proceeds received 5.0 Impairment of assets 3.6 Redundancy and restructuring costs 2.5 Onerous contracts 0.9 Exceptional loss 2.0 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 107 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Discontinued operations In the prior year the Group disposed of its loss-making Blue Square Bet business.
In accordance with IFRS5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the results of the Blue Square Bet business were classied as discontinued.
No results were attributable to Blue Square Bet in the current year, although the Group continued to discharge legacy liabilities relating to the business.
Discontinued operations, other than those disclosed within exceptional items see note 4, related to the disposal of the loss making Blue Square Bet business.
A breakdown of results of this operation is shown below: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Revenue 9.5 Operating loss 7.4 Taxation 1.8 Loss after taxation 5.6 Other information: Depreciation and amortisation 1.4 Capital expenditure 1.1 Cash ows relating to discontinued operations are as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Operating loss 7.4 Depreciation and amortisation 1.4 Interest paid 0.2 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 6.4 2.0 Cash ows from operating activities 6.6 8.0 Cash ows from investing activities 1.1 Cash ows from nancing activities 6.6 9.1 The disposal of the Blue Square Bet business has given rise to the following cash ow reported in investing activities: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Gross cash consideration received 5.0 Payment to purchaser for customer account balances disposed 2.6 Disposal of business 2.4 108 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 6 Financing Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: 1 Interest on debt and borrowings 6.4 1.9 1 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 1.5 1.1 Interest payable on finance leases 1.0 0.9 Unwinding of discount in property lease provisions 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.1 0.2 Total finance costs 10.1 5.2 Finance income: 1 Interest income on short-term bank deposits 0.1 0.2 Total finance income 0.1 0.2 Other financial gains losses 1.0 0.3 Total net nancing charge for continuing operations before exceptional items 9.0 5.3 Exceptional finance costs 4.3 4.2 Exceptional finance income 1.8 Total net nancing charge for continuing operations 11.5 9.5 Discontinued operations: Exceptional finance costs 0.3 0.6 Exceptional finance income 0.3 1.2 Total net finance income for discontinued operations 0.6 Total net nancing charge 11.5 8.9 1 Calculated using the effective interest method.
Exceptional finance costs recognised in continuing operations in the year of 4.3m year ended 30 June 2013: 4.2m are in respect of indirect taxation balances provided for in the current year, and direct and indirect taxation balances provided for in the prior year.
Exceptional finance income recognised in continuing operations in the year of 1.8m year ended 30 June 2013: nil is in respect of the release of interest over-accrued on direct and indirect taxation balances provided for.
Exceptional discontinued finance costs recognised in discontinued operations in the year of 0.3m relate to a decrease in interest receivable in respect of direct taxation receivables that are attributable to disposed entities.
Exceptional discontinued finance costs recognised in discontinued operations in the prior year of 0.6m were in respect of indirect taxation balances provided for.
Exceptional finance income recognised in discontinued operations in the year of 0.3m relates to a reduction in interest accrued on indirect taxation provisions now settled.
Exceptional finance income in discontinued operations in the prior year of 1.2m was in respect of an expected taxation refund attributable to discontinued activities.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 109 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Financing continued A reconciliation of the total net nancing charge for continuing operations before exceptional items to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Total net nancing charge for continuing operations before exceptional items 9.0 5.3 Adjust for: Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.1 0.2 Other financial gains losses including foreign exchange 1.0 0.3 Adjusted net interest payable 9.9 4.8 7 Taxation Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 12.4 12.4 12.7 1.8 10.9 Current income tax overseas 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Current income tax charge credit 12.8 12.8 13.3 1.8 11.5 Current income tax on exceptional items 7.8 7.8 3.1 0.4 3.5 Amounts over provided in previous period 5.0 2.8 7.8 1.3 1.3 Amounts over under provided in previous period on exceptional items 2.3 2.3 0.3 10.7 10.4 Total current income tax credit charge 2.3 2.8 5.1 9.2 12.9 3.7 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 1.3 1.3 3.0 3.0 Deferred tax overseas 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Restatement of deferred tax from 23.0% to 20.0% 2.6 2.6 Deferred tax on exceptional items 3.5 3.5 0.1 0.1 Amounts under provided in previous period 3.8 3.8 1.3 1.3 Amounts under provided in previous period on exceptional items 0.2 0.2 Total deferred tax credit charge note 21 0.7 0.7 4.6 0.2 4.8 Tax credit charge in the income statement 3.0 2.8 5.8 13.8 12.7 1.1 The tax on the Groups profit before taxation on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax in the period of 22.5% year ended 30 June 2013: 23.75%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m profit before taxation on continuing operations 14.4 42.7 Tax charge calculated at 22.5% on profit before taxation on continuing operations year ended 30 June 2013: 23.75% 3.2 10.1 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 3.1 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.6 Restatement of deferred tax from 23.0% to 20.0% 2.6 Adjustments relating to prior periods 3.5 0.3 Deferred tax not recognised in period 0.4 0.3 Tax credit charge in the income statement on continuing operations 3.0 13.8 110 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Tax on exceptional items continuing operations The taxation impacts of continuing exceptional items are disclosed below: Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013 Current Current income tax Deferred tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Impairment charges 3.1 3.1 0.7 0.7 Impairment reversals 0.8 0.8 Net charge to provisions for property leases 0.9 0.4 1.3 0.4 0.4 Acquisition and integration costs 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 Restructuring costs 0.1 0.1 Net charge to provision for indirect taxation 5.9 5.9 1.7 1.7 Exceptional finance costs 1.0 1.0 0.6 0.6 Exceptional finance income 0.2 0.2 Amounts over under provided in respect of previous years 2.3 2.3 0.4 0.4 Tax credit charge on exceptional items continuing operations 10.1 3.5 13.6 2.8 0.1 2.7 Tax on exceptional items discontinued operations The taxation impacts of discontinued exceptional items are disclosed below: Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013 Current Current income tax Deferred tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Tax refunds arising on previously disposed subsidiary undertakings 2.8 2.8 6.6 0.2 6.4 Provision for indirect taxation 1.6 1.6 Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs 1.1 1.1 Release of provisions relating to overseas tax audits 2.1 2.1 Exceptional finance income 0.3 0.3 Tax credit charge on exceptional items discontinued operations 2.8 2.8 11.1 0.2 10.9 Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Current income tax charge credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benets 0.1 Total tax charge credit on items within other comprehensive income 0.1 0.2 The debit in respect of employee share schemes included within the Statement of Changes in Equity includes a deferred tax charge of 0.3m year ended 30 June 2013: credit of 0.3m and a current tax credit of nil year ended 30 June 2013: 0.2m.
Factors affecting future taxation UK corporation tax is calculated at 22.5% year ended 30 June 2013: 23.75% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Taxation for overseas operations is calculated at the local prevailing rates.
On 20 March 2013, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015.
These changes were substantively enacted in July 2013.
8 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The loss for the year ended 30 June 2014 for the Company was 16.0m year ended 30 June 2013: loss of 27.2m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 111 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Dividends paid to equity holders Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Dividends paid to equity holders Final dividend for 2011 12 paid on 31 October 2012 2.50p per share 9.8 Interim dividend for 2012 13 paid on 22 March 2013 1.25p per share 4.9 Final dividend for 2012 13 paid on 23 October 2013 2.85p per share 11.1 Interim dividend for 2013 14 paid on 21 March 2014 1.35p per share 5.3 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.1 16.4 14.6 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014 of 3.15p per share, amounting to a total dividend of 12.3m, is to be recommended at the annual general meeting on 16 October 2014.
These financial statements do not reect this dividend payable.
10 Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Year ended 30 June 2014 Year ended 30 June 2013 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total profit attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 52.8m 35.4 m 17.4m 48.1m 19.2 m 28.9m Discontinued operations 2.8m 2.8m 5.6 m 3.7m 1.9 m Total 52.8m 32.6 m 20.2m 42.5m 15.5 m 27.0m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.6m 390.6m 390.6m Basic earnings per share Continuing operations 13.5p 9.0 p 4.5p 12.3p 4.9 p 7.4p Discontinued operations 0.7p 0.7p 1.4 p 0.9p 0.5 p Total 13.5p 8.3 p 5.2p 10.9p 4.0 p 6.9p b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The only category of dilutive potential ordinary shares is share options.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
There is no difference in the profit used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share.
There is no dilutive impact of share options on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue or on earnings per share.
c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
112 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m profit attributable to equity shareholders 20.2 27.0 Adjust for: Discontinued operations net of taxation 2.8 1.9 Exceptional items after tax on continuing operations 35.4 19.2 Other financial gains losses 1.0 0.3 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.1 0.2 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in tax rate 3.3 0.1 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders m 48.6 48.5 Adjusted earnings per share p basic 12.4p 12.4p Adjusted earnings per share p diluted 12.4p 12.4p 11 Intangible assets Casino and other gaming licences and Property Goodwill concessions contracts Other Total Group m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2012 53.4 120.0 49.8 223.2 Exchange adjustments 2.7 2.7 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 80.9 150.1 3.7 234.7 Disposals 23.4 23.4 Additions 0.5 6.7 7.2 At 30 June 2013 restated 134.3 273.3 3.7 33.1 444.4 Exchange adjustments 2.8 2.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Additions 5.8 7.7 13.5 At 30 June 2014 134.3 276.3 3.7 40.7 455.0 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 July 2012 31.7 37.8 69.5 Exchange adjustments 1.8 1.8 Charge for the year 0.8 0.1 4.8 5.7 Disposals 23.4 23.4 Impairment charges 4.9 3.5 8.4 Impairment reversals 6.8 6.8 At 30 June 2013 32.4 0.1 22.7 55.2 Exchange adjustments 2.1 2.1 Charge for the year 0.8 0.3 5.3 6.4 Impairment charges 6.1 6.1 Impairment reversals 0.8 0.8 At 30 June 2014 36.4 0.4 28.0 64.8 Net book value at 30 June 2012 53.4 88.3 12.0 153.7 Net book value at 30 June 2013 restated 134.3 240.9 3.6 10.4 389.2 Net book value at 30 June 2014 134.3 239.9 3.3 12.7 390.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 113 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Intangible assets continued Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally-generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 5.0m 30 June 2013: 4.7m.
Property contracts arise as a fair value adjustment in respect of favourable property contracts on the acquisition of the 19 casinos in the prior year.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 13.
Impairment charges for the year of 6.1m year ended 30 June 2013: 8.4m include 6.1m year ended 30 June 2013: 4.8m in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations and nil year ended 30 June 2013: 3.6m in respect of exceptional items relating to discontinued operations.
The exceptional impairment charge relating to discontinued operations in the prior year arose on the disposal of the Blue Square Bet business.
12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Land and plant and buildings machinery Total Group m m m Cost At 1 July 2012 131.2 440.0 571.2 Exchange adjustments 0.7 3.2 3.9 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 7.1 10.8 17.9 Additions 2.1 30.8 32.9 Disposals 0.5 11.1 11.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.2 2.2 At 30 June 2013 restated 138.4 473.7 612.1 Exchange adjustments 0.7 3.9 4.6 Additions 3.8 29.5 33.3 Disposals 3.5 3.6 7.1 Transfer from assets held for sale 2.2 2.2 At 30 June 2014 140.2 495.7 635.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 July 2012 72.2 281.2 353.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.4 2.5 Charge for the year 3.4 31.3 34.7 Impairment charges 0.4 4.2 4.6 Impairment reversals 1.3 0.6 1.9 Disposals 10.4 10.4 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.9 1.9 At 30 June 2013 72.9 308.1 381.0 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.5 2.6 Charge for the year 3.9 33.3 37.2 Impairment charges 1.2 6.6 7.8 Impairment reversals 0.4 0.3 0.7 Disposals 3.0 3.2 6.2 Transfer from assets held for sale 1.9 1.9 At 30 June 2014 76.4 342.0 418.4 Net book value at 30 June 2012 59.0 158.8 217.8 Net book value at 30 June 2013 restated 65.5 165.6 231.1 Net book value at 30 June 2014 63.8 153.7 217.5 114 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Impairment charges for the year of 7.8m year ended 30 June 2013: 4.6m are in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations.
1.0m of this amount year ended 30 June 2013: nil has been included in integration costs within exceptional items.
Finance leases The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Land and buildings 6.8 5.5 Fixtures, ttings, plant and machinery 3.7 5.8 Net book value at end of period 10.5 11.3 There were 2.3m year ended 30 June 2013: 0.8m of additions under finance leases during the year.
Assets under construction Included in property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction of 1.9m year ended 30 June 2013: 1.9m.
Assets held for sale As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Land and buildings 0.3 The sale of one freehold property in Mecca venues has not completed in the year as expected due to unforeseen planning issues.
These issues still remain to be resolved and accordingly the property has been reclassied to property, plant and equipment.
13 Impairment review The pre-tax discount rate applied to all cash ow projections is 10.0% 30 June 2013: 10.0%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specic circumstances of the Group and its cash generating units CGU and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the discount rate is appropriate for each CGU as they operate in gaming markets with similar risks as set out below.
As the Group operates in Great Britain including the Channel Islands, Spain and Belgium, country risk has been recognised in the cash ow forecasts, rather than adjusting the discount rate.
a Impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
In accordance with IAS36, goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
In addition, the Group classies casino licences with the exception of its concessions in Belgium and Spanish bingo licences as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
i Goodwill At 30 June 2014, the Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 134.3m 30 June 2013: 134.3m.
80.9m of this goodwill arose on the acquisition of 19 casinos during the prior year, further details of which are provided in note 25.
The remaining 53.4m of goodwill arose on the acquisition of Rank Digital Limited.
All of this goodwill is allocated to the Mecca digital CGU for the purposes of impairment testing.
In respect of the Mecca digital CGU, the recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on the Groups budget for 2014 15, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 30 June 2013: 2.0% thereafter.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are settled stakes, gaming win margins, gaming duty and the discount rate.
Settled stakes represent monies placed by customers for interactive games and are estimated taking into account the product mix and industry developments.
Gaming win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
Gaming duty is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The calculation includes the impact of the introduction of remote gaming duty at a rate of 15% on a place of consumption basis from December 2014.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 115 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Impairment review continued As a result of the impairment testing, the directors do not believe that the carrying value of the goodwill was impaired as the value in use exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
The key factors which impact the calculation of the carrying value include: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Poor or decreased marketing Settled stakes Failure to respond to technological advances Settled stakes Deterioration in economic environment Settled stakes Changes in regulation Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Changes in taxation Remote gaming duty Based on these key assumptions and resulting projections, the recoverable amount of the CGU exceeds its carrying amount by in excess of 30.0m.
A decrease of approximately 8% in either settled stakes or win margin would be required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
A rise in remote gaming duty from 15% to approximately 19% would be required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
These calculations assume all other assumptions remain constant and therefore do not reect any cost saving measures that may be identied should a key assumption be impacted to this magnitude.
In respect of the goodwill which arose on the acquisition of 19 casinos in the prior year, the combined casinos acquired are treated as a single CGU.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections of the combined casinos from the Groups budget for 2014 15, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% thereafter.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, casino duty, machine games duty and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits by members to casinos and have been based on historic trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent per visit on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has also been determined by historic trends.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels without indexation.
Machine games duty is levied at rates of 5% or 20% depending upon certain criteria.
The table below outlines the possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of the individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Casino duty, Machine games duty Based on these key assumptions and resulting projections, the recoverable amount of the CGU exceeds its carrying amount by in excess of 89.0m.
A decrease of approximately 8% in either customer visits or spend per visit would be required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
A rise in gaming related taxes from the current blended rate of 18.0% to 24.5% across the combined casinos would be required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
ii Casino licences The carrying value of indefinite life casino licences as at 30 June 2014 was 231.3m 30 June 2013: 225.4m.
150.1m of this value arose on the acquisition of 19 casinos during the prior year, further details of which are provided in note 25.
The remaining 81.2m of this balance 30 June 2013: 75.3m relates to existing Grosvenor casinos.
116 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 The inherent value of a casino licence is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operation of a casino as a whole and are therefore not split out from each casino in an impairment review.
Each Grosvenor casino, including the casinos acquired during the prior year, has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash ow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years for freehold properties, based on the Groups budget for 2014 15, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 30 June 2013: 2.0% thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by experienced senior management supported by knowledge of similar transactions or, where applicable, offers received.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends.
The table below outlines the possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Casino duty, Machine games duty The Group operates 56 venues in the UK each of which is treated as a single CGU for the purposes of impairment testing.
The level by which the recoverable amount of each CGU exceeds its carrying amount therefore varies at each venue and the impact of changes in key assumptions that would be required for the recoverable amount to equal its carrying amount also varies at each casino.
For UK casino licences at venues, excluding the 19 casinos acquired in the prior year, the directors do not believe that, with the exception of a prolonged non-operation of a UK casino licence, there are any reasonably foreseeable changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material impairment.
The initial carrying value of each of the 19 casinos acquired in the prior year was established based on its fair value at the date of the acquisition.
Accordingly, should performance of any individual casino acquired in the prior year fall below expectations, future impairment charges may arise.
A fall in expected cash ow projections of at least 18% would be required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of any individual CGU.
No impairment charges were made during the year against indefinite life casino licences year ended 30 June 2013: 1.1m.
The two casino concessions in Belgium are being amortised over their expected useful life.
At 30 June 2014 these concessions had a carrying value of 4.8m 30 June 2013: 5.3m.
Each of the casino concessions has also been treated as a separate CGU for impairment testing purposes.
As a result of this review an impairment reversal of 0.8m has been recognised in respect of one concession.
iii Spanish bingo licences The carrying value of Spanish bingo licences as at 30 June 2014 was 3.8m 30 June 2013: 10.2m.
The inherent value of each Spanish bingo licence is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of a club as a whole and is not therefore split out from the assets of each individual bingo club in an impairment review.
Each individual bingo club has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Spanish bingo club, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use calculation has been determined using cash ow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years in the case of freehold properties, based on a zero growth assumption from 2013 14 results 30 June 2013: 2.0% growth, reecting the prolonged period of difficult economic conditions in Spain.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Impairment review continued The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, bingo duty and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits to the bingo club and have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on bingo games, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by recent trends.
Bingo duty is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
As a result of the impairment review, impairment charges of 6.1m have been recognised against the value in use of three bingo licences.
However, there are possible changes in the key assumptions that could cause further impairments.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Bingo duty As outlined above, each Spanish bingo licence has been tested for impairment as part of the club as a whole.
Accordingly, the sensitivity of each licence to future impairments, arising from changes in the key assumptions, varies at each club.
For the clubs previously impaired, each one percentage point reduction in expected future cash ow projections would generate an incremental impairment of 0.2m.
b Impairment review of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are grouped into CGUs which are dened as individual venues for Mecca, Enracha and Grosvenor Casinos and as the Grosvenor Casino digital and Mecca digital businesses.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews are the same as outlined above for intangible assets.
The recoverable amount of each CGU, including the licence if applicable, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Other than in Spain, the value in use has been determined using cash ow projections from the Groups budget for 2014 15, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 30 June 2013: 2.0% thereafter.
In Spain, the value in use has been determined using a zero growth assumption from the 2013 14 actual results due to the prolonged period of difficult economic conditions in Spain.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by an experienced surveyor supported by external estate agent advice or, where applicable, offers received.
c Impairment recognised during the period Details of impairment charges and reversals recognised during the current and prior periods are disclosed in note 4.
14 Investments in subsidiaries As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Company m m Cost At start of year 1,517.2 1,517.8 Movements 0.3 0.6 At end of year 1,516.9 1,517.2 Provision for impairment At start of year and at end of year 331.8 331.8 Net book value at end of year 1,185.1 1,185.4 The movements relate to the fair value of services recognised by subsidiary undertakings arising from equity-settled share options granted by the Company.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest, is given in note 33.
118 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 Inventories Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Raw materials 0.3 0.3 Finished goods 2.8 3.0 3.1 3.3 There were no write downs of inventory in either year.
16 Other receivables Group Company As at As at 30 June As at As at 30 June 2013 30 June 30 June 2014 restated 2014 2013 m m m m Current Other receivables 3.9 6.6 Less: provisions for impairment of other receivables 0.1 Other receivables net 3.8 6.6 Prepayments 27.3 25.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 44.2 42.9 31.1 32.1 44.2 42.9 Non-current Other receivables 3.1 2.9 3.1 2.9 Group The carrying values of other receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to their short-term nature.
As at 30 June 2014, other receivables of 0.1m 30 June 2013: 0.6m were past due but not impaired.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company The carrying values of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are assumed to equate to their fair value as all amounts are repayable on demand.
The amounts are denominated in UK Sterling and relate to subsidiary undertakings for which there is no history of default.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 119 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Trade and other payables Group Company As at As at 30 June As at As at 30 June 2013 30 June 30 June 2014 restated 2014 2013 m m m m Current Trade payables 25.8 25.4 Social security and other taxation 25.0 34.0 Other payables 62.4 65.4 1.4 1.6 Trade and other payables current 113.2 124.8 1.4 1.6 Non-current Other payables 40.5 43.8 Trade and other payables non-current 40.5 43.8 Other payables includes 2.9m current payables 30 June 2013: 2.6m and 40.5m non-current payables 30 June 2013: 43.8m in respect of above market rent property contracts acquired through business combinations.
18 Income tax Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Income tax receivable 6.6 6.3 Income tax payable Continuing operations 22.4 46.0 Income tax payable Discontinued operations 17.9 17.9 Income tax payable 40.3 63.9 Net income tax payable 33.7 57.6 Income tax payable has been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Current 40.3 42.2 Non-current 21.7 Total 40.3 63.9 Income tax payable on discontinued operations relates to potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities with historic tax audits.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
Income tax payable on continuing operations includes an ongoing tax issue that may be challenged by the relevant authority.
120 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19 Financial assets and liabilities a Interest bearing loans and borrowings Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Maturity m m Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings On Bank overdrafts demand 0.8 3.4 Obligations under finance leases Various 3.2 3.3 Other current loans Accrued interest July 2014 1.1 1.3 Unamortised facility fees Various 0.7 0.6 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.4 7.4 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 8.4 9.4 Term loans 2016 140.0 140.0 Revolving credit facilities 2017 20.0 Obligations under finance leases Various 11.7 13.0 Other non-current loans Unamortised facility fees Various 0.6 1.3 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 179.5 161.1 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 183.9 168.5 Sterling 175.5 159.1 US Dollars 8.4 9.4 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 183.9 168.5 Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand.
Yankee bonds Interest on the Yankee bonds is payable half yearly in January and July at a rate of 7.125%.
Term loan facilities New three-year facilities were signed on 25 April 2013 and consist of two bi-lateral 70.0m term loans totalling 140.0m.
These loans were put in place to fund the acquisition of Gala Casino 1 Limited from Gala Coral Group Limited in the prior year.
Interest is payable on a periodic basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facilities carry oating rates of interest which are LIBOR dependent.
Revolving credit facilities Five-year facilities were signed in January 2012 and consist of four 20.0m multi-currency revolving credit bi-lateral facilities totalling 80.0m.
During the year, the Group has drawn down in full on one of these facilities.
Covenants The Group complied with all its covenants during the year.
Company The Company did not hold any external interest-bearing loans or borrowings at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: nil.
The Company holds interest-bearing loans with other Group companies at 30 June 2014 of 829.8m 30 June 2013: 795.0m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 121 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued b Fair values The table below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group and Companys financial instruments at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013.
Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at 30 June As at 30 June 30 June 2013 30 June 2013 2014 restated 2014 restated Group m m m m Financial assets: Loans and receivables Other receivables 4.0 4.3 4.0 4.3 Cash and short-term deposits 47.1 65.0 47.1 65.0 Total 51.1 69.3 51.1 69.3 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Obligations under finance leases 14.9 16.3 14.9 16.3 Floating rate borrowings 160.0 140.0 160.0 140.0 Fixed rate borrowings 8.4 9.4 9.4 9.1 Bank overdrafts 0.8 3.4 0.8 3.4 Other 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6 Trade and other payables 72.9 77.3 72.9 77.3 Property leases 52.8 49.5 52.8 49.5 Lease disposal settlements 0.1 0.8 0.1 0.8 Total 309.7 296.1 310.7 295.8 Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 2014 2013 Company m m m m Financial assets: Loans and receivables Other receivables 44.2 42.9 44.2 42.9 Cash and short-term deposits 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 44.4 43.1 44.4 43.1 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1.4 1.6 1.4 1.6 Financial guarantee contracts 2.7 3.4 2.7 3.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 829.8 795.0 829.8 795.0 Total 833.9 800.0 833.9 800.0 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid to transfer the liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: cash and short-term deposits, other receivables, bank overdrafts and other financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: the fair value of xed rate borrowings is based on price quotations at the reporting date: the fair value of oating rate borrowings and obligations under finance leases approximates to their carrying amounts: and the fair value of property leases and lease disposal settlements approximates to their carrying amount as they are discounted at current rates.
122 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 20 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has other receivables and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The finance committee is supported by the Groups senior management which advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The finance committee provides assurance that the Groups financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and the financial risks are identied, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk appetite.
The board of directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in market prices.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the positions at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013.
The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of xed to oating rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant.
i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups functional currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Group policy is not to hedge foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of a possible change in the US Dollar and euro, with all other variables held constant, to the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
The effect on equity includes the impact of translation of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Change in US$ rate: 10.0% 0.7 0.9 -10.0% 0.9 1.0 Change in euro rate: 10.0% 0.1 0.1 3.8 7.5 -10.0% 0.1 0.1 3.8 7.5 ii Cash ow and fair value interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with oating interest rates.
Historically, the Group had managed its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of xed and variable rate loans and borrowings.
Due to the current economic climate the Group has exercised its right to operate outside the Group policy of maintaining between 40% and 60% of its borrowings at xed rates of interest.
At 30 June 2014, 13% of the Groups borrowings were at a xed rate of interest 30 June 2013: 15%.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 123 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued iii Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of loans, borrowings, cash and short-term deposits.
Effect on profit before tax As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Sterling: 100 basis point increase 1.6 1.3 200 basis point increase 3.2 2.5 There was no impact on equity in either year as a consequence of loan arrangements.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
The Group did not enter into any xed-to-oating or oating-to-xed interest rate swaps in either year.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for other receivables and from its nancing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups treasury department in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the finance director, and may be updated throughout the year subject to the approval of the Groups finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The credit worthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with a minimum rating of BB required.
The Group predominantly invests with its lending banks when appropriate.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not considered significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any material losses from nonperformance of its counterparties.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Long-term cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced tri-annually.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance are reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group treasury aims to maintain exibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A three-year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future nancing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups nancing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Groups core debt facilities are the 80.0m 30 June 2013: 80.0m bank facility comprising four 20.0m bi-lateral bank facilities that expire in January 2017 and the 140.0m 30 June 2013: 140.0m bank facility comprising two 70.0m bi-lateral bank facilities that expire in May 2016.
The Group proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversied by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
124 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 The table below summarises the maturity prole of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 12 Greater than On demand months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m At 30 June 2014 1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.8 9.6 148.5 34.1 7.8 200.8 Trade and other payables 72.9 72.9 Property leases 8.2 4.3 11.6 45.0 69.1 Lease disposal settlements 0.1 0.1 0.8 90.8 152.8 45.7 52.8 342.9 At 30 June 2013 restated 2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3.4 9.1 9.2 160.5 6.6 188.8 Trade and other payables 77.3 77.3 Property leases 4.2 3.8 10.8 47.9 66.7 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.1 0.8 3.4 91.3 13.1 171.3 54.5 333.6 Interest payments on the interest-bearing loans and borrowings have been projected until the instruments mature.
1 The bank facility interest payments were based on current LIBOR rates as at 30 June 2014.
2 The bank facility interest payments were based on current LIBOR rates as at 30 June 2013.
Capital management As a result of the difficult conditions that developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital have been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of leverage ratio.
The ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total loans and borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and short-term deposits, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations.
The leverage ratios at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 were as follows: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Total loans and borrowings note 19 183.9 168.5 Less: Cash and short-term deposits 47.1 65.0 Less: Accrued interest 1.1 1.3 Less: Unamortised facility fees 1.3 1.9 Net debt 137.0 104.1 Continuing operations: Operating profit before exceptionals 72.4 69.9 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 43.6 38.9 EBITDA 116.0 108.8 Leverage ratio 1.2 1.0 Taking into consideration both the Groups capital investment requirements and the stability of the wider economic environment, the Group considers its progressive dividend policy to be appropriate.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 125 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Collateral The Group did not pledge or hold any collateral at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: nil.
Company The Company is exposed to credit risk on amounts owed by related undertakings.
The performance of all subsidiary undertakings of the Group is monitored at Group level, including frequent projections of future performance to ensure funding to related undertakings provides a suitable return and remains recoverable.
Where losses are forecast, actions are taken to mitigate the loss and maximise the recoverability of receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of its receivables of 44.2m 30 June 2013: 42.9m.
The Company does not have any other significant exposure to financial risks.
21 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group Company As at As at 30 June As at As at 30 June 2013 30 June 30 June 2014 restated 2014 2013 m m m m Deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 15.6 18.4 Tax losses carried forward 2.5 2.6 Above market rent property contracts 7.0 8.6 Other UK temporary differences 0.8 4.3 0.2 Deferred tax assets 25.9 33.9 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities: Other overseas temporary differences 0.8 3.0 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 0.8 1.0 Temporary differences on UK casino licences 39.9 45.8 Deferred tax liabilities 41.5 49.8 Net deferred tax liability asset 15.6 15.9 0.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 23.4m 30 June 2013: 31.3m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Deferred tax assets 2.5 2.6 Deferred tax liabilities 18.1 18.5 Net deferred tax liability 15.6 15.9 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
126 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 The Group has overseas tax losses of 22.9m 30 June 2013: 22.9m that are carried forward for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as their utilisation is not currently anticipated.
The expiry of these losses was as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Expiring in 2017 20.3 21.5 No expiry date 2.6 1.4 22.9 22.9 The Group has UK capital losses carried forward of 792.0m 30 June 2013: 787.0m.
These losses are available for offset against future UK chargeable gains.
No deferred tax asset 30 June 2013: nil has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as no further utilisation is currently anticipated.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 30 June 2013: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that any unremitted earnings that do not fall within the dividend exemption introduced in the Finance Act 2009 will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group Year Year ended ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 2.8 3.4 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.2 Tax losses 0.1 0.9 Other temporary differences 3.4 0.5 Total deferred tax credit charge 0.7 4.8 Continuing operations 0.7 4.6 Discontinued operations 0.2 Total deferred tax credit charge 0.7 4.8 The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group Company 30 June 30 June 2013 30 June 30 June 2014 restated 2014 2013 m m m m As at start of year 15.9 2.4 0.2 0.2 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 13.7 Deferred tax credit charge in the income statement 0.7 4.8 Deferred tax charge credit to other comprehensive income and equity 0.2 0.3 0.2 As at end of year 15.6 15.9 0.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 127 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Provisions Property lease Disposal Restructuring Indirect tax provisions provisions provisions provisions Total Group m m m m m At 1 July 2013 49.5 5.9 0.7 12.2 68.3 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.1 0.4 Unwinding of discount 1.1 0.1 1.2 Charge to the income statement exceptional 8.4 0.6 26.4 35.4 Release to the income statement exceptional 1.8 0.3 2.1 Utilised in year 4.4 1.1 0.3 37.1 42.9 At 30 June 2014 52.8 4.6 0.9 1.2 59.5 Current 7.3 1.1 0.9 1.2 10.5 Non-current 45.5 3.5 49.0 Total 52.8 4.6 0.9 1.2 59.5 Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the future cash ows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation.
Property lease provisions The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property or part of the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash ows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
The Group also provided for the unavoidable costs to restore a property to its original condition under contractual obligations.
These leases have a weighted average unexpired life of 24 years 30 June 2013: 25 years.
Of the provision totalling 52.8m, 26.1m will be utilised over periods ranging from one to 14 years: and the remaining 26.7m will be utilised over periods from one to in excess of 25 years.
Disposal provisions Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of property lease obligations and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any personal injury claims is uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
The disposal provisions held comprise the following: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Deferred payments arising on lease settlement and related costs 0.1 0.8 Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 4.0 4.4 Other 0.5 0.7 Total disposal provisions 4.6 5.9 Restructuring provisions The restructuring provisions relate to the costs associated with the closure of two Mecca venues and exit of one Enracha venue early in 2014 15.
Indirect tax provisions The Group has recognised provisions for a number of historic indirect taxation issues including the Groups output VAT claim on amusement machines see note 31.
Payments of 37.1m were made against these provisions during the year and the remaining balance of 1.2m represents the directors best estimate of the outow likely to arise.
128 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 23 Share capital As at As at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 Authorised Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m Ordinary shares of 13 8 9p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 As at As at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 Issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m At start of year 390.7 54.2 390.6 54.2 Shares issued in year 0.1 At end of year 390.7 54.2 390.7 54.2 During the year no ordinary shares were issued under the Save As You Earn share option scheme year ended 30 June 2013: 70,095 for total consideration of 97,432.
24 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from continuing operations: Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 25.9 52.2 0.9 3.1 Exceptional items 46.5 17.7 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 72.4 69.9 0.9 3.1 Depreciation and amortisation 43.6 38.9 Share based payments and other 0.5 1.0 0.9 2.8 Decrease in inventories 0.2 0.1 Increase decrease in other receivables 1.1 1.9 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 7.4 7.9 0.2 0.1 107.2 117.7 0.2 0.2 Cash utilisation of provisions 36.5 5.6 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 9.1 8.4 Cash generated from used in continuing operations 61.6 103.7 0.2 0.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 129 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Acquisition of subsidiary On 12 May 2013, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Gala Casino 1 Limited now Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited for a base cash consideration, subject to completion adjustments, of 179.0m.
The acquisition included 19 operating casinos and three non-operating casino licences.
Fair values In accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations, the prior year comparatives for the Group balance sheet and Group cash ow statement have been restated for the adjustments to the provisional amounts recognised on the acquisition of Gala Casino 1 Limited now Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited.
There is no impact on the income statement reported in the prior year.
The amounts disclosed in the prior year were provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Groups year-end and the completion account process outlined by the sale and purchase agreement extending beyond the nalisation of the prior year financial statements.
The final fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the acquisition, along with the provisional fair values disclosed in the prior year, are outlined in the following table: Provisional Adjustments Final m m m Intangible assets 159.5 5.7 153.8 Property, plant and equipment 18.8 0.9 17.9 Inventories 0.2 0.2 Other receivables 1.8 0.1 1.7 Income tax receivable 2.7 2.7 Cash and short-term deposits 4.5 0.3 4.2 Trade and other payables 58.4 0.2 58.6 Deferred tax liability 19.8 6.1 13.7 Provisions 4.9 4.9 Net assets acquired 104.4 3.8 100.6 Goodwill 78.5 2.4 80.9 Consideration 182.9 1.4 181.5 Other receivables included an immaterial amount of financial assets.
Reconciliation to cash inow outow from acquisition of subsidiary including deferred consideration Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Consideration 181.5 Cash and short-term deposits acquired 4.2 Refund of consideration arising on nalisation of completion accounts 1.2 1.2 Deferred consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiary including deferred consideration 1.1 178.6 Goodwill Goodwill comprised deferred tax liabilities recognised on certain fair value adjustments arising on acquisition and the synergy benets arising from the exclusion of all central management functions previously associated with the operation of the casinos from the acquisition.
The Group operates the acquired casinos with only a small incremental cost increase in its existing casino central management functions.
None of the goodwill recognised is deductible for tax purposes.
130 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Acquisition related costs In the prior year the Group recognised an exceptional operating expense of 7.8m in the income statement in respect of acquisition related costs.
This included additional costs incurred by the Group due to the referral of the acquisition to the Competition Commission and a 0.4m loss associated with the disposal of the Groups non-operating licence in Edinburgh required by the Competition Commission.
The amount was in addition to the 5.0m exceptional operating expense recognised in the income statement in the 18 month period ending 30 June 2012 in respect of acquisition related costs.
The Group also recognised in the prior year the 140.0m term loans raised to part finance the acquisition at their fair value less 1.8m of costs directly attributable to the issue of the debt.
Income statement The following amounts, representing the results from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2013, have been included in the Groups income statement in the prior year: m Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 15.5 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 0.4 Revenue 15.1 Operating profit before exceptional items 2.9 profit after tax 2.1 The following table reconciles the amounts reported in the Group income statement in prior year to the amounts that would have been included had the acquisition completed at the beginning of the Groups reporting period: Reported Adjustment Pro-forma m m m Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 625.0 97.3 722.3 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 28.8 2.8 31.6 Revenue 596.2 94.5 690.7 Operating profit before exceptional items 69.9 14.5 84.4 profit after tax 27.0 10.8 37.8 In preparing the pro-forma results certain assumptions and estimates have been made and are therefore not necessarily indicative of the results of the Group that would have occurred had the acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of the reporting period.
The information is also not indicative of the future results of the Group.
26 Cash and short-term deposits Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Cash at bank and on hand 44.0 49.1 Short-term deposits 3.1 15.9 Total 47.1 65.0 The analysis of cash and short-term deposits by currency is as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Sterling 42.3 58.9 Euro 4.6 5.8 Other currencies 0.2 0.3 Total 47.1 65.0 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 131 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Cash and short-term deposits continued Cash at bank earns interest at oating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at their respective short-term deposit rates.
For the purpose of the statements of cash ow, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2014 restated m m Cash at bank and on hand 44.0 49.1 Short-term deposits 3.1 15.9 47.1 65.0 Bank overdrafts 0.8 3.4 Total 46.3 61.6 Company At 30 June 2014 the Company had cash and short-term deposits of 0.2m 30 June 2013: 0.2m.
27 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 184.7 165.1 Social security costs 18.5 17.0 Pension costs 5.5 3.6 Share-based payments 0.5 0.2 208.2 185.9 Employee benefit expense for the Group includes nil year ended 30 June 2013: 4.0m in respect of discontinued operations.
The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
b Average monthly number of employees Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Grosvenor Casinos venues 6,288 4,698 Mecca venues 3,627 3,846 Digital 103 186 Enracha 559 563 Central 332 349 10,909 9,642 c Key management compensation Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets including social security costs 3.2 4.0 Termination benets 0.2 Post-employment benets 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 0.4 0.2 3.2 4.8 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of nil in the respect of the current year that will be paid in 2014 15 2013 14: nil.
Key management is dened as the directors of the Group and the management team, details of which are set out on page 50.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
132 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans, are detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Salaries, fees and benets 1.1 1.2 Post-employment benets 0.2 0.2 1.3 1.4 No director accrued benets under dened benefit pension schemes in either year.
No director year ended 30 June 2013: one is a member of the Groups dened contribution pension plan at the year end.
Further details of emoluments received by directors, including the aggregate amount of gains made by directors upon the vesting of conditional share awards are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 72.
28 Share-based payments During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Company operated an equity settled Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Further details of the LTIP are included in the remuneration report on pages 66 and 67.
In the prior year, the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme previously offered to all UK employees and the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS both lapsed.
All of these schemes were equity-settled other than the 2010 grant under the LTIP which was cash settled in the prior year.
The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, each of the share option arrangements during the year are shown below: Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 July during during during during 30 June 30 June 2013 2013 14 2013 14 2013 14 2013 14 2014 2014 LTIP Number of shares 8,548,832 946,473 106,247 1,465,608 2,529,681 5,393,769 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 July during during during during 30 June 30 June 2012 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2013 2013 ESOS Number of shares 11,666 11,666 WAEP 270.00p 270.00p SAYE Number of shares 158,559 70,095 76,378 12,086 WAEP 139.00p 139.00p 139.00p 139.00p LTIP Number of shares 3,128,265 6,874,638 1,099,786 42,849 311,436 8,548,832 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil The LTIP awards granted during the year vest in three tranches: 40% in September 2015, 40% in September 2016, and 20% in September 2017.
LTIP awards that vested during the prior year were cash-settled following a modication of the settlement basis.
At 30 June 2013, 110,386 of the outstanding awards were to be cash-settled.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, 106,247 of these awards vested, and the remaining 4,139 lapsed.
No incremental fair value was granted on the date of modication.
All awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 are to be equity-settled.
The share awards outstanding at the period ends have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at 30 June 2014 Outstanding at 30 June 2013 Weighted Weighted average Number average Number remaining of shares remaining of shares Exercise contractual under Exercise contractual under prices life option prices life option LTIP Nil 2.1 years 5,393,769 Nil 3.1 years 8,548,832 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 133 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Share-based payments continued The fair value of LTIP awards granted is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation which allows for the incorporation of market performance conditions.
For grants made subject to non-market based performance conditions, the expense recognised is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
The following table lists the inputs used for the LTIP grants during the years ended: 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Risk free interest rate % 0.34-1.40 0.75-1.42 Dividend yield % 3.20 5.10 Expected volatility % 31.0 33.0 Vesting period Years 1-3 2-4 Weighted average share price p 140.50 160.50 The expected volatility reects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the award is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The number of LTIP awards and the fair value per share of the LTIP awards granted during the year were as follows: 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 Number 946,473 6,874,638 Weighted average fair value per share 71.3p 103.4p The Group recognised a 0.5m credit year ended 30 June 2013: 0.2m charge in operating profit from accounting for sharebased payments and related National Insurance in accordance with IFRS2.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at 30 June 2014 of nil 30 June 2013: 0.1m.
The Group has a further liability of nil 30 June 2013: 0.1m in respect of outstanding cash-settled share options.
29 Retirement benefits Dened contribution schemes The Group operates The Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan and The Rank Group Workplace Pension Scheme the Plans which are externally funded and the Plans assets are held separately from Group assets.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Group contributed a total of 5.1m year ended 30 June 2013: 3.6m to the Plans.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the balance sheet date in either year.
Other pension commitment The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
The Group paid 0.1m year ended 30 June 2013: 0.1m in pension payments during the year.
The net cost arising on the commitment of nil year ended 30 June 2013: nil has been recognised in other financial losses in the income statement.
The actuarial loss arising on the commitment, resulting from the changes in assumptions outlined below in the year, was 0.4m year ended 30 June 2013: gain of 0.2m before taxation and 0.3m after taxation year ended 30 June 2013: 0.2m.
Assumptions used to determine the obligations at: 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 % p. a.
Discount rate 4.2 4.5 Pension increases 3.4 3.0 The obligation in the current year has been calculated using the S1 mortality tables with a 1.5% per annum improvement in life expectancy.
In the prior year the obligation was calculated using the PA92 YOB mc mortality table with a 1.5% per annum improvement in life expectancy.
134 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 30 Commitments Group Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, plant and items of machinery.
These leases have durations of from under one year to 51 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Not later than one year 48.3 46.5 After one year but not more than five years 188.4 186.1 After five years 287.6 323.0 524.3 555.6 As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 22.9 25.1 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value Minimum of minimum lease payments lease payments 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Not later than one year 4.1 4.2 3.2 3.3 After one year but not more than five years 8.3 10.3 6.0 8.1 More than five years 7.8 6.6 5.7 4.9 20.2 21.1 14.9 16.3 Less future finance charges 5.3 4.8 Present value of minimum lease payments 14.9 16.3 As at As at 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 0.2 0.2 Capital commitments At 30 June 2014, the Group has contracts placed for future capital expenditure, primarily relating to property, plant and equipment, of 3.7m 30 June 2013: 4.7m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 135 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Contingent liabilities Group Fiscal neutrality case In previous periods the Group disclosed a contingent liability in respect of a claim for repayment of output VAT on amusement machines.
During the year, the Court of Appeal found in favour of HMRC and consequently an amount of 26.4m was provided to cover the expected outow, together with an accrual for interest of 4.3m.
In May 2014, a payment was made to HMRC in respect of these claims, with the remaining balance being the directors, best estimate of the outow likely to arise.
The Group has been granted leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, and it therefore remains possible the Group will not ultimately be liable for these amounts.
The appeal will be held in April 2015.
Other VAT and duty In previous periods the Group has disclosed contingent liabilities in respect of a limited number of VAT and duty issues.
At 30 June 2013 the Group estimated its total exposure to be approximately 29.0m plus interest, of which 12.2m plus interest was provided.
During the year the Group has paid 11.9m plus interest of 0.8m as settlement of these VAT and duty issues.
Property leases Concurrent to the 211.0m sale and leaseback in 2006, the Group transferred the rights and obligations but not the legal titles of 44 property leases to a third party.
The Group remains potentially liable in the event of default by the third party.
Should default occur then the Group would have recourse to two guarantors.
It is understood that, of the original 44 leases transferred, 16 of these have not expired or been surrendered.
These 16 leases have durations of between one month and 99 years and a current annual rental obligation net of sub-let income of approximately 1.5m.
During the year, the Group became aware of certain information in respect of a deterioration in the financial position of the third party and one of the guarantors.
However, the Group has not to date been notied of any default, or intention to default, in respect of the transferred leases.
Company At 30 June 2014, the Company has made guarantees to subsidiary undertakings of 170.3m 30 June 2013: 150.9m.
32 Related party transactions Group Details of compensation of key management are disclosed in note 27.
Entities with significant inuence over the Group On 7 June 2011, Guoco Group Limited Guoco, a company incorporated in Bermuda and listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange, acquired a controlling interest in The Rank Group Plc.
The ultimate parent undertaking of Guoco is Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad Hong Leong which is incorporated in Malaysia.
At 30 June 2014, entities controlled by Hong Leong owned 68.9% of the Companys shares, including 51.8% through Guoco and its wholly owned subsidiary Rank Assets Limited, the Companys immediate parent undertaking.
During the year, The Gaming Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary within the Group, purchased three non-operating casino licences from Clermont Leisure UK Limited for consideration of 5.8m, and has subsequently begun operating one of these licences.
An agreement is in place, subject to the satisfaction of certain legal conditions, to purchase a further nonoperating casino licence for a maximum total consideration of 0.2m.
Clermont Leisure UK Limited is an entity subject to common control.
The total consideration of 6.0m includes an option to purchase one further licence for a nominal amount.
The valuation of the casino licences was carried out by a third party on an arms length basis.
Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Interest payable to subsidiary undertaking 22.6 27.9 During the year, Rank Group Finance Plc, a subsidiary of the Company, provided additional cash to the Company of 16.6m year ended 30 June 2013: 14.8m.
136 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Principal subsidiaries 1 The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of the following companies : Name Country of incorporation Principal activities Grosvenor Casinos Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos The Gaming Group Limited England and Wales London casino Mecca Bingo Limited England and Wales Social and bingo clubs Rank Leisure Limited England and Wales Adult gaming centres in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos Rank Holding Espaa SA Spain Owns the Groups investments in Spain Rank Digital Gaming Alderney Limited Alderney Interactive gaming 2 Rank Digital Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming Rank Digital Services Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar Support services to interactive gaming Rank Gaming Group Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Group Gaming Division Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and provision of shared services Rank Leisure Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and corporate activities 2 Rank Nemo Twenty-Five Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Overseas Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Holdings Netherlands BV, i. l. Netherlands Intermediary holding company 2 Rank Group Finance Plc England and Wales Funding operations for the Group 1 The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to list all companies.
The table above therefore includes those companies which the directors consider principally affect the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
2 Directly held by the Company.
The principal activities are carried out in the country of incorporation as indicated above.
All principal subsidiary undertakings have a 30 June year-end.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 137
