Other information Separately, we have agreed to extend the research programme Keep it fun to incorporate a study of the effect of Januarys changes to A key aim for the Group is to ensure that our business stakes and prizes on casino slot machines.
This component understands and limits problem gambling, where possible.
of the programme also involves the social policy research The following outlines actions carried out during the year provider, The National Centre for Social Research NatCen.
to help us achieve this aim.
RGTNatCen machines research programme we Understand through research and engagement participated in stage 1 of RGTs study of player behaviours on Problem gambling is a complex and poorly understood slot machines.
We have signalled our willingness in principle subject.
Its roots lie within a complex web of psychological, to participate in subsequent stages of this programme.
sociological and economic factors with the problematic GamePlan in addition to formal research, we believe that gambling behaviour often a symptom of deeper-lying issues.
we can enhance our understanding of problem gambling In the absence of a clearer understanding of the subject it via engagement with a wide variety of interested parties.
is likely that measures designed to tackle problem gambling Through our GamePlan programme we met with a broad whether prohibitive or restrictive regulations or operator roster of government and shadow government departments, policies will prove insufficiently effective.
regulatory bodies, problem gambling treatment providers, researchers and academics, trade associations, pressure groups During 2013 14, we engaged in a number of programmes and international peers to discuss the effects of our operations designed to further our and the industrys understanding and the consequences of our ambitions.
The list of of problem gambling: organisations included HM Treasury, Shadow Department RankUniversity of Salford research project work on of Culture Media and Sport, the Gambling Commission, the University of Salfords research programme to understand 1 GamCare, RGT, the British Columbia Lottery Corporation better the behaviour of problem gamblers started in earnest and the Campaign for Fairer Gambling.
We donated data processing equipment and provided data sets from the Grosvenor Casinos Play Points rewards card programme, while the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT provided research funding.
We expect to be in a position to review with RGT the first-stage findings during 2014 15.
How big a problem is problem gambling?
A number of large scale studies of the Secondly, while the proportion of people involved suggests to us that statistical prevalence of problem gambling in Great who are problem gamblers is low, the absolute prevalence should not be the sole measure 1 Britain conducted since 1999 found that number it is estimated that in 2012, around of the impact of problem gambling.
between 0.4% and 0.9% of adults are problem 180,000 adults in England and Scotland were During 2014 15, we will be undertaking 2 gamblers.
Not only does this represent a low problem gamblers is substantial.
further research to a understand the proportion of the population but it is also Thirdly, a study by Professor David Forest prevalence of problem gambling within our relatively low by international standards.
of the University of Salford based upon brands and b identify methods for measuring However, these statistics tell only part of data from the British Gambling Prevalence our performance in tackling the issue.
Survey has shown that people with gambling Firstly, these studies also classify 4.2% of problems experience significant distress and 1 British Gambling Prevalence Survey 1999, 2007 adults as being at risk gamblers dened as unhappiness.
While the gambling problem and 2010: Scottish Health Survey 2012: English Those who experience some gambling-related is generally understood to be a symptom Health Survey 2012.
problems but remain below the threshold for of distress and a secondary impact rather problem gambling.
than the primary cause, the level of distress 1 GamCare are the leading provider of information, advice, support and free counselling for the prevention and treatment of problem gambling.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 139 Other Information Other information continued Rank Research Dinners during the year, we held a series of Through our Keep it Fun training programme we Rank Research Dinners, designed to develop our understanding help our teams to identify signs of problem gambling of problem gambling.
These dinners, which were held under and where appropriate to intervene in order to Chatham House Rules, involved participants from the provide support.
Gambling Commission, RGT, IGT, Ernst and Young, the during 2013 14, 35 of our team members undertook University of Salford, NatCen, the Mail on Sunday and our Keep it Fun course, totalling 140 hours of training.
our teams helped 4,000 customers to agree self-exclusions by which customers elect to be refused access to our brands In February 2014, we hosted an international round-table in venue and or online.
discussion on problem gambling involving JOA Groupe the vigilance of our teams helped customers to adhere France, Loto fide Quebec Canada, The Hippodrome Casino to these self-exclusions with a 11% reduction in reported Great Britain, the Association of Gaming Equipment 1 breaches, and our teams continue to refer our customers Manufacturers and the University of California Los Angeles.
to counselling support via GamCare.
We plan to repeat this event in 2015.
During 2014 15, we will be undertaking trials of machineRank Executive Awareness Programme during the year, based interventions that will allow customers to set limits we re-launched the Rank Executive Awareness programme on play.
Designed to promote greater understanding Support treatment and counselling amongst key decision-makers of the realities of problem We believe that our role in tackling problem gambling should gambling, the programme involves mandatory visits to not include the direct provision of counselling services: but GamCare and completion of the Keep it Fun training that in tandem with our industry peers we have a responsibility for all members of Ranks executive committee.
Responsible Gambling Trust Rank was one of the ofcial During the year, we contributed 296,000 to RGT, which sponsors of RGTs Harm Minimisation Conference 2013.
The in turn allocates 68% of its funds to counselling and conference featured an impressive line-up of problem gambling treatment providers.
research experts from around the world, including Great Britain, Australia, the USA and Sweden.
In addition to funding, we also promote GamCares helpline and netline as well as the Gambleaware website, which also Inuence customer behaviour through communication provides helpful guidance for those in need.
During the year, we invested approximately 50,000 in our Keep it Fun programme to encourage healthy consumer The cost of Keeping it Fun 2013 14 attitudes towards gambling.
We have been assisted in this 2013 14 2012 13 programme by the British Columbia Lottery Corporations Contributions to RGT 296,000 314,000 GameSense team, who have generously shared insights Payments to GamCare 10,000 and ideas.
Keep it Fun communication 50,000 During 2014 15 we plan to test machine-based advertising 1 Excludes the impact of the 19 acquired casinos.
to promote healthy relationships with slots play.
Provide safeguards and intervene where problems arise Since 2006, we have worked with GamCare to test the effectiveness of our customer protection measures, gaining accreditation for our venues and digital businesses.
During 2013 14, we invested 10,000 in achieving GamCare accreditation for Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca and we expect to invest a similar amount in the year ahead.
140 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
