Other Information Our Relationships and Principal Operating Risks of the countries where most of its assets are located.
For transactions, it is The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international the Groups policy to monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its banks.
All of these facilities have similar or equivalent terms and foreign currency transaction exposures.
These transaction exposures arise conditions, and have a financial covenant, facilities and central cash and mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash services, and from the remittance of foreign currency dividends and loans.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts capital purposes by the overseas businesses are generally remitted to with Group Treasury to manage these exposures, where practical and Group Treasury.
The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, allowed by local regulations.
Group Treasury manages the Group repay borrowings or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term exposures, and hedges the net position where possible, using spot and instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.
forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
Our business may be adversely affected by our funding requirements.
Our In FY 2014, 92% of our net revenue was derived from markets outside the liquidity needs are driven by our ability to generate cash from operations United Kingdom.
The Sterling value of our revenues, profits and cash flows and the level of borrowings and related levels of headroom, the level of from non-UK markets may be reduced or our supply costs, as measured in acquisition, the level of share repurchases and dividends, dispositions, Sterling in those markets, may increase.
Additionally, a number of our target ratings for our debt and options available to us in the equity and competitors are based in countries whose currencies fluctuate against debt markets.
We obtain our funding primarily from the commercial paper Sterling, and they may benefit from having their costs incurred in weaker market and have benefited from the low interest rate environment.
We currencies relative to Sterling.
We prepare our financial statements in maintain committed back-up credit facilities, which have remained pounds sterling, and our financial results are affected by fluctuations undrawn since FY 2009.
At 31 December 2014, we had 3,500m in between the relative value of Sterling and other functional currencies, undrawn commitments.
If we are not able to access the commercial paper particularly the US dollar and Euro.
For example, in FY 2014, we incurred a market to the extent that we require, or at all, we may need to drawdown net exchange loss on foreign currency translation, net of tax, of 328m in amounts under our committed bilateral credit facilities, which accrue our statement of comprehensive income.
Further, currency translations interest at floating rates based on changes in certain published rates such may make it more difficult for investors to understand the relative as LIBOR.
Increases in such rates could result in significantly higher interest strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-to-period expense for us, which would negatively affect our results of operations.
We currently hedge some of our currency exposures part of our strategy to maintain financial flexibility, as well as to procure using financial instruments, and we seek to align our interest costs and additional funding for future acquisitions, including both bolt-on operating profits of our major currencies where possible, which may not acquisitions as well as acquisitions that may be more material in size, we be effective.
Hedging transactions do not eliminate the exchange rate risk increased the level of medium-term funding in 2013 with the placement entirely, and may not be fully, or at all, effective.
of a US$1bn bond in the US debt market.
We are subject to the risk that countries in which we operate may impose or The Groups objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups increase exchange controls or devalue their currency.
We operate in a number ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for of countries, particularly emerging markets, which impose exchange controls, Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia, South efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an Africa and Venezuela.
Such controls may restrict or make it impossible to appropriate capital structure and providing returns for Shareholders, in convert local currency into other currencies, restrict our ability to repatriate 2014 the Company has provided returns to Shareholders in the form of earnings from a country for example, 89m of our cash and cash equivalents dividends, the current details of which are included in the Financial Review as at 31 December 2014 were restricted for use by us, borrow on the for the year on page 20, and share buy backs.
The Group monitors net international markets to fund operations in that country or limit our ability to debt total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term available import raw materials or finished products, any or all of which could materially for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations.
In addition, at the year end the Group had net debt of 1,543m 2013: 2,096m.
The emerging markets are prone to currency devaluations, such as, for example, Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business the devaluation by the Russian Rouble in 2014, which tend to make our to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Details of numerical products more expensive in local currency terms.
disclosures relating to the Groups financial risk management are included in note 14 to the financial statements on pages 96 to 101.
Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods such as those Acquisitions and divestitures that are oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw materials.
This risk is, We have grown, and may continue to grow, in part, through acquisitions, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain joint ventures and business alliances, which involve various risks.
While we key suppliers and is not viewed as being a material risk.
The Group is not are principally focused on organic growth, we have in the past grown, and exposed to equity securities price risk.
expect in the future to continue to grow, through acquisitions.
Acquisitions present a range of risks and uncertainties.
Historically we have funded Credit and interest rates acquisitions through short-term borrowings, which we repaid through cash The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets and flow from our operations.
In the past four years, we have moved away liabilities.
The Group monitors its interest expense rate exposure on a from this model due in part to the size of the acquisitions.
We expect that regular basis.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure on its gross future acquisitions will be funded through either additional borrowings or financial assets by using fixed rate term deposits.
through equity, or a combination of the two.
We are shifting our capital structure in favour of more medium-term borrowings, in part to be able to The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
This in turn could result in an increase in our net institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups debt, and will likely increase our level of interest expense as we move away counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions from the commercial paper market, which has benefited from the low with a BBB rating or above.
The Group seeks to use higher rated interest rate environment.
counterparties to manage risk and only uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is Material or transformative acquisitions could require Shareholder approval, subject to a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is either due to the level of equity funding or due to corporate governance reassessed annually by the Board.
While we target a strong investment grade A banded credit RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 128
