Financial Statements 21 Pension and other Post-retirement Commitments continued risk and risk management Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset Volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
All the UK plans have agreed with the company a plan to fide-risk the investment strategy of the plans at a pace that is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable time scale.
The fide-risking plan provides for a proportion of the investment portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time.
The corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on the UK and US.
However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in Bond yields: A decrease in government and corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
inflation risk: Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member.
Whilst the plans allow for an increase in life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in the future.
The Groups pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property, and cash.
The Group believes that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long-term with an acceptable level of risk.
The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Company whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
22 Share Capital equity Subscriber ordinary nominal ordinary nominal shares value shares value issued and fully paid number m number m At 1 January 2014 736,535,179 74 2 Cancelled 2 At 31 december 2014 736,535,179 74 Equity Subscriber ordinary Nominal ordinary Nominal shares value shares value issued and fully paid number m number m At 1 January 2013 734,210,757 73 2 Allotments 2,324,422 1 At 31 December 2013 736,535,179 74 2 The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
The holders of subscriber ordinary shares par value 1 have no entitlement to dividends.
Holders have no right to attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or vary the rights attached to the subscriber shares.
During 2014, all subscriber ordinary shares were cancelled.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 109
