Other Information Our Relationships and Principal Operating Risks We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary regulations.
Changes to the laws and regulations to which we and our information by email and other electronic means.
We have discussed and operations are subject, whether as a result of new or more stringent worked with customers, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties to requirements, or more stringent interpretations of existing requirements, develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be could impact the way we conduct our business or market our products unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all such third parties and we for example, up-scheduling of an OTC product would result in it being may not be able to ensure that these third parties have appropriate moved from on-the-shelf to behind the counter and could impose controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information.
An significant compliance costs and have a material adverse effect on our interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary results of operations.
information being sent to or received from a consumer, customer, supplier, counterparty or other third party could result in legal liability, regulatory The laws and regulations to which we are subject may not be transparent, action and reputational harm.
may be difficult to interpret, and or may be enforced inconsistently.
In our experience, emerging markets can pose heightened risks with respect to Personnel and management laws and regulations, when compared with countries with more developed We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key institutional structures.
Given our focus on growth in developing markets, senior management.
We invest in recruiting and training personnel and we are exposed to heightened regulatory risks.
For example, in some senior management.
Our business depends, in part, on executive officers emerging market countries, the laws and regulations to which we are and senior management to provide uninterrupted leadership and direction subject may not always be fully transparent, can be difficult to interpret for our business, and qualified personnel for product R&D.
This need is all and may be enforced inconsistently.
The legal systems in such countries the more acute in the context of a growing business, and the strategic may not be well-established or reliable.
There may be a lack of respect for internal reorganisations and resource planning programmes to promote the rule of law, a lack of enforcement of property rights, inconsistent or and manage such growth.
The market for talent is intensely competitive insufficient access to remedy through legal systems, lack of judicial and may become increasingly more competitive.
We could face challenges independence and corruption, which could result in greater uncertainty in in sourcing qualified personnel, with the requisite training and suitable enforcing contracts, difficulties in obtaining legal redress, particularly international experience, particularly in countries such as China, where the against the state or state-owned entities, and higher operational costs availability of skilled employees may be limited.
Further, variable pay is, and and risks to our business.
will continue to be, the major element of our current Executive Directors and Senior Executives total compensation package.
We could be subject to investigations and potential enforcement action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
We could be If we achieve our target levels of performance, the variable elements will subject to regulatory investigations or potential enforcement action that amount to 59%76% of Executive Directors total remuneration.
If we are targets an industry, a set of business practices or our specific operations.
unable to achieve our performance targets, our senior management would These investigations or enforcement actions could be in respect of specific not be entitled to such variable pay, which may operate as a disincentive industry issues or broader business conduct issues.
Moreover, these for them to continue their employment with us.
The loss of key personnel, investigations or enforcement actions could be triggered by allegations of or our inability to recruit qualified personnel to meet our operational general corporate misconduct or by allegations of individual employee needs, may delay, or curtail the achievement of major strategic objectives.
misconduct in violation of internal policies and procedures.
Regulatory authorities and consumer groups may, from time to time, request or Labour disruptions may affect our results of operations.
A substantial conduct reviews of the use of certain ingredients that are used in portion of our workforce is unionised, and our relationship with unions, manufacturing our products, the results of which may have a material including labour disputes or work stoppages, could have an adverse impact adverse effect on our business.
Ingredient legislation could have a on our financial results.
We are a party to collective bargaining agreements detrimental impact on our business, undermine our reputation and covering approximately one-third of our direct employees.
If, upon the goodwill and affect consumer demand for products containing such expiration of such collective bargaining agreements, we are unable to ingredients.
We may voluntarily remove, or be required to remove, negotiate acceptable contracts with labour unions, it could result in strikes certain ingredients from our products or any products that we may by the affected workers and thereby significantly disrupt our operations.
We may not be able to develop an alternative formulation, Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided successfully modify our existing products or obtain necessary regulatory for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased approvals on a timely basis or at all, which could adversely impact our operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations.
business and results of operations.
laws and regulations Historical or future violations of antitrust and competition laws may have a Our business is subject to significant governmental regulation.
Our material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of business and products are heavily regulated by governments and other operations.
We are subject to antitrust and competition laws in the vast regulatory bodies in the countries in which we operate.
Regulation is majority of countries in which we do business.
Failure to comply with imposed in respect of, but not limited to, ingredients, manufacturing applicable antitrust and competition laws, rules and regulations in any standards, labour standards, product safety and quality, marketing, jurisdiction in which we operate may result in civil and or criminal legal packaging, labelling, storage, distribution, advertising, imports and proceedings being brought against us.
We have in the past been, currently exports, social and environmental responsibility and health and safety.
In are, and may in the future be, subject to investigations and legal addition, we are required to obtain and maintain licenses in respect of proceedings with respect to antitrust and competition issues.
In 2014 we certain of our products, which must be regularly updated in order to were fined 121m by the French competition authorities subject to appeal improve our products and take into account any variations.
If we are found following an investigation by the authority into co-operative actions by by regulators or courts to have been non-compliant with applicable laws certain consumer product suppliers in that country, including RB.
We are and regulations, we could be subject to civil remedies such as fines, also involved in certain competition law-related proceedings in other injunctions or product recalls, and or criminal sanctions, any of which countries.
Competition and antitrust violations enquiries often continue for could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial several years, can be subject to strict non-disclosure provisions, and, if laws condition and results of operations.
are deemed to have been violated, can result in substantial fines and other sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, We are subject to the introduction of new regulations, modification of reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
Our strategy for existing regulations or changes in interpretations of existing or new growth has historically included, and continues to include, acquisition RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 130
