Other Information blogs or other social media sites, or via print and broadcast media.
The preparation of our financial statements requires Similarly, any litigation that we face may subject us to increasing negative management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported attention in the press.
In addition, companies with global operations amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and revenue and recently have come under criticism for corporate tax planning, and criticism expenses during the reporting period.
Although estimates are based on of our structures or those of our peers could also generate negative managements best knowledge at the time, actual amounts may ultimately publicity.
Any negative publicity could significantly undermine our differ from those estimates.
For example, measurement of intangible reputation, and current methods of dissemination of information including assets, both in acquisitions and business combinations, requires us to the ability of reports to go viral online mean that potential threats to identify such assets and any assumptions and estimates of future cash reputation can occur in a very short period of time and reach a far broader flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified assets may be audience than historically was the case, making it far more difficult to impacted by various factors, including adverse economic conditions, or address.
Moreover, third parties may sell products that are counterfeit or integration issues.
unauthorised versions of our brands, or inferior lookalike brands that resemble ours.
Consumers may confuse our products with such brands.
The Groups multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates Competition and Customers foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest rates, credit risks and We operate in intensely competitive industries.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that competition worldwide.
We compete with well-established local, regional, uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other national and international companies that target the same consumer base instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance as we do, some of whom may have more significant resources with which of the Group.
The Groups financing and financial risk management to establish and promote their products.
We also face competition from activities are centralised into Group Treasury to achieve benefits of scale private label products, and generic non-branded products, which and control.
Group Treasury manages financial exposures of the Group typically are sold at lower prices, by major retail companies, some of whom centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
Group may be our customers.
Competition from these sources has grown in Treasury manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying recent years.
commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for Consolidation of key trade customers in the sectors in which we operate all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves significant activities.
may limit opportunities for growth, and increase competitive pressures Group Treasury operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject further.
Our products generally compete on the basis of product quality to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
and performance, promotional activities, brand recognition, price, timely development and launch, or other benefits to consumers.
If we are unable Tax laws and regulations to offer products that consumers choose over our competitors products, Changes in tax legislation and other circumstances that affect tax our business and results of operations may be materially adversely calculations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of affected.
In addition, our products compete with other products for shelf operations.
We conduct business operations in a number of countries, and space in retail stores and for marketing focus, such as via in-store are therefore subject to tax and intercompany pricing laws in multiple promotional activities of our brands.
Our competitive position, and jurisdictions, including those relating to the flow of funds between RB and consequently sales of our products, may be harmed to the extent that we its subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate in any given financial year reflects a are unable to successfully maintain sound working relationships with our variety of factors that may not be present in succeeding financial years, trade customers, who determine access to shelf space and product and may be affected by changes in the tax laws of the jurisdictions in placement on shelf, set retail prices and control in-store promotional which we operate, or the interpretation of such tax laws.
Certain tax activities of our brands, and can establish pricing differentials between positions taken by us are based on industry practice, tax advice and similar products on shelf.
drawing similarities from our facts and circumstances to those in case law.
In particular, international transfer pricing is an area of taxation that As the retail sector becomes more concentrated, retailers could impose depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally downward pressure on prices and require commercial incentives before involves a significant degree of judgement.
agreeing to offer our products for sale to consumers.
Further, to the extent trade customers increase usage of their own distribution networks and Changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations and increased private label brands, the competitive advantage we derive from our brand enforcement actions and penalties may alter the environment in which we equity could be impaired.
In addition, new sales channels have emerged, do business, and tax planning arrangements are frequently scrutinised by and continue to emerge, such as sales made through the Internet via tax authorities worldwide.
We have in the past faced, and may in the online shopping, which may affect customer and consumer preferences, future face, audits and challenges brought by tax authorities, and we are and competitive dynamics.
If we are unable to effectively compete in these involved in ongoing tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions around new channels, this could adversely impact our results and our prospects.
If material challenges were to be successful, our effective tax Moreover, increased competition means that we need to spend more on rate may increase, we may be required to modify structures at significant promotion of our products.
costs to us, we may also be subject to interest and penalty charges and we may incur costs in defending litigation or reaching a settlement.
Any of the Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our future foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial sales and prospects, consequently adversely impacting our results of condition and results of operations.
Competition also extends to administrative and legal challenges of product claims and advertising.
Responding to legal Currency exchange challenges and defending our products and intellectual property rights The Group prepares its financial statements in Sterling but conducts could result in significant expenses and may divert resources away from business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign product and technological innovation, which may have a material adverse exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
the translation of the results and the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and operating General Financial risks of a Global Company profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against We are subject to risks relating to estimates and assumptions that we are the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group required to make, and that affect the reported amounts in our financial may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 127
