Other Information rating for our debt, acquisitions of a certain size, to the extent we rely materials on a more global basis, and negatively impact our costs.
The more heavily on debt funding, could place pressure on our credit rating.
failure of a number of third party suppliers to fulfil their contractual Our competitors may choose to target the same acquisition candidates, obligations, in a timely manner, or at all, may result in delays or disruptions and consolidation in the industry may limit available opportunities for to our business.
Replacing suppliers may require a new supplier to be acquisitions.
We may also be restricted by applicable antitrust laws, foreign qualified under industry, governmental or our own internal standards, investment laws, or other laws and regulations, from pursuing acquisitions, which could require investment and may take time.
In addition, a number in which case we may bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses associated of our facilities are critical to our business and major or prolonged with a failed acquisition.
disruption at those facilities, whether due to accidents, sabotage or otherwise could materially adversely affect our operations.
Moreover, sites We may fail to achieve projected financial results of acquisitions, including in which our products are manufactured are subject to supervision by expected cost and revenue synergies.
In making acquisitions, we make regulatory agencies, on both an ongoing and ad hoc basis.
If we are various assessments, including expected growth rates which we may fail to unable to obtain or produce sufficient quantities of a particular product, at achieve.
To the extent that economic benefits associated with our specifically approved facilities, whether due to disruption to, or failure of, acquisitions diminish in the future, we may be required to record our manufacturing processes, or otherwise, we may fail to meet customer impairment charges to goodwill or other assets, which could affect our demand on a timely basis, which could undermine our sales and result in financial condition.
Through our acquisitions, we may also assume customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation.
unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume In addition, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory businesses with internal control deficiencies.
While we seek to mitigate requirements could lead to interruption of production, product recalls, these risks in most of our transactions through, among other things, due seizures and revocation of licenses to operate at any of our facilities.
Any diligence processes and indemnification provisions, we cannot be certain interruption or disruption in our supply chain, particularly if significant or that the due diligence processes we conduct are adequate particularly prolonged, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, with respect to acquisitions of privately held companies and in countries results of operations and financial condition.
where legislation and transparency make the process more difficult or that the indemnification provisions and other risk mitigation measures we put Volatility in the price of commodities, energy and transportation may in place will be sufficient.
Certain materials for the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related commodities, are subject to We could also face significant risks related to integration of the acquired fluctuating prices.
Increases in the costs or decreases in the availability of businesses into the RB Group, particularly if we attempt to simultaneously these commodities, and increases in other costs such as energy and integrate multiple businesses.
Acquisitions in emerging markets, such as transportation, could adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to China, may impose particular risks related to integration across different pass on the higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve corporate cultures, systems, languages and other market and regulatory cost efficiencies.
Even if we were to increase the prices of our products, risks.
In addition, acquisitions in markets in which we have limited or no competitors may opt not to adjust their prices in response to increasing prior experience may pose a greater risk.
Moreover, integration of acquired costs and customers may refuse to pay higher prices.
Our inability to businesses, as well as any attendant internal reorganisation, can also require manage this risk effectively, or at all, could have a material adverse effect significant management attention, which may place strain on management on our results of operations.
resources and processes, and otherwise disrupt operations.
Acquisitions can also place a strain on Group-wide internal control systems.
information Technology A disruption to, or failure of, our information technology systems and If we are unable to effectively manage risks associated with acquisitions, our infrastructure, may adversely affect our business.
We are increasingly business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure to adversely affected.
In addition, we may choose to enter into joint ventures, support a wide variety of key business processes, including processing and business alliances or collaboration agreements, which could involve the same storage of confidential data, as well as for international and external or similar risks and uncertainties as are involved in acquisitions.
Joint communications as part of our accounting, logistics and distribution ventures for example, generally involve a lesser degree of control over functions with suppliers, customers and consumers.
Failures or disruptions business operations, which have in the past presented, and may in the future to our systems or the systems of third parties on whom we rely, due to any present, greater financial, legal, operational and or compliance risks.
number of causes, particularly if prolonged, or if any failure or disruption were to impact our backup or disaster recovery plans, could result in a loss Supply Chain of key data and or affect our operations.
We face risks of interruptions of our supply chain and disruptions in our production facilities, which could materially adversely affect our results of The combination of our recently initiated business reorganisation and operations.
We source our raw and packaging materials including bulk continued implementation of our enterprise resource planning ERP chemicals, plastics, pulp and metal cans and finished goods from a wide programmes could result in sub-optimal implementations and reduced variety of predominantly international chemical and packaging companies focus due to conflicting demands for management attention.
We also outsource the manufacture of some of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to products to third parties.
Our suppliers generally are diversified in terms of unauthorised access from within our organisation or by third parties, geography and supplied items, but we may face risks to continuity of computer viruses or other malicious code and other cyber threats that supply arising from certain specialised suppliers, both of raw materials and could have a security impact.
The occurrence of one or more of these of third party manufactured items, including specialty chemicals and events potentially could jeopardise confidential, proprietary and other components.
We may also incur higher prices for raw materials than we information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our may otherwise have to pay if we adopted a more concentrated approach computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or to obtaining supplies.
malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage.
We may be required to expend significant additional More generally, significant disruptions to our suppliers operations, such as resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and disruptions resulting from natural catastrophes including as a result of the remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to effects of climate change, pandemics or other outbreaks of diseases, acts litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully of war or terrorism, or otherwise, may affect our ability to source raw covered through any insurance maintained by us.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 129
