Other Information Our Relationships and Principal Operating Risks A summary of Strategic Risks and Uncertainties appears on pages 24 of consumer patterns change within the major consumer clusters that we this report.
Following is a more expansive explanation of principal risks, have identified, or fail to react as anticipated, we may have to reassess our relationships and uncertainties facing the Group, including risks that are growth plans, and alter our sales strategy.
If we are unable to respond to not specified in that summary.
This report, however, is not an all-inclusive changes in consumer demand in a timely or adequate manner, or at all, list of risks that may affect the Group and other factors may pose a and or accurately predict or anticipate factors that may impact demand, material risk to the business.
and if we are unable to differentiate our brands from competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially overall Business environment and adversely affected.
We are one of the worlds leading manufacturers and marketers of branded health, hygiene and home products, selling a comprehensive Our business, financial condition, and results of operations substantially range of products through over 60 operating companies in nearly 200 depend on our ability to improve our existing products, and successfully countries.
Consequently, our business and results of operations are develop and launch new products and technologies.
Our ability to affected by changes in both global economic conditions and the individual maintain and grow our market share depends to a large extent on our markets in which we operate.
Global economic trends continue to pose ability to successfully and cost-effectively introduce and market new challenges, and in many of our markets, austerity measures, constraints on products whether variants of existing, or newly developed, products, and consumer lending and slow or no economic growth continue to impede to develop equipment, technology and manufacturing processes for our consumer purchasing power and adversely impact consumer confidence.
If we are unable to successfully develop, launch and market new In addition, terrorist acts, civil unrest and other similar disturbances, as well products that obtain consumer acceptance, in a timely manner, or at all, as natural catastrophes, can impact economic conditions and consumer we may be unable to compete and maintain or grow our market share.
confidence, degrade infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and otherwise Any new product or line extension may not generate sufficient consumer result in business interruption.
interest and sales levels to become a profitable product or to cover the costs of its development or promotion.
In addition, if we decide to pursue A variety of factors may adversely affect our results of operations and growth opportunities in new categories and new category segments or in financial condition during periods of economic uncertainty or instability, regions in which we have no prior experience or limited experience, we social or labour unrest or political upheaval in the markets in which we may become exposed to unexpected or greater risks and potential losses.
For example, our operations and supply chains may be disrupted.
Consumers may purchase less or switch to purchasing generic products, Product innovation and development generally involve considerable costs, private label products and economy brands, as opposed to branded and may demand a lengthy process.
For example, research and development products, which could impact our sales, or result in a shift in our product required to develop health products could take a significant period of time, mix from higher margin to lower margin product offerings.
In addition, we from discovery to commercial product launch, and given the limited duration may face increased pricing pressure or competing promotional activity for of patents, the longer we take to develop and launch a product, the less is lower-priced products as competitors seek to maintain sales volumes.
the time for which we have exclusivity, in which we can recoup our Periods of economic upheaval may also expose us to greater counterparty development costs and seek to profit.
We may be unable to successfully risks, including with customers, suppliers and financial institutions, who complete clinical trials and obtain applicable regulatory approvals in a timely may become insolvent or otherwise unable to perform their obligations.
manner, or at all, and may fail to gain market approval for our products.
We may also experience greater fluctuations in foreign currency Additionally, we may encounter infringement claims by competitors, which movements, increased commodity prices and increased transportation and may preclude or delay commercialisation of our products.
Any delays could energy costs.
Periods of economic and political upheaval may also lead to result in us not being the first to market, and could undermine our government actions, such as imposition of martial law, trade restrictions, competitive advantage.
If any of the products we are currently developing, foreign ownership restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, or may develop in future, fail to become market-ready or to achieve nationalisation or expropriation of property or other resources, or changes commercial success at expected levels, or at all, we may incur substantial in legal and regulatory requirements, including those resulting in losses.
If we fail to develop or upgrade our equipment, technology and potentially adverse tax consequences.
We may also be unable to access manufacturing processes at least in line with our competitors, we may be credit markets, including the commercial paper market, on favourable unable to compete effectively and lose market share.
terms, or at all, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our cost of capital.
Substantial harm to our reputation, or the reputation of one or more of our brands, may materially adversely affect our business.
The majority of Sources of Group revenue and Growth our brands have worldwide recognition.
Maintaining our established Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a significant portion of our reputation and trust with key stakeholders, including consumers, revenue, and any material adverse change to demand for existing customers and trading partners is critical to our business.
Various factors Powerbrands or any future products we may develop, could have a may adversely impact our reputation, including product quality material adverse effect on our business.
Our results of operations depend inconsistencies or contamination.
We have in the past faced quality-related to a significant extent on our ability to launch and sell products that appeal issues, which resulted in trade and consumer recalls and such recalls may to, and are accepted by consumers and, in particular, our Powerbrands.
have a material adverse impact on our reputation.
Raw materials that we Consumer preferences, tastes and habits are constantly evolving.
Various source for production may become contaminated through the supply factors, some of which are beyond our control, may have an adverse chain, and other product defects may occur due to human error or impact on demand for our Powerbrands.
For example, certain products equipment failure, among other things.
Reputational risks may also arise within our health and hygiene categories have in the past exhibited, and with respect to the methods and practices of third parties that are part of may in the future exhibit, seasonal fluctuations.
Launch of new products or our supply chain, including labour standards, health, safety and variants of our existing Powerbrands may not neutralise the impact of environmental standards, raw material sourcing, and ethical standards weak performance of one of our Powerbrands.
Similarly, our failure to in the countries in which we operate.
We may also be the victim of differentiate our existing Powerbrands or future products from product tampering.
competitors, whether through quality, innovation, marketing or otherwise, may adversely impact consumer demand for our products.
Certain Any perceived or actual concerns related to our products, our supply chain, markets, including a number of emerging markets in which we plan to or the industry more generally, such as the long-term effects of household focus our investment and growth efforts, exhibit more volatile demand in chemicals and OTC over-the-counter drug ingredients on human health reaction to macro-economic factors than other markets.
Similarly, if and the environment, may be widely disseminated online, on consumer RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 126
