Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies Accounting Convention The Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
As permitted by s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Foreign Currency Translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
Taxation The tax charge credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Fixed Assets Fixed asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and their recoverable amount, which is determined as the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out by the Directors if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with FRS 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill.
employee Share Schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost to the employee and the fair market value of the awards at date of grant is charged to the income statement over the period to which the performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to the profit and loss account.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the income statement account over the same period with the credit included in equity.
Where awards are contingent upon future events an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting year and reflected in the accounting entries made.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company accounts.
debtors Debtors are initially recognised at fair value less provision for impairment.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Share Capital Transactions When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from the profit and loss reserve.
dividends Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation i. e. when they have been approved.
Cash Flow Statement Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has presented a Group cash flow statement in its 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Directors have not prepared a cash flow statement for the Company.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 120
