Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies Foreign Currency Translation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups Basis of Preparation and Changes in Accounting Policy presentation currency.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and related Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency interpretations, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Statements exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign are also in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange Standards Board.
These Financial Statements have been prepared under rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain are recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value is applied.
A summary of the Groups more important accounting policies is set out below.
The financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into Sterling on the following basis: The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year end date.
The Directors have a reasonable Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for the year.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity on management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported consolidation.
amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based Business Combinations on managements best knowledge at the time, actual amounts may The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of ultimately differ from those estimates.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the The Group applies, for the first time, amendments to IAS 32 Financial acquisition date.
Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities, amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets Measurement Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the accounting and IFRIC 21 Levies.
combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and These do not impact the accounting policies applied in preparing the retrospectively applied.
annual consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any Management is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets from contracts with customers which will be effective for annual periods including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is beginning on or after 1 January 2017, and the revised issuance of IFRS 9 recorded as goodwill.
Financial Instruments which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are at the date of acquisition.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
None of Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Statements of the Group.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the Group Financial Statements from the acquisition date.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its subsidiary the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
Subsidiary liabilities and contingent liabilities with acquisition related costs capitalised undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
as part of the cost of acquisition.
Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its disposal of Subsidiaries power over the investee to affect its returns.
The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group results up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that subsidiary.
Any Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent that they do not related assets and liabilities.
This may mean amounts previously recognised represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
Subsidiaries accounting in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
policies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 76 Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued research and development non-Controlling interests Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
On an  basis the non-controlling interest is measured at either fair value or a proportionate share of the acquirees Development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred, net assets.
unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised and then amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with the owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of income Tax such transactions.
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that revenue it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive when the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are passed to income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, Net revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction, or substantively enacted, at the during the year and comprises gross sales net of trade spend, customer balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of allowances for credit notes, returns and consumer coupons.
methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns and consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their projected market conditions.
carrying amounts in the Group Financial Statements.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or Trade spend, which consist primarily of customer pricing allowances, liability in a transaction other than a business combination that affects placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by sales neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at that time.
Deferred tax agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributers.
Accruals is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These when the deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Net revenue also includes royalty income arising from the licensed use of our brands recognised on an accruals basis.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the investor is able to control the timing of Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from net revenue.
temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
operating Segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention to settle these performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the balances on a net basis.
Goodwill and other intangible Assets exceptional items i Goodwill Where material, non-recurring expenses or income are incurred during a Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since 4 January 1998 is included in period, these items are disclosed as exceptional items in the income intangible assets.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to this date has not statement.
Examples of such items are: been reinstated.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit CGU, or group of CGUs, to which it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
Restructuring and other expenses relating to the integration of an Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
acquired business and related expenses for reconfiguration of the Groups activities.
ii Brands Impairments of current and non-current assets.
Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated Gains losses on disposal of businesses.
Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, where Acquisition-related costs.
Brands are amortised over their useful Costs arising as a result of material and non-recurring regulatory and economic life, except when their life is determined as being indefinite.
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to The Group also presents an alternative adjusted earnings per share the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the calculation to exclude the impact of the exceptional items.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and Management believes that the use of adjusted measures such as adjusted increasing marketing investment.
Within the Group, a brand typically operating profit, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share comprises an assortment of base products and more innovative products.
provide additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash generating units to which they relate and are tested annually for impairment.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of The Directors also review the useful economic life of brands annually, to ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals net of ensure that these lives are still appropriate.
If a brand is considered to have any related lease incentives are charged against profit on a straight-line a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over that period.
basis over the period of the lease.
iii Distribution Rights impairment of Assets Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and re-acquired Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested annually distribution rights are capitalised where the rights comply with the above for impairment at the level where cashflows are considered to be largely requirements for recognition of acquired brands.
If the registration or independent.
This is at either a CGU level, or as a group of CGUs.
All assets distribution rights are for a defined time period, the intangible asset is are tested for impairment if there is an event or circumstance that indicates amortised over that period.
If no time period is defined, the intangible that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
If an assets carrying asset is treated in the same way as acquired brands.
value exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets iv Software fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a period of seven years for Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows expected Enterprise Resource Planning systems and five years or less for all other to be generated by an asset or group of assets where cash flows are not software licences.
The pre-tax discount rate used in asset impairment reviews is based on a weighted average cost of capital for Property, Plant and equipment comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated the Group including, where appropriate, an adjustment for the specific depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, which is risks associated with the relevant CGU.
shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold land and inventories assets under construction, the cost of property, plant and equipment is Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost written off on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected useful comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overhead life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined within the expenses based on normal operating capacity required to get the following limits: inventory to its present location and condition.
Inventory valuation is determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
Net realisable value is the Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: estimated selling price less applicable selling expenses.
Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the lease: and Trade receivables Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years except for Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held environmental assets which are not more than 20 years.
at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
If there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full amount of the In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are receivable, an impairment is recognised through the Income Statement.
written off over 10 years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that a debtor will over five years or less.
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if The impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value necessary, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment are of the receivable and the present value of the related estimated future cash reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
Freehold land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Cash and Cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits with Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
determined by comparing the assets carrying value with any sale proceeds, and are included in the income statement.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, bank overdrafts that form an integral part of the Groups cash management, and are repayable on leases demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance Bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at lease inception balance sheet.
at the lower of the assets fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance Borrowings charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestincome statement over the life of the lease so as to produce a constant bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income period.
Leased property, plant and equipment are depreciated on the same statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
basis as owned plant and equipment or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 78 Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued employee Share Schemes derivative Financial instruments and hedging Activity Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the market interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially price of the share awards at date of grant and the cost to the employee recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are is charged to the income statement over the period to which the subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to retained the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated earnings.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
are charged to the income statement over the same period with a Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are treated as a hedge of a corresponding liability recognised.
Where awards are contingent upon highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
non-market performance conditions, an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting At inception the relationship between the hedging instrument and the period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in the hedging transaction in offsetting The proceeds received from the exercise of share options, net of any changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
This effectiveness directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the share premium when the options are exercised.
hedging instrument to ensure that the instrument remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
Pension Commitments Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of defined Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised contribution plans is charged to the income statement as contributions are immediately in the income statement.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to contributions have been paid.
the Income Statement in the period when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or no longer The deficit or surplus recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation existing in other comprehensive income at that time remains in at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined other comprehensive income, and is recognised when the forecast benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If the the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows by or loss in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the the yield on high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in Income Statement.
which the benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to 2.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are the terms of the pension obligations.
The costs of providing these defined classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value of benefit plans are accrued over the period of employment.
Actuarial gains derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
net investment hedges Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges of The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate used the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the period comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging relationship is to the net defined benefit liability asset.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation The net pension plan interest is presented as finance income expense.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Accounting estimates and Judgements Post-retirement Benefits other than Pensions The Directors make a number of estimates and assumptions regarding the Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their future, and make some significant judgements in applying the Groups retirees.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the accounting policies.
These include: period of employment and the liability recognised in the balance sheet Estimates of future business performance and cash generation, is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted discount rates and long-term growth rates supporting the net book to its present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
amount of indefinite life intangible assets at the balance sheet date refer to note 9.
If the actual results should differ, or changes in Provisions expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or would adversely impact operating results.
constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not The continuing enduring nature of the Groups brands supporting the that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation: and the indefinite lives of these assets refer to note 9. amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at the present Measurement of intangible assets both in business combinations and value of the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle other asset acquisitions requires the Group to identify such assets.
the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Assumptions and estimates are made about future cash flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified intangible assets refer Share Capital Transactions to note 26.
When the Group purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for change in equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury, in order to promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an year end, an accrual is reflected in the Group accounts based on our equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled would be expectation of customer and consumer uptake during the promotional transferred from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve.
period and the extent to which temporary promotional activity has occurred.
Details of trade spend accrued as at year end are provided dividend distribution in note 20.
Dividends to owners of the parent are recognised as a liability in the period The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved Group operates.
Assumptions are made in applying these laws to the and paid.
taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to Dividend payments are recorded at fair value.
Where non-cash dividend the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or payments are made, gains arising as a result of fair value remeasurements, credited to the income statement in the period in which it is are recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years refer to note 11.
The Group recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important note 17.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 80
