Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc our opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations In our opinion, Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs Parent Company financial received statements the financial statements : Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006. the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration What we have audited Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs financial statements comprise: and returns.
the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: and We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the Act 2006. financial statements and are identified as audited.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit other required reporting our responsibilities and those of the directors Consistency of other information As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set Companies Act 2006 opinion out on page 63, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial fair view.
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial ISAs UK & Ireland reporting statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the statements: or Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may our audit: or come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117 Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014. mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 March 2015 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 118
