Other Information activities, which are subject to antitrust and competition laws.
Such laws all, in respect of such risks, and we have in the past, and may in the future, and regulations may impact our ability to pursue, or delay the face disputes with our insurers in the event that they refuse to cover a implementation of, strategic transactions.
In such instances, we may be required to bear substantial losses, which could adversely impact our capital expenditures, expenses We operate in a number of countries in which bribery and corruption pose and liabilities.
Any of the foregoing could materially adversely impact our significant risks, and we may be exposed to liabilities under anti-bribery laws business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any violation of applicable money laundering laws could also have a negative impact on us.
We are subject to anti-bribery laws and Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside the product liability area regulations that prohibit us and our intermediaries from making improper could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and payments or offers of payments to foreign governments, their officials and financial condition.
Outside the product liability area, we are subject to political parties or private parties, for the purpose of gaining or retaining legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the ordinary course of business, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, the US Foreign Corrupt business, and we may become involved in legal proceedings, which Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and similar laws worldwide.
Given our include, but are not limited to, claims alleging intellectual property rights extensive international operations, particularly in emerging markets, where infringement, breach of contract, environmental laws and health and bribery and corruption may be more commonplace, we are exposed to safety laws.
From time to time, we face consumer complaints and or civil significant risks, particularly with respect to parties that are not always or criminal investigations in respect of our products and their alleged subject to our control such as agents and joint venture partners.
These risks purposes, including in respect of advertising claims that we make about may be heightened for us due to our operations in the health care sector, our products.
Significant claims, or a substantial number of small claims, which in recent years has experienced greater compliance risks than other may be expensive to defend and may divert management time and our sectors.
We may also be held liable for successor liability violations of such resources away from our operations.
laws, committed by companies which we acquire, or in which we invest.
Where appropriate, we establish provisions to cover potential Acquisitions also expose us to risk of ongoing compliance issues until such litigation-related costs.
Such provisions may turn out to be insufficient, time as we can fully integrate acquired operations into our compliance and and any insurance coverage we maintain may not cover our losses fully, or control frameworks.
Moreover, due to the significant amounts of money at all.
We cannot predict the outcome of individual legal actions.
We may involved in global supply contracts, there is also potential for suppliers to settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment or attempt to bribe our employees.
Actual or alleged violations of anti-bribery determination of liability.
We may do so to avoid the cost, management laws could result in severe consequences, including, but not limited to, civil efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences of and criminal sanctions, termination of contracts by our counterparties, continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid disruptions to our business and reputational harm, all of which could defences to liability.
We may also do so when the potential consequences materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the costs of settlement.
We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering financial condition or results of operations or could cause significant regulations.
Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business.
us could have a negative effect on our results of operations.
intellectual Property Our business is subject to product liability claims.
As a product We may be unable to secure and protect our intellectual property manufacturer, we are subject, from time to time, to certain legal rights.
Our business relies on protecting our brands and intellectual proceedings and claims arising out of our products, including as a result of property rights.
We may not be able to obtain and perfect our intellectual unanticipated side effects or issues that become evident only after property rights and, even if obtained, these rights may be invalidated, products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Some of our circumvented or challenged in future.
Third parties may infringe on, or products present inherent dangers, including due to the presence of misappropriate, our rights, by for example, asserting rights in, or chemicals, which if mishandled or misused, could result in significant ownership of, our trademarks, trade dress rights, designs, patents, damage.
We have paid in the past, and may be required in the future to copyrights or other intellectual property rights.
If we fail to discover any pay, compensation for losses or injuries that are allegedly caused by our infringements of our intellectual property rights, or are otherwise unable products.
Product liability claims may arise, among other things, from to successfully defend and enforce our rights, our business, prospects, and claims that our products are defective, contain contaminants, provide results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Sales of inadequate warnings or instructions, or cause personal injury to persons or counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our brands or inferior lookalike damage to property.
Product liability claims, if resolved unfavourably, or if brands which resemble ours, could result in confusion among consumers settled, could result in injunctions and or may require us to pay substantial between our products and such other brands.
Consequently, our brand damages, and related costs, including punitive damages, as well as result equity and reputation may be undermined.
Any failure to perfect or in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions.
If one of our products is successfully assert our intellectual property rights could make us less found to be defective, we could be required to recall it, and or we may be competitive and may have a material adverse effect on our business, required to alter our trademarks, labels, or packaging, which could result operating results and financial condition.
In addition, our intellectual in adverse publicity, significant expenses, potential disruptions in our property rights may be undermined if one of our trademarks or brand supply chain and loss of revenue.
names were to become a generic name for, or synonymous with, a general class of product or service.
Should any of our trademarks become We have in the past voluntarily implemented, and may in the future face genericised, competitors may be allowed to use the genericised trademark product quality concerns and voluntarily implement, product recalls, which to describe their similar products in certain countries.
could expose us to product liability claims.
Additionally, complaints, investigations and litigation by consumers or government authorities The loss of patent protection, ineffective protection, or expiration of our relating to our products, our competitors products or individual patents may impact our financial condition and results of operations.
ingredients may result in judgements that affect us and or the industry in Intellectual property laws and patent offices are still developing, which we operate.
A recall of a product that is similar to ours could result particularly in emerging markets.
Patent protection varies in different in confusion concerning the scope of the recall and or a decline in countries, and can be substantially weaker in emerging markets in which consumer confidence about our products, which may consequently impact we operate, when compared to the United States and the European Union.
our business and results of operations.
We may not be insured fully, or at We have in the past faced, and may in the future face, significant RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 131
