Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies Foreign Currency Translation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups Basis of Preparation and Changes in Accounting Policy presentation currency.
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and related Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency interpretations, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Statements exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign are also in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange Standards Board.
These Financial Statements have been prepared under rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain are recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value is applied.
A summary of the Groups more important accounting policies is set out below.
The financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into Sterling on the following basis: The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year end date.
The Directors have a reasonable Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for the year.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity on management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported consolidation.
amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based Business Combinations on managements best knowledge at the time, actual amounts may The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of ultimately differ from those estimates.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the The Group applies, for the first time, amendments to IAS 32 Financial acquisition date.
Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities, amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets Measurement Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the accounting and IFRIC 21 Levies.
combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and These do not impact the accounting policies applied in preparing the retrospectively applied.
annual consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any Management is in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 15 Revenue non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets from contracts with customers which will be effective for annual periods including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is beginning on or after 1 January 2017, and the revised issuance of IFRS 9 recorded as goodwill.
Financial Instruments which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are at the date of acquisition.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
None of Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Statements of the Group.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the Group Financial Statements from the acquisition date.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt For acquisitions before 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its subsidiary the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
Subsidiary liabilities and contingent liabilities with acquisition related costs capitalised undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
as part of the cost of acquisition.
Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its disposal of Subsidiaries power over the investee to affect its returns.
The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group results up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that subsidiary.
Any Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent that they do not related assets and liabilities.
This may mean amounts previously recognised represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
Subsidiaries accounting in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
policies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 76
