Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26 Business Acquisitions and disposals Acquisition of k-y On 10 March 2014 the Group announced its acquisition of the global rights to the K-Y brand and related business, a leader in intimate lubricants, from Johnson & Johnson.
The transaction was predominantly completed in May 2014 with regulatory clearance pending in the UK and New Zealand.
The K-Y brand will sit alongside the RB Powerbrand Durex to create a unique portfolio of brands in the sexual wellbeing category.
Its addition will immediately transform RBs sexual wellbeing category in the US and Brazil.
K-Y will benefit from RBs strong innovation, brand equity investment and go-to-market capabilities.
This transaction has been accounted for by the acquisition method.
All assets and liabilities were recognised at the following provisional fair values.
The full consideration transferred was paid in cash in the period.
The amount of consideration transferred over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the Group financial statements: Provisional fair value m Intangible assets 304 Provisions 5 Net assets acquired 299 Goodwill 23 Total consideration transferred 322 Goodwill represents expected synergies in manufacturing, procurement and commercial fixed costs.
Acquisition related costs have been expensed within exceptional items in the income statement.
The amount of revenue and profit of the K-Y business since acquisition was not material in the context of the Group Income Statement.
Had the business been acquired on 1 January 2014, the revenue and profit of the Group for the period would not have been materially different to that appearing on the Group Income Statement.
Consideration paid in relation to this acquisition is included within Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired in the Group Cash Flow Statement.
disposal of Footwear Business In August 2014, in line with RBs continued focus on its core business of health, hygiene and home, the Group entered an agreement with Aurelius to license out the Scholl brand for use within the Footwear market and dispose of certain associated operating assets.
Collaboration with Bristol-myers Squibb BmS There are no changes to the provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as part of this business combination.
27 demerger of rB Pharmaceuticals On 23 December 2014, the Group demerged the pharmaceutical business in the form of a dividend in specie refer to note 28.
Gain on demerger The transaction was recognised and measured in accordance with IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners.
This treatment leads to a gain on the distribution of non-cash assets to its Shareholders.
2014 m Fair value of the dividend paid 1,046 1 Carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed 292 Net realised losses in other comprehensive income reclassified to the income statement 3 Exceptional transaction costs deducted from gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax 59 Gain on non-cash dividend paid, net of tax 1,282 1 Included within the carrying amount of the net liabilities distributed is 195m of cash and 467m of debt held by RB Pharmaceuticals on demerger.
The fair value of the dividend was determined by reference to the average closing price of Indivior PLC over the five trading days between 23 December 2014 and 31 December 2014.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 114
