FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 192 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 Information for Reed Elsevier PLC The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the combined ordinary shareholders businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and ReedElsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2014, and theCorporate Governance Shareholder services Statement of Reed Elsevier NV are available on the Groups The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered by website, and from the registered ofces of the respective parent Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for companies shown on page 194.
Additional financial information, shareholders at www.
Shareview allows including the interim and full-year results announcements, shareholders to monitor the value of their shareholdings, view Interim Management Statements and presentations is also their dividend payments and submit dividend mandate available on the Groups website, www.
Shareholders can also submit their proxy voting The combined financial statements set out in the Annual Reports instructions ahead of company meetings, as well as update their and Financial Statements are expressed in sterling, with personal contact details.
Shareview Dealing provides a share summary combined financial information expressed in euros.
The purchase and sale facility.
Equinitis contact details appear on financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and ReedElsevier NV page 194. are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
Electronic communications Interim results While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish interim available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance results in hard copy.
The interim results are available on the with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's articles of Groups website, www.
association, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Groups website asthe main method of communicating with shareholders.
Byregistering Share price information their details online at Shareview, shareholders canbe notied by Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London email when shareholder communications arepublished on the Stock Exchange.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are CREST electronic proxy appointment service by using the quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American procedures described in the CREST manual.
Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Dividend mandates Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Groups and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment date.
website, other online sources and the financial pages of some A dividend mandate form can be obtained online at newspapers.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 194.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT WWW.
COM Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 194. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the DividendReinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 194.
indd 192 06 03 2015 13:24 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 193 Share dealing service How to avoid share fraud and boiler room scans A telephone and internet dealing service is available through The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has issued some guidance ReedElsevier PLCs Registrar, Equiniti, which provides a simple on how to recognise and avoid investment fraud: way for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC Legitimate firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037037 between 8.00am you unexpectedly with an offer to buy or sell shares.
and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder If you receive an unsolicited phone call, do not get into a account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Individual savings account Check the Financial Services Register available at A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is available www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you through Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from isauthorised by the FCA.
If you wish to call the person or firm www.
co. uk ISA, by writing to Equiniti at the address back, only use the contact details listed on the Register.
shown on page 194, or by calling their ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have any ShareGift contact details on the Register, or if you are told that they are The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation out of date.
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be www.
obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
If you do buy or sell shares through an unauthorised firm, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
On 28 July 1986, each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 Consider obtaining independent financial and professional nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p advice before you hand over any money.
If it sounds too good to each.
On 2 May 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into be true it probably is.
two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new How to report a scam 51 116 ordinary shares of 14 p nominal value for every 67 ordinary If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the shares of 12.5p each held.
share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can nd out more about investment scams.
You can also call the Capital gains tax FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and share If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should consolidation referred to above results in an equivalent mid-market contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
51 116 price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 14 p nominal value.
Warning to shareholders unsolicited investment advice From time to time shareholders may receive unsolicited calls from fraudsters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams, sometimes known as boiler room scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
