RELX Group is a world-leading provider of information solutions for professional customers Credits across industries.
Designed and produced by mslgroup.
com We help scientists make new discoveries, lawyers Board photography by Douglas Fry, Piranha Photography win cases, doctors save lives, and executives forge Printed by Pureprint Group, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral commercial relationships with their clients.
We help The 2014 Annual Reports and Financial Statements is printed using paper containing a minimum of 75% recycled content, insurance groups offer customers lower prices ofwhich 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp isbleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
by assessing risk better, and save taxpayers and Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their environmental printing technology: vegetable inks were used throughout.
Pureprint is a consumers money by enabling governments and CarbonNeutral company.
Both manufacturing mill and printer are ISO14001 registered and are Forest Stewardship Council financial groups to detect fraud.
RELX Group is owned by two parent companies: Reed Elsevier PLC is the London Stock Exchange listed vehicle for holding shares in RELX Group.
Shareholders in Reed Elsevier PLC own a 52.9% economic interest in the Group.
Reed Elsevier NV is the Amsterdam Stock Exchange listed vehicle for holding shares in RELX Group.
External shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV own a 47.1% economic interest in the Group.
Forward-looking statements The Reports and Financial Statements 2014 contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes todiffer materially from those currently being anticipated.
The terms estimate, project, plan, intend, expect, should be, will be, believe, trends and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differ from those foreseen in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to competitive factors in the industries in which the Group operates: demand for the Groups products and services: exchange rate uctuations: general economic and business conditions: legislative, fiscal, tax and regulatory developments and political risks: the availability of third-party content and data: breaches of our data security systems and interruptions in our information technology systems: changes in law and legal interpretations affecting the Groups intellectual property rights and other risks referenced from time to time in the filings of the Group with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
indd 4-6 09 03 2015 17:46 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Reports and Financial Statements www.
