FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 96 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the The Groups combined financial statements are prepared in income statement other than where hedge accounting applies as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards set out below.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The combined Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position explained on page 73. date.
Income and expense items and cash ows of foreign The Group accounting policies under IFRS are set outbelow.
operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
significant individual items of income and expense and Basis of preparation cash ows in foreign operations are translated at the rate The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed prevailing on the date of transaction.
Exchange differences arising Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can be regarded are classied as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
as having the interests of a single economic group.
For 2014 the When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative Group combined financial statements the combined financial translation differences are recognised within the income statements represent the combined interests of both sets of statement in the period.
shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their subsidiaries, forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign associates and joint ventures, together with the two parent exchange risks.
Details of the Groups accounting policies in companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV respect of derivative financial instruments are set out below.
Revenue In preparing the combined financial statements, subsidiaries of Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales less anticipated Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are returns on transactions completed by performance, excluding accounted for under the acquisition method and investments in customer sales taxes.
associates andjoint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
Alltransactions and balances between the combined Revenues are recognised for the various categories as follows: businesses are eliminated.
subscriptions on periodic despatch of subscribed product or On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate or joint rateably over the period of the subscription where performance is venture, fair values, reecting conditions at the date of acquisition, not measurable by despatch: transactional ondespatch or are attributed to the net assets, including identiable intangible occurrence of the transaction: and advertising onpublication or assets acquired.
This includes those adjustments made to bring over the period of online display.
accounting policies into line with those of the combined Where sales consist of two or more independent components businesses.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised on included in the combined financial statements up to or from the each component as it is completed by performance, based on date that control passes from or to the combined businesses.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the combined Employee benets businesses are identied separately from combined The expense of dened benefit pension schemes and other shareholders equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the post-retirement employee benets is determined using the amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition projected unit credit method and charged in the income statement andthe non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date as an operating expense, based on actuarial assumptions of acquisition.
reecting market conditions at the beginning of the financial year.
These financial statements form part of the statutory information Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement to be provided by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, but are of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
not for a legal entity and do not include all the information required to be disclosed by a company in its financial statements under the Past service costs are recognised immediately at the earlier of UK Companies Act 2006 or the Dutch Civil Code.
Additional when plan amendments or curtailments occur and when related information is given in the Annual Reports and Financial restructuring costs or termination benets are recognised.
Statements of the parent companies set out on pages 147 to 185.
Settlements are recognised when they occur.
Alist of principal businesses is set out on page 197.
Net pension obligations in respect of dened benefit schemes are included in the statement of financial position at the present value Foreign exchange translation of scheme liabilities, less the fair value of scheme assets.
Where The combined financial statements are presented in pounds schemes are in surplus, i. e. assets exceed liabilities, the net sterling.
Additional information providing a translation into euros pension assets are separately included in the statement of of the primary combined financial statements and selected notes financial position.
Any net pension asset is limited to the extent that is presented on pages 135 to 145. the asset is recoverable through reductions in future contributions.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of The expense of dened contribution pension schemes and other exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each employee benets is charged in the income statement as incurred.
statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial 94118 Reed AR p091-134.
indd 96 06 03 2015 12:43 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 97 Share based remuneration Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that The fair value of share based remuneration is determined at the taxable profits will be available against which the deductible date of grant and recognised as an expense in the income temporary differences can be utilised, and are reviewed at the end statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, taking of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no account of the estimated number of shares that are expected to longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to vest.
Market based performance criteria are taken into account allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
when determining the fair value at the date of grant.
Non-market Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of based performance criteria are taken into account when temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets estimating the number of shares expected to vest.
The fair value and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
ofshare based remuneration is determined by use of a binomial Deferred tax is not discounted.
orMonte Carlo simulation model as appropriate.
All the Groups share based remuneration is equity settled.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase Borrowing costs consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on period of time to bring to use are capitalised.
All other interest on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding to deferred tax borrowings is expensed as incurred.
The cost of issuing liabilities recognised in respect of acquired intangible assets.
borrowings is generally expensed over the period of borrowing so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment when there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired and at Taxation least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and income statement and not subsequently reversed.
deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event ofgoodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profit ondisposal.
or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or through a business combination in which case the tax appears in Intangible assets the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or stated in the statement of financial position at their fair value as at recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items the date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax generated intangible assets are stated in the statement of rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the financial position at the directly attributable cost of creation of the date of the statement of financial position.
Management asset, less accumulated amortisation.
periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to comprise: market-related assets e. g. trademarks, imprints, interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on brands : customer-related assets e. g. subscription bases, the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
customer lists, customer relationships : editorial content: software and systems e. g. application infrastructure, product Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising delivery platforms, in process research and development : between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying contract-based assets e. g. publishing rights, exhibition rights, amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is supply contracts : and other intangible assets.
Internally calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or generated intangible assets typically comprise software and substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which systems development where an identiable asset is created that is are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is probable to generate future economic benets.
realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints determined to temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary have indefinite lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis over differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can intangible assets with nite lives are as follows: market and be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse customer-related assets 3 to 40 years: content, software and in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not other acquired intangible assets 3 to 20 years: and internally recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill developed intangible assets 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints which is not deductible for tax purposes.
determined to have indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to impairment review at least annually.
indd 97 06 03 2015 12:43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 98 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies Property, plant and equipment If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is Property, plant and equipment are stated in the statement of estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net carrying financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up to a immediately in the income statement in administration and maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over the duration otherexpenses.
Depreciation is provided on other assets on a straightInventories and pre-publication costs line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: leasehold Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the lower of improvements shorter of life of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, and estimated years: ofce furniture, xtures and ttings 5 to 10 years: computer net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, representing costs systems, communication networks and equipment 3 to 7 years.
incurred in the origination of content prior to publication, are expensed systematically reecting the expected sales prole over Investments the estimated economic lives of the related products, generally up Investments, other than investments in joint arrangements and to five years.
associates, are stated in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio are Leases classied as held for trading, with changes in fair value reported in Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations disposals and other non-operating items in the income statement.
similar to those attaching to owned assets are classied as assets All other investments are classied as available for sale with held under finance leases and capitalised within property, plant changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the and equipment or software and the corresponding liability to pay investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which rentals is shown net of interest in the statement of financial time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is position as obligations under finance leases.
The capitalised value brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
All items of the assets is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the recognised in the income statement relating to investments, other shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets than investments in joint arrangements and associates, are concerned.
The interest element of the lease payments is reported as disposals and other non-operating items.
allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
Available for sale investments and venture capital investments held for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a securities.
The fair value of listed securities is determined based straight-line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental income on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over managements estimate of fair value based on standard valuation the term of the relevant lease.
techniques, including market comparisons and discounts of future cash ows, having regard to maximising the use of observable Cash and cash equivalents inputs and adjusting for risk.
Advice from valuation experts is used Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits as appropriate.
and other short-term highly liquid investments and are held in the statement of financial position at fair value.
All joint arrangements are classied as joint ventures because the Group shares joint control and has rights to the net assets of the Assets held for sale arrangements.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their accounted for under the equity method and stated in the statement current condition and for which a sales process is considered of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition highly probable to complete are classied as assets held for sale, changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment and are carried at the lower of carrying value and fair value less invalue.
Fair value is based on anticipated disposal proceeds, typically derived from rm or indicative offers from potential Impairment acquirers.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated At each statement of financial position date, the carrying amounts following their classication as held for sale.
Liabilities of of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed to businesses held for sale are also separately classied on the determine whether there is any indication that those assets have statement of financial position.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair Financial instruments value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order to Financial instruments comprise investments other than determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the investments in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, borrowings other assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash and derivative financial instruments.
ows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is any indication that the asset may be impaired.
indd 98 06 03 2015 12:43 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 99 Investments other than investments in joint ventures and Cash ow hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging associates are classied as either held for trading or available for instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no sale, as described above.
These investments are typically longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative classied as either Level 1 or 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is The fair value of such investments is based on either quoted either retained in equity until the rm commitment or forecasted market prices or other observable market inputs.
transaction occurs, or, where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed in the Trade receivables are carried in the statement of financial position income statement.
at invoiced value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the Provisions ageing of trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as a Borrowings and payables are recorded initially at fair value and result of a past event, the obligation is reasonably estimable, and subsequently carried at amortised cost other than xed rate itis probable that settlement will be required.
Provisions are borrowings in designated hedging relationships for which the measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to carrying amount of the hedged portion of the borrowings is settle the obligation at the statement of financial position date.
subsequently adjusted for the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
Shares held in treasury Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV that are Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest rate repurchased by the respective parent companies and not and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value of derivative cancelled are classied as shares held in treasury.
The financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is of future cash ows are recognised net of tax directly in equity in recognised as a deduction from equity.
Shares of the parent the hedge reserve.
If a hedged rm commitment or forecasted companies that are purchased by the Employee benefit Trust are transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or also classied as shares held in treasury, with the cost recognised liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, as a deduction from equity.
the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the The most significant accounting policies in determining the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are financial condition and results of the combined businesses, and recognised in the income statement in the same period in which those requiring the most subjective or complex judgement, relate the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion to the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, capitalisation of ofhedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
development spend, taxation and accounting for dened benefit Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as pension schemes.
hedging instruments are classied as held for trading and recorded in the statement of financial position at fair value, Goodwill and acquired intangible assets withchanges in fair value recognised in the income statement.
On acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the fair assets other than goodwill on a fair value basis, with any excess value of xed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are purchase consideration representing goodwill.
The valuation of adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being acquired intangible assets represents the estimated economic hedged with a corresponding income or expense included in the value in use, using standard valuation methodologies, including income statement within finance costs.
The offsetting gains or asappropriate, discounted cash ow, relief from royalty and losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related derivatives comparable market transactions.
Acquired intangible assets are are also recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
capitalised and amortised systematically over their estimated When the related derivative expires, is sold or terminated, or no useful lives, subject to impairment review.
longer qualies for hedge accounting, the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged borrowing is amortised in the income Appropriate amortisation periods are selected based on statement over the period to maturity of the borrowing using the assessments of the longevity of the brands and imprints, the effective interest method.
strength and stability of customer relationships, the market positions of the acquired assets and the technological and The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, competitive risks that they face.
Certain intangible assets in forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts relation to acquired science and medical publishing businesses represent the replacement costs calculated using observable have been determined to have indefinite lives.
The longevity of market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long-term these assets is evidenced by their long established and well borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash regarded brands and imprints, and their characteristically stable ows at observable market rates.
These instruments are market positions.
accordingly classied as Level 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
indd 99 06 03 2015 12:43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 100 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies The carrying amounts of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible Pensions assets in each business are reviewed for impairment at least The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension schemes annually.
The carrying amounts of all other intangible assets across the world.
The largest schemes are in the UK, the US and arereviewed where there are indications of possible impairment.
the Netherlands, as described in note 5 to the combined financial An impairment review involves a comparison of the carrying value statements.
These schemes require management to exercise of the asset with estimated values in use based on the latest judgement in estimating the ultimate cost of providing management cash ow projections, approved by the Board.
Key post-employment benets, especially given the length of each areas of judgement in estimating the values in use of businesses schemes liabilities.
The recognition of certain scheme liabilities is are the growth in cash ows over a forecast period of up to five also subject to judgement.
Accounting for dened benefit pension years, the long-term growth rate assumed thereafter and the schemes involves judgement about uncertain events, including discount rate applied to the forecast cash ows.
A description of the life expectancy of the members, salary and pension increases, the key assumptions and sensitivities is provided in note 14. ination, the future operation of each scheme and the rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
Estimates for Development spend these factors are used in determining the pension cost and Development spend embraces investment in new products and liabilities reported in the financial statements.
The estimates other initiatives, ranging from the building of online delivery made around future developments of each of the critical platforms, to launch costs of new services, to building new assumptions are made in conjunction with independent actuaries.
Launch costs and other ongoing Each scheme is subject to a periodic review by independent operating expenses of new products and services are expensed as actuaries.
Information regarding some of the assumptions used incurred.
The costs of building product applications, platforms for valuation is provided in note 5 to the combined financial and infrastructure are capitalised as intangible assets, where the statements, together with a sensitivity analysis.
investment they represent has demonstrable value and the technical and commercial feasibility is assured.
Costs eligible for Other significant accounting policies capitalisation must be incremental, clearly identied and directly The accounting policies in respect of revenue recognition, attributable to a particular project.
The resulting assets are pre-publication costs, and property provisioning are also amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Impairment reviews significant in determining the financial condition and results of the are carried out at least annually.
Judgement is required in the combined businesses, although the application of these policies is assessment of the potential value of a development project, the more straightforward.
identication of costs eligible for capitalisation and the selection Revenue recognition policies, while an area of management focus, ofappropriate asset lives.
are generally straightforward in application as the timing of product or service delivery and customer acceptance for the Taxation various revenue types can be readily determined.
Allowances for The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions, giving rise product returns are deducted from revenues based on historical tocomplex tax issues that require management to exercise return rates.
Where sales consist of two or more components that judgement in making tax determinations.
While the Group is operate independently, revenue is recognised as each component is confident that tax returns are appropriately prepared and led, completed by performance, based on attribution of relative value.
amounts are provided in respect of uncertain tax positions that reect the risk with respect to tax matters under active discussion Pre-publication costs incurred in the creation of content prior to with tax authorities, or which are otherwise considered to involve production and publication are typically deferred and expensed uncertainty.
Amounts are provided using the best estimate of tax over their estimated useful lives based on sales proles.
Such expected to be paid based on a qualitative assessment of all costs typically comprise direct internal labour costs and relevant factors.
However, it is possible that at some future date externally commissioned editorial and other fees.
Estimated liabilities may be adjusted as a result of audits by taxing useful lives generally do not exceed five years.
Discussions with tax authorities relating to crosscarried out to assess the recoverability of carrying amounts.
border transactions and other matters are ongoing.
Although the The Group has exposures to sub-lease shortfalls in respect of outcome of these discussions cannot be predicted, no significant certain property leases for periods up to 2024.
Provisions are impact on the financial position of the Group is expected.
recognised for net liabilities expected to arise on these exposures.
In addition, estimation of income taxes includes assessments of Estimation of the provisions requires judgement in respect of future the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets are head lease costs, sub-lease income and the length of vacancy only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable periods.
The charge for property provisions was nil 2013: nil.
based on existing tax laws and forecasts of future taxable profits Further information is provided in note 24 to the combined against which the underlying tax deductions can be utilised.
recoverability of these assets is reassessed at the end of each reporting period, and changes in recognition of deferred tax assets will affect the tax liability in the period of that reassessment.
indd 100 06 03 2015 12:43 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 101 Standards and amendments effective for the year The interpretations and amendments to IFRS effective for 2014 have not had a significant impact on the Groups accounting policies or reporting.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and their expected impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of the Group are set out below.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the 2017 financial year.
The new standard provides a single point of reference for revenue recognition replacing a range of different revenue accounting standards, interpretations and guidance.
TheGroup is in the process of assessing the impact of this new standard.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2018 financial year.
The standard replaces the existing classication and measurement requirements in IAS39 for financial assets by requiring entities to classify them as being measured either at amortised cost or fair value depending on the business model and contractual cash ow characteristics of the asset.
For financial liabilities, IFRS9 requires an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value to present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk in the other comprehensive income rather than the income statement.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assets and liabilities in the combined financial statements.
Additionally, a number of amendments and interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on the Groups accounting policies and reporting.
