Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 161 Parent company accounting policies Basis of preparation Other assets and liabilities are are stated at historic cost, less The parent company financial statements have been prepared provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
under the historical cost convention in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Unless Shares held in treasury otherwise indicated, all amounts in the financial statements are in The consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, for millions of pounds.
shares repurchased is recognised as shares held in treasury and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Details of share capital The parent company financial statements should be read in and shares held in treasury are set out in note 11 of the Reed conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes Elsevier PLC consolidated financial statements and note 26 of the presented on pages 152 to 159. combined financial statements.
The parent company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as explained on page 151.
Foreign exchange translation Transactions entered into in foreign currencies are recorded at As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the the exchange rates applicable at the time of the transaction.
company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Reed Elsevier PLC accounting policies under UK GAAP are Taxation setout below.
Deferred tax is provided in full for timing differences using the liability method.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the Investments extent that they are considered recoverable in the short term.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision, if Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
appropriate, for any impairment in value.
The fair value of the award of share options and conditional shares over Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares to employees of the combined businesses are treated as a capital contribution.
Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Investments Subsidiary Joint undertaking ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2013 309 2,310 2,619 Equity instruments granted to Group employees 2 2 At 1 January 2014 309 2,312 2,621 Equity instruments granted to Group employees 2 2 At 31 December 2014 309 2,314 2,623 Principal joint ventures and subsidiaries are set out in notes 15 and 16 of the Reed Elsevier PLC consolidated financial statements.
2 Related party transactions All transactions with joint ventures, subsidiaries and RELX Group employees, which are related parties of Reed Elsevier PLC, are reected in these financial statements.
Transactions with key management personnel including share based remuneration costs are set out in note 1 and in note 28 to the combined financial statements and details of the directors remuneration are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 75 to 88.
3 Events after the balance sheet date Effective 25 February 2015, Reed Elsevier PLC transferred its direct ownership interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV to its jointly-owned company Reed Elsevier Group plc, for consideration of 31,613 ordinary voting shares in Reed Elsevier Group plc and this newly combined single group entity was named RELX Group plc.
ReedElsevier PLC also transferred non-interest bearing, payable-on-demand receivables of 475m to Reed Elsevier Group plc for consideration of 2 ordinary non-voting shares.
Reed Elsevier PLC has retained its 52.9% economic interest in the combined businesses, and no gains or losses were recorded on the transactions.
Further details are provided on page 66.
