FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 154 REED ELSEVIER PLC Group accounting policies Basis of preparation Taxation Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and These consolidated financial statements have been prepared deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event accounting standards.
They report the consolidated statements of which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profit income, comprehensive income, cash ow, financial position and or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or changes in equity of Reed Elsevier PLC incorporated and through a business combination in which case the tax appears in domiciled in the UK, and have been prepared in accordance with the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or Standards Board IASB.
recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the concern basis, as explained on page 151.
Unless otherwise date of the statement of financial position.
Management indicated, all amounts shown in the financial statements are in periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect millions of pounds.
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to The combined financial statements presented in pounds sterling interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on on pages 92 to 95 form an integral part of the notes to Reed the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Elsevier PLCs statutory financial statements.
The accounting Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying statements are set out on pages 96 to 101. amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Determination of profit substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the combined results has been are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is calculated on the basis of the 52.9% economic interest of the Reed realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Elsevier PLC shareholders in the combined businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier PLC and its Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable subsidiaries.
Dividends paid toReed Elsevier PLC and Reed temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can taxcredit available to certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not In Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial statements, an recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill adjustment is required to equalise the benefit of the tax credit which is not deductible for tax purposes.
between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises on Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and taxable profits will be available against which the deductible reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by 47.1% of the temporary differences can be utilised: and reviewed at the end of total amount of the tax credit.
each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all Investments or part of the asset to be recovered.
Reed Elsevier PLCs economic interest in the net assets of the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets statement of financial position as investments in joint ventures, and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier Deferred tax is not discounted.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial Foreign exchange translation statements are set out on pages 99 to 100.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each Standards and amendments effective for the year statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities The interpretations and amendments to IFRS effective for 2014 that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the have not had a significant impact on the Groups accounting rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The exchange gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Elsevier PLCs economic interest in the net assets of the combined Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and businesses are classied as equity and transferred to the their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the considered on page 101 of the combined financial statements.
related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
