FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 172 REED ELSEVIER NV Group accounting policies Basis of preparation interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classied These consolidated financial statements have been prepared as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation accounting standards.
They report the consolidated statements of differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
income, comprehensive income, cash ow, financial position and changes in equity of Reed Elsevier NV incorporated and domiciled Taxation in the Netherlands, and have been prepared in accordance with Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event Standards Board IASB.
which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profit or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going through a business combination in which case the tax appears in concern basis, as explained on page 169.
Unless otherwise the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
indicated, all amounts shown in the financial statements are in millions of euros.
Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items The combined financial statements presented in pounds sterling that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax on pages 92 to 95 form an integral part of the notes to Reed rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
The primary date of the statement of financial position.
Management combined financial statements and selected notes are presented periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect in euros on pages 135 to 145.
The accounting policies adopted in to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on on pages 96 to 101. the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Determination of profit Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising The Reed Elsevier NV share of the Groups combined results has between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying been calculated on the basis of the 50% economic interest of the amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the combined businesses, calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or aftertaking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier NV and substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which itssubsidiaries.
are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier NV is equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus, other than in Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable special circumstances, the UK tax credit available to certain temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary ReedElsevier PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and distributes a higher proportion of the combined profit attributable joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can than Reed Elsevier PLC.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised and is credited directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
on temporary differences that arise from goodwill which is not Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its R shares held by deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the possibility to which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised: and receive dividends directly from Dutch afliates.
Reed Elsevier PLC reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the is compensated by direct dividend payments by RELX Group plc.
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will The settlements owing from these arrangements are also taken be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and Investments liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
Deferred Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets of the tax is not discounted.
combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty statement of financial position as investments in joint ventures, Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier statements are set out on pages 99 to 100.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Standards and amendments effective for the year The interpretations and amendments to IFRS effective for 2014 Foreign exchange translation have not had a significant impact on the Groups accounting Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of policies or reporting.
exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The gains considered on page 101 of the combined financial statements.
or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs 50% 94118 Reed AR p170-178.
