Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 105 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 OUBOHJCMF BTTFUT DPOUJOVFE Goodwill acquired has arisen on the acquisition of a number of businesses and has an indeterminable useful life.
Therefore it is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually and at any point during the year when an indicator of impairment exists.
Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs, which are currently the statutory entities acquired.
This is the lowest level in the Group at which goodwill is monitored for impairment and is at a lower level than the Groups operating segments.
In the table below, only the goodwill relating to the acquisition of R&R Fixtures, LLC is expected to be subject to tax relief.
The analysis of acquired goodwill on consolidation is: 2013 b 000 itp GmbH 2,960 Renishaw Diagnostics Limited 92.4% 1,784 Renishaw Mayeld S. A.
75% 1,569 Measurement Devices Limited 6,661 Renishaw Software Limited 1,559 R&R Fixtures, LLC 4,556 Other smaller acquisitions 895 Total acquired goodwill 19,984 The recoverable amounts of acquired goodwill are based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use cash ow projections with assumptions as follows: t JUQ NC BOE 3FOJTIBX 4PGUXBSFJNJUFE CPUI QBSU PG UIF NFUSPMPHZ TFHNFOU o BDUVBM PQFSBUJOH SFTVMUT BOE BO BWFSBHF HSPXUI SBUF PG 5%for five years with anil growth rate to perpetuity 2013: same basis.
"BZmFME 4 "" CPUI JO UIF IFBMUIDBSF TFHNFOU."
FBTVSFNFOU %FWJDFTJNJUFE BOE 3 3'JYUVSFT LLC both in the metrology segment five-year business plans with a nil growth rate to perpetuity 2013:samebasis.
These are considered prudent estimates based on managements view of the future and experience of past performance.
The growth rates used in the business plans vary from 20% to 34%, except for Renishaw Diagnostics Limited, which is in its research and development phase and thus has negligible revenue to date.
A pre-tax discount rate of 12% has been used in discounting the projected cash ows of itp GmbH, Renishaw Software Limited, Measurement Devices Limited and R&RFixtures, LLC 2013: 12%.
A pre-tax discount rate of 15% has been used for Renishaw Diagnostics Limited and Renishaw Mayeld S. A.
The discount rates have been derived by comparison with rates adopted by other market participants, adjusted to reect Group and CGU specic risks.
On this basis, no impairment write-downs are required.
There is significant headroom in all the above and for an impairment to arise, there would need to be a significant material deterioration in business: this is considered to be remote.
An increase of 5% in the discount rate would not result in an impairment.
For goodwill to be impaired in the CGU with the minimum headroom, the discount rate would have to increase to 32%.
OWFTUNFOUT JO BTTPDJBUFT The Group has the following investments in associates all investments being in the ordinary share capital of the associate, whose accounting years end on 30th June: 0XOFSTIJQ Ownership Country of 2013 incorporation % RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. Slovenia 50 Metrology Software Products Limited England & Wales 50 During the year, the Group disposed of its 20% shareholding in Delcam plc.
