"94 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes forming part of the financial statements ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT #BTJT PG QSFQBSBUJPO Renishaw plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK."
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements with the exception of first time application of IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Except for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised the adoption of these standards has not had a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
Theimpact of adopting IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised is set out below.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies, that have a significant effect on the financial statements andestimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are noted below.
#BTJT PG BDDPVOUJOH The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to items referred to in the derivative financial instruments note below.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in preparing both the 2013 and 2014 financial statements.
$SJUJDBM BDDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities inthenext financial year are listed below: i Inventory Determining the value of inventory requires judgement, especially in respect of provisioning for slow moving and potentially obsolete inventory.
Management consider historic and future forecast sales patterns of individual stock items when calculating inventory provisions.
ii Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash ows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 10. iii Dened benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future dened benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
Theseinclude future mortality, discount rate, ination and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are given in note 15. iv Amortisation of intangibles and impairment The periods of amortisation of intangible assets require judgements to be made on the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets todetermine anappropriate rate of amortisation.
Future assessments of impairment may lead to the writing off of certain amounts ofintangible assets and the consequent charge in the Consolidated income statement for the accelerated amortisation.
v Capitalisation of development costs Product development costs are capitalised once a project has reached a certain stage of development and these costs are subsequently amortised over a five-year period.
Judgements are required to assess whether the new product development has reached the appropriate point for capitalisation of costs to begin.
Should a product be subsequently obsoleted, the accumulated capitalised development costs would need to be immediately written off in the Consolidated income statement.
