"94 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes forming part of the financial statements ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT #BTJT PG QSFQBSBUJPO Renishaw plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK."
The group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements with the exception of first time application of IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Except for the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised the adoption of these standards has not had a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
Theimpact of adopting IAS 19 Employee Benets Revised is set out below.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies, that have a significant effect on the financial statements andestimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are noted below.
#BTJT PG BDDPVOUJOH The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to items referred to in the derivative financial instruments note below.
The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in preparing both the 2013 and 2014 financial statements.
$SJUJDBM BDDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities inthenext financial year are listed below: i Inventory Determining the value of inventory requires judgement, especially in respect of provisioning for slow moving and potentially obsolete inventory.
Management consider historic and future forecast sales patterns of individual stock items when calculating inventory provisions.
ii Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash-generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash ows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 10. iii Dened benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future dened benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
Theseinclude future mortality, discount rate, ination and salary increases.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and judgements in respect of the current year are given in note 15. iv Amortisation of intangibles and impairment The periods of amortisation of intangible assets require judgements to be made on the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets todetermine anappropriate rate of amortisation.
Future assessments of impairment may lead to the writing off of certain amounts ofintangible assets and the consequent charge in the Consolidated income statement for the accelerated amortisation.
v Capitalisation of development costs Product development costs are capitalised once a project has reached a certain stage of development and these costs are subsequently amortised over a five-year period.
Judgements are required to assess whether the new product development has reached the appropriate point for capitalisation of costs to begin.
Should a product be subsequently obsoleted, the accumulated capitalised development costs would need to be immediately written off in the Consolidated income statement.
"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 95 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE FX SFWJTFE PS DIBOHFT UP FYJTUJOH BDDPVOUJOH TUBOEBSET The following adopted IFRS has been applied by the Group for the first time in these financial statements."
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets mandatory for years commencing on or after 1st January 2013 for dened benefit schemes.
Theamendments introduce various changes: i past service costs are recognised immediately and no longer deferred: ii the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost on liabilities in the income statement are replaced by interest on the net dened benefit asset liability using the discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligation: this changes the allocation of the total return on plan assets between the income statement and other comprehensive income: iii asset management costs are recognised in other comprehensive income while other administrative costs are charged to operating profits.
Both were previously charged to operating profits: iv the Group continues to assess the impact of the amended standards requirement to recognise employee contributions over the employees period of service, rather than as the contributions are received: and v removal of the accounting policy choice for recognition of actuarial gains and losses is not expected to have any impact on the Group, since it already recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income.
The amended standard was required to be applied retrospectively.
Therefore, the 2013 results have been restated with the result that the profit before tax for that year is now 2.3m lower than previously reported, with a compensating credit in other comprehensive income.
The effect of the amendment on the current financial year is a decrease in net finance income by 2.9m, with a corresponding credit in other comprehensive income.
"The analysis of the adjustments to the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expenditure for 2013 is: $POTPMJEBUFE JODPNF TUBUFNFOU 'JOBODJBM JODPNF 2013 &YQFDUFE SFUVSO PO BTTFUT JO UIF QFOTJPO TDIFNFT 000 Originally reported 6,583 Restated Change to Financial income 6,583 'JOBODJBM FYQFOTFT 2013 OUFSFTU PO QFOTJPO TDIFNFT 000 Originally reported 5,638 Restated 1,378 Change to Financial expenses 4,260 2013 000 Change to profit before taxation 2,323 Tax thereon 548 Change to profit for the year 1,775 $POTPMJEBUFE TUBUFNFOU PG DPNQSFIFOTJWF JODPNF BOE FYQFOTF 2013 3FNFBTVSFNFOU PG EFOFE CFOFt MJBCJMJUJFT 000 Originally reported 3,183 Restated 860 Change to Remeasurement of dened benefit liabilities 2,323 2013 %FGFSSFE UBY PO JUFNT UIBU XJMM OPU CF SFDMBTTJFE 000 Originally reported 427 Restated 121 Change to Deferred tax on items that will not be reclassied 548 2013 000 Change to Total other comprehensive income and expense 1,775 96 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes continued ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE The following standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have been adopted by the EU, but only become effective for accounting periods commencing after 30th June 2014: a IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities, amendment to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures are a package of new standards and amendments that set out the basis for consolidation and the accounting requirements."
The Group will adopt these standards on1st July 2014. b Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
This amendment sets out the criteria required for offsetting.
The Group will adopt this amendment on 1st July 2014.
The Group does not currently expect that adoption of these standards will have a significant effect on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
$POTPMJEBUJPO Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern thenancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Theconsolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
3FWFOVF Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated income statement when the significant risks and rewards ofownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is the time of despatch.
Where certain products require installation, partoftherevenue may be deferred until the installation is complete.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, or the possible return of goods.
'PSFJHO DVSSFODJFT Foreign subsidiaries results are translated into Sterling at weighted average exchange rates for the year, which is effected by translating each foreign subsidiarys monthly results at exchange rates applicable to each of the respective months.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies atthe balance sheet date are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at that date.
Differences on exchange resulting from the translation of overseas assets and liabilities are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses arising on currency borrowings used to hedge the foreign currency exposure on the net assets of the foreign operations are accounted for directly in equity, to the extent that hedge accounting criteria are met and are included in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
See the note on derivative financial instruments below, for the accounting policies for forward exchange contracts and currencyborrowings.
%FSJWBUJWF fiOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends onthe nature of the item being hedged.
FEHF PG OFU JOWFTUNFOU JO GPSFJHO PQFSBUJPO The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be aneffectivehedge is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
Theeffectiveness of the hedging is tested monthly.
PPEXJMM BOE PUIFS JOUBOHJCMF BTTFUT Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred tothe Group.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Deferred consideration relating to acquisitions is subject to discounting to the date of acquisition and subsequently unwound to the date of the final payment.
Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identiable assets acquired, net of deferred tax.
Identiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 97 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE Where there exists an option to purchase the non-controlling interest of a subsidiary and the option is deemed to have been exercised, the Group has adopted the  method."
Any changes to the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment or earlier if there are any indications of impairment.
The annual impairment review involves comparing the carrying amount to the estimated recoverable amount and recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable amount is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised through the Consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets such as customer lists, patents, trade marks, know-how and intellectual property that are acquired by the Group are stated atcost less amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over theestimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets included in the Consolidated balance sheet reect the benefit derived by the Group and vary from 5 to 10 years.
On a transaction by transaction basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests, which have both present ownership interests and are entitled to a proportionate share of net assets of the acquiree in the event of liquidation, either at its fair value or at its proportionate interest inthe recognised amount of the identiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
All other non-controlling interests are measured attheir fair value at the acquisition date.
Where there are changes to the Companys interests in subsidiaries while retaining control, any differences between the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted and fair value of consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity in the other reserve.
OUBOHJCMF BTTFUT m SFTFBSDI BOE EFWFMPQNFOU DPTUT Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends and has the technical ability andsufcient resources to complete development, future economic benets are probable and the Group can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
OUBOHJCMF BTTFUT m TPGUXBSF MJDFODFT Intangible assets comprising software licences, that are acquired by the Group, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The useful life of each ofthese assets is assessed on an individual basis and they range from 2 to 10 years.
1SPQFSUZ QMBOU BOE FRVJQNFOU Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost ofassets less their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years Vehicles 3 to 4 years 8BSSBOUZ QSPWJTJPOT The Group provides a warranty from the date of purchase on all its products.
This is typically for a 12-month period, although up to three years is given for a small number of products.
A warranty provision is included in the financial statements, which is calculated on the basis of historical returns and internal quality reports.
&NQMPZFF CFnefiUT The Group operates contributory pension schemes, largely for UK, Ireland and USA employees, which were of the dened benefit type up to 5th April 2007, 31st December 2007 and 30th June 2012 respectively, at which time they ceased any future accrual for existing members and were closed to new members.
The schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the group nances.
Pension scheme assets of the dened benefit schemes are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate ofreturn onahigh-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Remeasurements arising from dened benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest.
The Company recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income and all other expenses related to dened benefit plans are included in the Consolidated income statement.
The pension schemes surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the Consolidated balance sheet under employee benets.
Where a guarantee is in place in relation to a pension scheme deficit, liabilities are reported in accordance with IFRIC 14.
"98 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes continued ""DDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT DPOUJOVFE Foreign-based employees are covered by state, dened benefit and private pension schemes in their countries of residence."
Actuarial valuations of foreign pension schemes were not obtained, apart from Ireland and USA, because of the limited number of foreign employees.
For dened contribution schemes, the amount charged to the Consolidated income statement represents the contributions payable to the schemes inrespect of the accounting period.
Accruals are made for holiday pay, based on a calculation of the number of days holiday earned during the year, but not yet taken.
$BTI BOE DBTI FRVJWBMFOUT Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term with an original maturity of less than three months deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated statement of cash ow.
%JWJEFOET Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately declared and authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
5BYBUJPO Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement except tothe extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
&YDFQUJPOBM JUFNT Exceptional items are items which due to their size, incidence and non-recurring nature have been classied separately in order to draw them tothe attention of the reader of the accounts and, in managements judgement, to show more accurately the underlying results of the Group.
Such items areincluded within the Consolidated income statement caption to which they relate and are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
PJOH DPODFSO The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic report, where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and the directors have considered the current financial projections.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
$BTh flPX IFEHFT Forward exchange contracts are recognised at fair value.
Where a forward contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in future cash inows, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity.
Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Consolidated income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
The ineffective part ofany gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the Consolidated income statement immediately.
The effectiveness of cash ow hedges is tested on a monthly basis by comparing the cash inows with the hedging amounts.
