128 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Shareholder information Subsidiary undertakings as at 30th June 2014 The following are the subsidiary undertakings of Renishaw plc, all of which are wholly-owned, unless otherwise stated.
The country ofincorporation and registration is England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
The country of incorporation is also the country of operation.
Theaccounting year end for each subsidiary undertaking is 30th June unless otherwise stated.
The shareholdings in all the subsidiary undertakings are in the ordinary share capital of those undertakings.
$PNQBOZ 1SJODJQBM BDUJWJUJFT Renishaw International Limited Overseas holding and investment company.
Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and Renishaw Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland inspection equipment.
Service, distribution, research and development and manufacture Renishaw S. A. S. France ofgroup products.
Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and itp GmbH Germany inspection equipment.
Wotton Travel Limited Travel agency.
Design and sale of molecular diagnostics and surface-enhanced Renishaw Diagnostics Limited 92.4% Scotland Raman spectroscopy products.
75% Switzerland Marketing of surgical robots for neurosurgical applications.
Renishaw Mayeld sarl 75% France Manufacture and sale of surgical robots for neurosurgical applications.
Manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology and Renishaw Metrology Systems Limited India 31st March inspection equipment.
Thomas Engineering and Construction Limited Distribution and service of laser scanning equipment.
Canada 31st December Manufacture and sale of additive manufacturing and rapid MTT Technologies Limited prototyping systems.
Renishaw Software Limited Development and sale of software solutions.
R&R Fixtures, LLC USA 31st December Manufacture and sale of xturing products.
Advanced Consulting & Engineering, Inc USA 31st December Supply of dimensional measurement products and services.
$PNQBOZ o QSJODJQBM BDUJWJUZ JT UIF TFSWJDF BOE EJTUSJCVUJPO PG HSPVQ QSPEVDUT Renishaw Inc USA Renishaw Sp.
z o. o. Poland Renishaw KK Japan OOO Renishaw Russia 31st December Renishaw GmbH Germany Renishaw AB Sweden Renishaw S. p. A. Italy Renishaw Austria GmbH Austria Renishaw Ibrica S. A. U. Spain Renishaw Korea Limited South Korea Renishaw AG Switzerland Renishaw Canada Limited Canada Renishaw Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Renishaw Israel Limited Israel Renishaw Shanghai Trading Company Limited The Peoples Republic Renishaw Latino Americana Ltda.
Brazil 31st December of China 31st December Renishaw Shanghai Management Company Limited The Peoples Renishaw Benelux BV The Netherlands Republic of China 31st December Renishaw Oceania Pty Limited Australia Renishaw Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Renishaw s. r. o. Czech Republic Renishaw Taiwan Inc Taiwan Measurement Devices Australia Pty Limited Australia Renishaw Mxico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 129 3FOJTIBX QMD Annual report and accounts 2014 Subsidiary undertakings continued as at 30th June 2014 $PNQBOZ OPO USBEJOH IPMEJOH PS EPSNBOU DPNQBOJFT MTT Investments Limited MTT Technologies Inc USA MTT Technologies srl Italy Measurement Devices Limited Measurement Devices US LLC USA Renishaw R&R Inc USA Renishaw Metrology Limited Renishaw Transducer Systems Limited Renishaw PT Limited Renishaw Advanced Materials Limited Equity held by a subsidiary undertaking.
