Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Additional Information 143 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures The Directors Report is a requirement of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors and re-election of Directors The UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Information on our Board of Directors and changes during 2014 can Rules LRs also require the Company to make other disclosures.
The be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 40.
TheUK Corporate Governance Report for the year on pages 39 to 76 forms Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code provides for all part of the Directors Report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the 2014 Annual Directors to stand for election or re-election each year and accordingly Report are cross-referenced where appropriate and taken together all Board members will seek re-appointment or re-election at the 2015 fulfil the requirements of the Companies Act, the DTRs and the LRs.
Full biographical details of all current Directors are set out on pages 40 to 41.
The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements of the Company and the group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc Directors interests in shares the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are shown on page 77.
During the year no Director had any material interest in any contract of significance to the groups The Company business.
Constitution Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales, Dividend with company number 5393279.
The Company is a holding company Information on the final dividend payment for 2014 can be found in with limited trading in its own right and with subsidiary undertakings in the Strategic Report on page 6. over 60 countries.
The material subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 133.
Outlook for 2015 Information on the Company outlook for 2015 can be found in the Articles of association and Directors powers Strategic Report on page 7.
The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the Share capital Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
There were 1,822,832,965 shares on issue at Under the articles, the Directors are responsible for the management 31December 2014 2013: 1,817,498,329.
Each ordinary share of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of other than treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any general Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles contain meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to on a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for the articles of association and such authorities are renewed by every share of which they are a holder.
shareholders each year at the AGM.
The articles do not contain special control rights or restrictions on transfer or limitations on the The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by holding of ordinary shares and no requirements for the prior approval another corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements of any transfers.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the special rights with regard to control of the Company.
As at 26 February 2015 the shareholders shown in the not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may Accountability to shareholders section of the Corporate Governance result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Report on page 50 had indicated that they had an interest in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital and were not subject to The articles of association also give power to the Board to appoint the 5% disclosure exemption under the Disclosure and Transparency and replace Directors, but also require Directors to retire and submit Directive.
No other interests have been disclosed to the Company in themselves for re-election at the first AGM following the appointment accordance with Disclosure and LR 5 either during the year or as at and for re-election by rotation, although Directors now submit 26 February 2015. themselves for re-election annually.
The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares of up In accordance with the articles of association, Directors can be to 181,154,313 shares was obtained at the AGM on 14 May 2014. appointed or removed by the Board or shareholders in general No purchases of its shares were made by the Company during 2014. meeting.
Amendments to the articles of association have to be The authority is normally renewable annually and approval will be approved by at least 75% of the votes cast by those voting in person sought from shareholders at the 2015 AGM to renew the authority for or by proxy are in favour of the resolution.
Subject to company law a further year.
and the articles of association the Directors may exercise all the Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe powers of the Company and may delegate authority to committees for shares was obtained at the AGM on 14 May 2014.
The authority and day-to-day management and decision-making to individual remains in force and approval will be sought from shareholders at the Executive Directors.
The articles of association are available 2015 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
During the year uponrequest and are displayed on the Companys website at 5,344,634 shares were issued to satisfy the exercise of the vested www.
com rights under the share incentive plan approved by shareholders in2008.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 144 Additional Information Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures continued Change of control provisions Going concern There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company upon a change of control of the Company, such as some financial and the group have adequate resources to continue in operation for and commercial agreements and employee share plans.
None of the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A description of the groups debt funding Further details on the groups net debt, borrowing facilities and arrangements is set out in Note C1 to the financial statements which financial risk management policies is provided in the C. Financing also describe the change of control provisions relating to the groups section of Notes to the Accounts on pages 119 to 131.
Key contracts Reporting, accountability and audit The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and relationships.
accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK Post balance sheet events company law requires that the Directors must not approve financial There are no post balance sheet events.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group.
In preparing the financial Political donations statements the Directors are required to: apply them consistently, It is the Companys policy not to make payments to political make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, organisations.
The Company does however maintain a shareholder state the basis on which they are prepared and prepare the financial authority to make payments of a political nature but does so only in statements on a going concern basis.
order to ensure that the Company has authority from shareholders for the limited number of activities associated with the operation of the The Directors must keep adequate accounting records for the Parent business which might be caught by the broad definition of payments Company to enable them to ensure that its financial statements of a political nature contained within current legislation.
There were no comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have a general payments to political organisations during 2014 2013: nil.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonable to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other Directors indemnity and insurance irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Information on the Directors indemnities can be found in the Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report Corporate Governance Report on page 49. and Corporate Governance Report that comply with law and Social, community, employment policies, gender regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and diversityissues integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Information on our colleagues, employment policies and community Companys website.
can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic The Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans and Chief Report on page 33.
Executives letter provides an overview of the development Human rights and performance of the Companys business in the year ended The Company supports the rights of all people as set out in the 31December 2014 and its position at the end of the year and covers Universal Declaration of Human Rights UDHR.
We acknowledge the likely future developments in the business of the Company and theresponsibility of businesses to respect human rights, by acting with the group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
5R 2 and due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others and to address 4.1.
8R, the required content can be found in the Strategic Report and any adverse impacts in which they are involved, in line with the UN the Directors Report, including material incorporated by reference.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
These Human The independent auditors report on pages 79 to 80 includes a Rights Principles reinforce the behaviours expected of our colleagues statement by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The as set out in the Companys Code of Conduct.
Directors recognise that their responsibility to present a fair, balanced Environment and Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions reporting and understandable assessment extends to interim and other priceInformation on our Environment and GHG reporting can be found in the sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information required Corporate responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 34. to be presented by law.
Research and development Statement of the Directors as to the disclosure of information Information on Innovations can be found in the Strategic Report on to the auditor page 24.
The Directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by s. 418 2 of the Related party transactions Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment and each Director has taken all of the steps that should have been ofdirectors, details of which are provided in the Directors taken to ensure that they are each aware of any relevant audit Remuneration Report or as set out in Note D2 on page 132, there information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors isno indebtedness owed to or by the Company to any colleague are aware of that information.
orany other person considered to be a related party.
Financial risk management Details of financial risk management and the relevant policies are disclosed in Note C1 on pages 120 to 122 of the Financial Statements.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Additional Information 145 Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are set out on Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of pages 40 to 41, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the to prepare group and Parent Company financial statements for each issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group a whole: and financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU b. the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company of the development and performance of the business and the financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
view of the state of affairs of the group and Parent Company and of The Directors Report on pages 40 to 78 and pages 143 to 145 their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 38 were approved by a duly Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: authorised committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and signed on its behalf by Daragh Fagan, the Company Secretary.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Daragh Fagan to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Secretary Company financial statements: and 26 February 2015 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Registered office: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the Parent Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, Camberley, Company will continue in business.
Surrey GU17 9AB The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Registered in England and Wales No: 5393279 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
