Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 59 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Future accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have financial statements of the Company for the year ended been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had 28 December 2014 comprise the Company and its any significant impact on the amounts reported in these subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
a Statement of compliance IFRS 10 Issued Consolidated Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in IFRS 11 Issued Joint Arrangements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 12 Issued Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates the European Union.
IAS 32 Amended Financial Instruments IAS 36 Amended Impairment of Assets b Going concern basis IAS 39 Amended Financial Instruments The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on IFRIC 21 Issued Levies a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the has adequate resources to continue in operational existence following Standards and Interpretations which have not been for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by Group and further comments on going concern are set out the EU : in the report of the Directors.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle c Basis of preparation Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of IFRS 9 Issued Financial Instruments 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
IFRS 15 Issued Revenue from contracts with Customers The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and impact on the financial statements of the Group in future assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount periods, except as that IFRS 9 will impact both the and fair value less costs to sell.
measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates a reasonable estimate of the effect of these Standards until and assumptions that affect the application of policies and a detailed review has been completed.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are d Basis of consolidation based on historical experience and various other factors that i Subsidiaries are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control results of which form the basis of making the judgements exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, differ from these estimates.
potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account, regardless of The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
Revisions to accounting estimates are The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if consolidated financial statements from the date that control the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the commences until the date that control ceases.
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
60 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued ii Associates g Property, plant and equipment Associates are those entities in which the Group has Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less significant influence, but not control, over the financial and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements see accounting policy l. include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have date that significant influence commences until the date that different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of of property, plant and equipment.
losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made The owner-occupied properties excluding land element payments on behalf of an associate.
acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised as described in accounting policy s. gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised Subsequent costs losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that e Foreign currency the future economic benefits embodied with the item will Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are statement as an expense as incurred.
translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas Depreciation operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated are taken directly to reserves.
useful lives are as follows: f Derivative financial instruments Freehold land Indefinite The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where Freehold buildings 50 years appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or from operational, financing and investment activities.
In 50 years, whichever accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold is lower or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Motor vehicles 4 years are accounted for as trading instruments.
Computer equipment 3-5 years Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at h Intangible assets Goodwill cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial All business combinations are accounted for by applying the instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
However, where derivatives qualify for respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net does not currently hold any derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount The classification and accounting treatment of business that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not at the balance sheet date, taking into account current been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap balance sheet at 1 January 2004. counterparties.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 61 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment m Share-based payment transactions losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and The share option programme allows Group employees to is formally tested for impairment annually see accounting acquire shares of the Company and all options are equitypolicy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is acquisition are recognised directly in the income statement.
measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
i Trade and other receivables The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less the actual number of share options that vest except where impairment losses see accounting policy l. forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
j Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
n Provisions Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a completion and selling expenses.
result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If k Cash and cash equivalents the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and current market assessments of the time value of money and, form an integral part of the Groups cash management are where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
o Deferred and current tax Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at l Impairment the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at annually to determine whether there is any indication the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred of impairment.
tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
cash generating unit CGU is compared to its estimated value in use.
Value in use calculations are based on discounted Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to cash flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are 2 and 50 years.
The discount rate used is the rate believed expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are by the Board to reflect the risks associated with each CGU.
enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, p Pensions the recoverable amount is estimated annually.
An impairment The Group makes contributions for eligible workers into loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset defined contribution pension plans and these contributions or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
and are not subsequently reversed.
All goodwill stated on the balance sheet relates to the acquisition of Blubeckers Limited q Onerous contracts and Brunning and Price Limited and is included in the A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the impairment analysis of the Pub restaurant business expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract conducted at each balance sheet date.
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
62 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued r Revenue Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for estimation and uncertainty services and goods provided excluding value added tax In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of as described above, management has made a number of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
Where judgements and estimations of which the following are the the Group operates a Concession unit under a franchise most significant: agreement, it acts as principal in this trading arrangement.
All revenue from franchise arrangements is recognised by the a Impairment of property, plant and equipment Group at the point of sale and licencing fees are recorded in The Group formally determines whether property, plant Cost of Sales as the goods are sold.
The Group does not act and equipment are impaired by considering indicators of as a franchisor in any trading relationship.
This requires the Group to determine the lowest level of assets which generate largely independent s Expenses cash flows cash generating units or CGU and to estimate i Operating lease payments the value in use of these assets or CGU: and compare these Payments made under operating leases are recognised in to their carrying value.
Cash generating units are deemed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term be individual units or a cluster of units depending on the of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a reduction in rental expense.
Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose ii Finance lease payments a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the of those cash flows.
The discount rate used in the year ended finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
28 December 2014 for all CGUs was based on the Groups The finance charge is allocated to each period during the weighted average cost of capital of 9.7% year ended lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of 29 December 2013: 9.9% as the Directors believe there are interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
iii Pre-opening expenses No impairment is required in the year ended Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date 28 December 2014. of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
b Impairment of loan note due Promotional and training costs are written off to the income The Group has an outstanding long-term receivable of 4.0m statement in the period in which they are incurred.
As a result of a detailed trading review of the business, the Board has made full provision iv Borrowing costs against the loan note due further details are provided in Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread over note 12. the term of the loan.
All other borrowings costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which c Lease classification they are incurred.
The Group has over 400 leases and therefore their classification as either finance or operating leases is critical to t Dividend policy the financial statements.
The accounting for leases involves In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet the exercise of judgement particularly whether the leases Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not meet the definition of an operating or a finance lease.
recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
u Commercial discount policy Commercial discounts represent a reduction in cost of goods and services in accordance with negotiated supplier contracts, the majority of which are based on purchase volumes.
Commercial discounts are recognised in the period in which they are earned and to the extent that any variable targets have been achieved in that financial period.
Costs associated with commercial discounts are recognised in the period in which they are incurred.
