STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Rexam is built on a strong culture of operational 3.3kt excellence.
It lies at the heart of our business and is a Reduction in aluminium key element as we seek cost leadership and sustainable Through the constant application of lean principles we reduced the value creation.
Through the application of continuous amount of aluminium we used improvement processes, we focus on delivering in 2014 by 3.3 thousand metric tonnes, again meeting our goal exceptional quality and customer service.
STEP CHANGE IN OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT PROVIDES WATER LIFE LINE 1.9bn Rexams safety vision for everyone who In 2014, our South American business took comes into contact with us is to ensure that their Good Days initiative to a new level.
New production capacity they all return home safely to their family Originally, every time a plant reached a set We increased capacity in Chile and friends each and every day.
of production and safety related KPIs on the to 1.9m cans per day.
This will same day, Rexam made a donation to a local In 2014, we made a significant step on not only enable us to capture charity.
In this case, the Brazilian plants regional growth opportunities our journey towards our goal of world class pooled their resources for the benefit of safety.
There was a 30% improvement in our but to produce special sizes, residents of a whole municipality.
thus avoiding the logistics lost time accident rate LTAR see chart on page 31 and a 58% improvement in our The concerted Good Day efforts helped costs of importation.
finance the construction of a pipeline to a village in the state of Pernambuco.
The Although we saw a reduction in the number of drought and poverty in the region are awful, our own life changing injuries, we continued to with many people starving and animals dying.
In 2015 and beyond Our idea was to use our resources to help we will continue to focus on improving our improve the day to day life of that community, DJSI contractor safety performance and introduce says Fernando Praxedes Santos, an engineer measures to track improvement.
Inclusion in 2014 indices at the Recife plant in northern Brazil and the We are one of only five packaging As part of our world class safety action plan we man behind the project.
The construction has companies listed in the Dow Jones introduced safety as one of our core values had a direct impact on the populations quality Sustainability Indices DJSI Europe.
This, coupled with the actions of life: they no longer have to walk 2km in the It is confirmation of the recognition to be implemented in our three year world sun to fetch water and they are able to grow by stakeholders that we are class safety plan, is expected to enhance watermelon, beans and other vegetables.
continually challenging ourselves to further our performance as we continue to be the most sustainable business strive towards our zero accident objective.
we can be a fundamental part in achieving Rexams goal to be the best beverage can maker in the world.
Our levels of operational excellence in South America directly contributed to bringing water to a remote village in the drought hit state of Pernambuco.
