STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations.
In preparing the consolidated set of financial statements, the segment analysis has been restated to reflect the disclosure of two reportable segments for the Beverage Cans business, Americas and Europe & Rest of World.
Previously only one reportable segment, Beverage Cans, was disclosed.
The change was made to better reflect the markets in which the Group operates.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements has been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2014.
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included in the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS10 had no impact on the Group.
The following accounting standards are effective for accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2014 and have not yet been adopted by the Group.
The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of IFRS9.
ii IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The standard addresses revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier adoption is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS15.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations not yet effective that would be expected to have an impact on the Group.
Going concern The Group meets its working capital requirements through its bank facilities.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further information on the Groups borrowings is given in notes 22 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are set out below.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses estimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and the discount rate.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below.
Details of the assumptions used for the two principal defined benefit pension plans and the retiree medical plan and sensitivities are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
