STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 147 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements of Rexam PLC are prepared under UK GAAP on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and share based payment and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account is not presented.
Foreign currencies All exchange differences arising on foreign currencies are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest Interest on cash and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the profit and loss account using the effective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and borrowings, all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where they relate to financing activities and are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Retirement benefits The pension rights of Rexam PLC employees are dealt with through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Group.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from Rexam PLC and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS17, Rexam PLC accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover Rexam PLC and a number of its subsidiaries and the deficit cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis, as the scheme has a large number of members who were employed by companies which are no longer in existence or are no longer part of the Group.
An actuarial valuation at a Group level on an FRS17 basis has not been performed, but a surplus at 31 December 2014 of 89m 2013: deficit of 10m has been calculated in accordance with IAS19.
Further details of the scheme and the surplus can be found in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share based payment Rexam PLC operates various equity settled share option schemes.
The services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
Equity settled share options granted directly to subsidiary company employees are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary.
The capital contribution is measured by reference to the fair value of the share options and recognised as an increase in the cost of investment with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
The recognition of the fair value is based on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and non market performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All market and non vesting conditions are included in fair value.
The Rexam Employee Share Trust holds shares in Rexam PLC which are presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from shareholders funds.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less provision for depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of tangible fixed assets over their expected lives by equal annual instalments.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets.
Assumed lives vary according to the class of asset as follows: Computer hardware and software 2 to 7 years Fixtures and fittings 4 to 10 years Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Dividends Under FRS21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends payable are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Income taxes The Company records a tax charge or credit in the profit and loss account calculated at the tax rates prevailing in the year for UK corporation tax and foreign taxes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different to those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
