Notes to the 2014 financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies Corporate information Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt, iron ore, thermal and metallurgical coal and uranium.
Activities span the world and are strongly represented in AustraliaandNorth America with significant businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, UK.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective subsidiaries together the Group and include the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates as explained in note 1 b below.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 4 March 2015.
Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Groups subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on the Groupsother related party relationships.
Basis of preparation of the financial statements The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the Groups 2014 financial statements are set out below.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards and in accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation and with: International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC both as adopted by the European Union EU and which are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2014: IFRIC 21 Levies which has been adopted by the EU and is mandatory as at 31 December 2015 for EU reporting and is available for early adoption: and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRIC which are mandatory as at 31 December 2014.
The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively referred to as IFRS in this report.
The Group has not early adopted any other amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet mandatory.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements fortheyear ended 31 December 2013 except for the implementation of IFRIC 21 and a number of minor amendments issued by the IASB which applied for the first time in 2014.
These new pronouncements do not have a significant impact on the accounting policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group and therefore prior period financial statements have not been restated for these pronouncements.
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2014.
Mandatory for 2015 and endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions.
The objective of the amendment is to simplify the accounting for employee or third party contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service.
Certain Annual Improvements to IFRS 2010 to 2012 cycle Annual Improvements to IFRS 2011 to 2013 cycle Mandatory for 2016 and beyond not yet endorsed by the EU Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative.
The amendment provides clarification of guidance in IAS 1 on materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38.
The amendments provide clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation.
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
The amendments deal with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture.
Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
The amendments deal with the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard includes a single approach for the classification of financial assets, based on cash flow characteristics and the entitys business model.
It introduces a new expected loss impairment model which requires expected losses to be recognised when financial instruments are first recognised.
The standard amends the rules on hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with the risk management practices of an entity.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these pronouncements which may have an impact on the Groups earnings or shareholders funds in future years.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in applying accounting policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual results may differ materially from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Key areas of judgment and estimation uncertainty are highlighted below and further information is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the financial statements.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies DLC structure see Dual listed companies structure on page 109 : Acquisitions note 1 b and note 37: Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and note 13: Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates note 1 j : Provision for onerous contracts note 1 i Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 1 k : Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h : Uncertain tax positions note 1 m : Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in acquisitions note 1 m : Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, e and g : Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : Identification of functional currencies note 1 d : Basis of consolidation note 1 b : Contingencies note 31: and Post-retirement cost assumptions note 1 n and note 45.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and note 13: Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates note 1 j : Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 26: Estimation of obligations for post-retirement costs note 1 n and note 45: Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 c, e and g : Contingencies note 31: and Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f. These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates on page 120. a Accounting convention The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, and for the related comparative periods, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise stated.
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or present them on the same basis as current period figures.
b Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies.
Control exists where the Companies have: power over the entities, ie existing rights that give them the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from their involvement with the entities: and the ability to use their power to affect those returns.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated fromthedateon which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Joint Arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement those that significantly affect the Companies returns require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has two types of joint arrangement: Joint Operations JOs : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather than by receivingashareofthe results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO: and its share of expenses.
These are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under the appropriate headings.
Joint Ventures JVs : A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
JVs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Associates: An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither control nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
com 111 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The Group uses the term equity accounted units EAUs to refer to associates and JVs collectively.
For all EAUs, the carrying value will include any long-term loans to the EAUs that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Under the equity accounting method the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
Acquisitions note 37 Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control is obtained.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and any equity interests issued by the Group.
Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any shortfall is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost of the share purchase that gives rise to control is included within Investing activities in the cashflow statement.
Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the  acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such purchases is included within Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
Disposals note 37 Individual non-current assets or disposal groups ie groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are met at the period end: the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use: and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales: and the sale is highly probable.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at the fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate or financial asset depending on thefacts.
Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has ceased, may be recycled to the income statement in proportion to the interest disposed of.
The cash proceeds of disposals are included within Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests where control is retained are recorded in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included within Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
c Sales revenue Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts.
All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for freight.
If the Groupisacting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties payable are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue, incidental to the main revenue-generating activities of the operations, and which is a consequence of producing and selling the main products, is treated as a credit to operating costs.
Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining charges.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: 112 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller proportion of ironore volumes being sold on the spot market.
Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period, based on the best available information at the period end.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Certain products are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after .
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally-priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on relevant forward market prices.
At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely-traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
The marking to market of provisionally-priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally-priced sales contracts is included in note 30. d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment inwhichthat entity operates.
For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies areretranslatedat year end exchange rates.
The Groups accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1 p iii.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date.
Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure notes 12 and 13 Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Investments in EAUs including any goodwill are tested for impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i.
The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
f Exploration and evaluation note 13 Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
com 113 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, ie the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow totheGroup.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed for impairment twice a year by management.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group which have arisen through acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price consideration may result in undeveloped properties being recognised at an earlier stage of project evaluation compared with organic projects.
The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the Groups intentions for development.
Subsequent expenditure on acquired undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of confidence threshold discussed above.
In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the output when existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
g Property, plant and equipment note 14 Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in progress is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
Ore reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Costs of evaluation of a smelter or refinery prior to approval to develop are capitalised under Capital works in progress, provided that there is a high degree of confidence that the project will be deemed to be commercially viable.
Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate payable on project-specific debt if applicable, or at the Groups cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intendeduseare complete.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
h Deferred stripping note 14 In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the cost of construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: it must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access to the orebody: and it must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for which access has been improved: and it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the stripping activity.
A component is a specific section of the orebody that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the larger orebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life eg a pushback.
Production phase stripping can give rise to two benefits: the extraction of ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be extracted in future periods.
When the cost of stripping which has a future benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to each of these activities based on a relevant production measure using a life of component strip ratio.
The ratio divides the tonnage of waste mined for the component for the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore mined for the component.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for allocating costs, particularly where there are significant by-products.
Stripping costs for the component are deferred to the extent that the current period ratio exceeds the life of component ratio.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated on a units of production basis based on expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of the component unless another method is more appropriate.
The life of component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual mine plan: they are a function of the mine design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the ratios.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact the ore reserves and for some mines, other mineral resources may also have an impact on the life of component ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after the first phase has taken place.
Where applicable, the Group considers this on a mine-by-mine basis.
Generally, the only ore attributed to the stripping activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life of component ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be extracted from the originally identified component.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping ie overburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping.
The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation for the purpose of accounting for initial stripping costs.
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within Property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in Depreciation on property, plant and equipment within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
i Depreciation and impairment notes 13 and 14 Depreciation of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and there is no reasonable alternative use for the asset.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally based on the expectedlifeofthe orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
Factors affecting the remaining service potential of smelters, for example, include smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when power is not sourced from the companys, or in some cases a local governments, electricity generating capacity.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of assets are reviewed annually and changes reflected prospectively.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight-line basis as follows: Units of production basis For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to production.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total expected production in current and future periods based on ore reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Other mineral resources may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence that they can be extracted economically.
This would be the case when the other mineral resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historic reserve conversion rates.
Other mineral resources would usually only be included in unit of production calculations where there are very large areas of contiguous mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and industrial minerals deposits.
The required level of confidence is unlikely to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore, compared with the above such as copper or gold.
In these cases, specific areas of mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their economic status can be predicted with confidence.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit current and future mines then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where there is a high degree of confidence that they will be brought into production in the future.
The quantum of mineral resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, however, does not take into account future development costs for mines whicharenot yet in production.
Measured and indicated resources are currently incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Groups Australian iron ore business.
Straight-line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Impairment charges reversals of non-current assets Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
The existence of an active market for intermediate products is also monitored and separate cash-generating units are identified even if the majority of those products are further processed internally and therefore the cash flows are not independent.
Impairment of financial assets is discussed in note p. In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations with independent cash-generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related business combination.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The Group conducts an internal review of the asset values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of information to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, such as changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors, are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication exists then an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
com 115 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is measured by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested.
The Group considers that the best evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement and, in this case, the recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1.
When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
No cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed life-of-mine and or long term production plans.
The latter may include brownfield expansions which have not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level in the Group.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental costs.
For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a market participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium term.
In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain constant where appropriate: as it is considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash flow forecasts may include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently qualify for inclusion in ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included when there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term production plan for the cash-generating unit.
This differs from value in use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its current condition and therefore does not include future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD calculations and therefore generally result in a higher value.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the current life of mine or long-term production plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan and or long term production plans are therefore the basis for forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are generally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which assume short-term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
The Group does not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices provide a good indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly influenced by spot prices.
The price forecasts used for ore reserve estimation are generally consistent with those used for impairment testing unless management deems that in certain economic environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tintos view on prices, in which case management estimates the assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Groups weighted average cost of capital, are used.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
In estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts for long-term exchange rates take into account spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are linked to price assumptions.
The great majority of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
IAS 36 requires that value in use be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered impairment are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased.
If appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised.
The carrying amount of the cash generating unit after reversal must be the lower of a the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and b the carrying amount that would have been determined net of amortisation or depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the cash-generating unit in prior periods.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
However, no provision is required provided that the related assets, which may be the wider cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are not fully impaired.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS j Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 the JORC code, which is produced by the AustralasianJoint Ore Reserves Committee.
Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
The depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in which mineral resources are taken into account for accounting purposes.
In addition, value may be attributed to mineral resources in purchase price allocations undertaken for the purposes of business combination accounting.
k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and certain refineries and smelters.
These provisions are based on all regulatory requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders.
Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no known restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain North American smelters which have water rights or power agreements with local governments.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their costs using current restoration standards and techniques.
Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of the estimated future costs of restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post closure.
Where appropriate, the provision is estimated using probability weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios.
The obligation may occur during development or during theproduction phase of a facility.
Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are reviewed six monthly during the life of the operation to reflect known developments.
The estimates are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the close-down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, including those resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
Changes in closure provisions relating to closed operations are charged credited to Net operating costs in the income statement.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance sheet date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within Finance items in the income statement.
Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensationand penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present value of such costs at the balance sheet date.
These costs are charged to Net operating costs, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown within Finance items.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
l Inventories note 16 Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw materials and consumable stores is the purchaseprice.
The cost of partly-processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production, including: labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: and production overheads.
Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as mined.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
m Taxation note 9 and note 17 Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted atthe balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions based on the Groups judgment of the probable amount of the liability, or recovery.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12.
The Group provides for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base which may be US$nil.
Even when there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
com 117 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued n Post-employment benefits note 45 The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
For post-retirement definedbenefitplans,  and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
The fair value of plan assets is the price that would be received to sell the assets in orderly transactions between market participants at the measurement date.
Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from theplan or reductions in future contributions.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the discount rate, the inflation assumption and the mortality assumptions.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those of the post-retirement obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used.
The inflation assumption is used to project increases in future benefit payments for those plans that have benefits linked to inflation.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at the net present value of the obligations.
Valuations of the obligations are carried out using the projected unit method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with allowance where appropriate for future increases to pay and pensions.
The values of the obligations are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement.
The interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plansare included within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units as appropriate.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
In particular, the difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
o Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
p Financial instruments note 30 i Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale and held to maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade receivables are included within this category: however, trade receivables subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales revenue.
c Heldtomaturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as loans and receivables.
Assets in this category are classified as Other investments and are classified as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date or the asset matures within 12 months.
Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs expensed in the income statement, and are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables and held to maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transactions costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Where relevant market prices are available, these are used to determine fair values, adjusted where necessary for market liquidity, bid offer spreads and credit considerations.
In other cases, fair values are calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 30.
Movements on the hedging reserve are disclosed in note 29.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
If impairment is identified for a financial asset carried at amortised cost the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the loss is recognised in the income statement.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant or prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates.
If such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the redemptionvalueis  maturity using the effective interest method.
The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
iii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives embedded in host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, derivatives and embedded derivatives may be designated as hedges.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on derivatives which are not designated as hedges are taken to the income statement.
The method of recognising the resulting  of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value hedges or, hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately when the hedged item is fide-recognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated inequityare recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, for example, property, plant and equipment, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is amortised or sold.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecast transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised .
Whenaforecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that is held in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement.
q Share-based payments note 44 The fair value of the Groups share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
Non-marketbased vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
com 119 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to determine whether they should be accounted for as equity or cash settled.
The Group no longer operates any plans as cash-settled.
However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
This is not standard practice.
In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cash-settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws and regulations.
The value of these awards is immaterial.
The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on market, or the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy-back.
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the difference is taken .
r Share capital notes 27 and 28 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, netoftax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any  incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
s Segment reporting notes 2 and 3 Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as Rio Tintos chief executive.
Critical accounting policies and estimates i  As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements, the consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
The 2014 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 9 January 2015.
The 2014 financial statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the Groups consolidated profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive income loss and consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under IFRSasdefinedon page 110 that would be required under the version of International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
ii Acquisitions note 37 The determination of the fair values of net identifiable assets acquired, and of any goodwill, involves significant judgment.
This is particularly the case when the acquisition involves little or no cash, for example when the Group gains control of a company in stages or by the issuance of shares.
The allocation of fair value between intangible assets, and the tangible assets with which they are used, is also judgmental.
The Group engages third-party valuers to advise on thepurchase price allocation for significant acquisitions.
iii Impairment review of asset carrying values notes 6, 12 and 13 Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
Estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions and the cost to complete asset construction are critical to determining the recoverable amounts for cash-generating units.
Where the recoverable amounts of the Groups cash-generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are also sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term commodity prices, production timing and recovery rates, exchange rates, operating costs, reserve estimates and discount rates.
Note 6 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 outline judgments in relationtothe testing of cash-generating units containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets respectively.
iv Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to theperiodover which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods intothefuturein view of the Groups investment intentions.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in the JORC code see note 1 j.
The amounts presented under IFRS and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an appropriate mining method and establish an extraction schedule.
It also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
There are many uncertainties in the estimation process and assumptions that are valid atthetimeof estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological data, as well as changes in assumptions, may change ore reserve and mineral resource estimates and may ultimately result in their restatement.
Changes in ore reserves and, in some cases, mineral resources, could have an impact on: depreciation and amortisation rates: the carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: deferred stripping calculations: provisions for close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
v Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios.
The ultimate cost of close-down and restoration is uncertain and 120 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS management uses its judgment and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations.
Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including: changes to the relevant legal or local national government ownership requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders: review of remediation and relinquishment options: the emergence of new restoration techniques: the timing of the expenditures: and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration although elements of the restoration and rehabilitation of each site are relatively unique to the site and, in some cases, there may be relatively limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent against which to benchmark cost estimates.
Where appropriate, external experts support the cost estimation process.
Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation and must comply with the Groups Capital Project Framework once the operation is ten years from expected closure.
The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and mineral resources, production rates, operating licences or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free discount rate used for such obligations requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and environmental costs which would affect future financial results.
Increases and decreases in environmental obligations are charged or credited directly to the income statement.
Increases and decreases in close-down obligations for operating businesses are accounted for as indicated in note k above.
An increase in capitalised close-downand restoration provisions would increase the unwind of the discount and depreciation charges in the income statement in future years and increase the carrying value of property, plant and equipment, potentially impacting any future impairment charges or reversals.
vi Deferral of stripping costs note 14 Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a mine and oflifeof component strip ratios is dependent on an individual mines design.
Changes to that design may introduce new components and or change the life of component strip ratios.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component strip ratiosevenif they do not affect the mines design.
Changes to the life of component strip ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and therefore the amortisation base for those costs.
The judgment depends on each mines specific circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another mining company could make a different judgment even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
vii Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in acquisitions Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax liability for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax was recognised in equity on transition to IFRS.
viii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development costs prior to the decision to mine construct note 13 Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A projects commercial viability is determined based on whether it will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks.
Once commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the appropriate authorisationlevel  whether the project should proceed.
In determining whether to approve a mining project, the Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with analyses of the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses for the key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to proceed.
In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised if there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is commercially viable.
The Groups view is that a high degree of confidence is greater than more likely than not that is greater than 50 per cent certainty and less than virtually certain that is less than 90 per cent certainty.
Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially viable requires a significant degree of judgment and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the projects current stage: project timeline: current estimates of the projects net present value including sensitivity analyses for the key assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
Development expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable.
In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are applied consistently from period to period.
Subsequent recovery of the carrying value for evaluation costs depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
ix Identification of functional currencies The functional currency for each subsidiary, joint operation and equity accounted unit, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other companies may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currencyofits businesses if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.
com 121 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued x Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 45 The value of the Groups obligations for post-retirement benefits is dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to the balance sheet date.
This amount will vary depending on the assumptions made about the future pay increases received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection, the number of individuals and how long individuals live in retirement.
Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the obligations relate to former employees.
As a consequence, the carrying value of the Groups post-retirement obligations is less sensitive to assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future inflation.
The assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, combined with consensus views on future inflation, and is derived using the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the assumption therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future inflation.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current mortality assumptions.
It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each country.
The discount rate used to value post-retirement obligations is based upon the yields on high quality corporate bonds in the relevant currency and whichhave durations consistent with the nature of the obligations.
The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements in corporate bondyields, but at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation uncertainty.
This rate is also used to calculate the interest cost on obligations and interest income on plan assets.
Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in the assumptions are set out in note 45.
For 2014, the charge against income for post-retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$418 million.
This charge included both pension and post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of interest income of US$475 million after tax and non-controlling interests.
The weighted average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.6 per cent in 2014 and will be 3.3 per cent for 2015.
The average discount rate used was 4.4 per cent in 2014 and will be 3.5 per cent in 2015 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the currencies in which the Group has pension obligations.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the expected impact of post-retirement costs on the Groups net earnings in 2015 would be US$48 million more than in 2014.
The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits, number of employees and exchange rates.
The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2014 net earnings after tax and non-controlling interests that would result from hypothetical changes to post-retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere.
The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on the balance sheet and this is shown in note 45.
US$ million Sensitivity of the Groups 2014 underlying and net earnings to changes in: Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 47 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 43 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 33 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 31 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 9 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 8 Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 18 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 18 xi Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in UK, French, Canadian, US and Australian taxable entities that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these taxable entities and after taking account of specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
xii Contingencies note 31 Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
xiii Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2 Operating segments 2014 2013 2012 a Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 23,281 25,994 24,279 Aluminium 12,123 12,463 12,170 Copper 6,282 5,916 6,661 Energy 4,308 5,454 6,062 Diamonds & Minerals 4,150 4,193 4,056 Other operations 241 1,761 3,898 Reportable segments total 50,385 55,781 57,126 Inter-segment transactions 344 1,182 1,560 Product group total 50,041 54,599 55,566 Items excluded from underlying earnings 24 31 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 2,377 3,404 4,655 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 47,664 51,171 50,942 b Depreciation and amortisation Iron Ore 1,953 1,627 1,485 Aluminium 1,180 1,151 1,287 Copper 1,051 962 794 Energy 548 766 770 Diamonds & Minerals 484 513 421 Other operations 34 67 214 Reportable segments total 5,250 5,086 4,971 Other items 82 106 113 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 472 401 460 Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,860 4,791 4,624 c Underlying earnings Iron Ore 8,107 9,858 9,247 Aluminium 1,248 557 54 Copper 912 821 1,059 Energy 210 33 309 Diamonds & Minerals 401 350 149 Other operations 243 281 582 Reportable segments total 10,215 11,338 10,236 Inter-segment transactions 4 8 Other items 593 730 750 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 156 145 97 Net finance costs 161 242 112 Underlying earnings 9,305 10,217 9,269 d Items excluded from underlying earnings 2,778 6,552 12,297 Net earnings loss attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 6,527 3,665 3,028 Tax charge Iron Ore 3,698 5,290 4,273 Aluminium 303 18 205 Copper 170 236 67 Energy 164 12 8 Diamonds & Minerals 224 177 84 Other operations 132 227 235 Reportable segments total 4,099 5,470 3,858 Other items 193 302 266 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 34 23 26 Net finance costs 396 77 81 3,476 5,068 3,485 d Tax credit excluded from underlying earnings 423 2,642 2,896 Tax charge per income statement 3,053 2,426 589 riotinto.
com 123 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued 2014 2013 2012 Capital expenditure US$m US$m US$m Capital expenditure Iron Ore 4,211 6,814 7,152 Aluminium 2,021 2,226 2,755 Copper 1,958 2,813 4,455 Energy 224 732 1,877 Diamonds & Minerals 508 1,009 1,814 Other operations 56 278 432 Reportable segments total 8,866 13,872 18,485 Other items 416 145 161 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 1,032 1,073 1,071 Capital expenditure per financial information by business units 7,418 12,944 17,575 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 744 57 40 Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 8,162 13,001 17,615 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Finance costs and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Diamonds & Minerals product group chief executive.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 178 of these financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure which the Group considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
a Gross sales revenue Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$2,533 million 2013: US$3,757 million, 2012: US$5,067 million which are not included in consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$156 million 2013: US$353 million, 2012: US$412 million to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
b Depreciation and amortisation Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges and reversals, whichare excluded from underlying earnings.
c Underlying earnings Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
The measure of underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings and net earnings both represent amounts net of tax attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded from net earnings in arriving at underlying earnings each period irrespective of materiality: Net losses gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses.
Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
Rio Tintos share of the underlying earnings of equity accounted units amount to US$626 million in 2014 2013: US$710 million: 2012: US$1,051 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$622 million profit to the Copper group and US$4 million profit to other product groups 2013: US$780 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$70 million loss to other product groups: 2012: US$793 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$258 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts are included in underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
The Copper product groups underlying earnings in 2013 included US$131 million impairment after tax in relation to the groups investment in NorthernDynasty Minerals Ltd following a strategic review of this shareholding by the group.
The Energy product groups underlying earnings in 2012 included US$258 million profit after tax in relation to the divestments of equity interest in Extract Resources and Kalahari Minerals.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS d Reconciliation of net earnings losses to underlying earnings NonPrecontrolling Net Net Net j tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2012 Exclusions from underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 473 335 138 3,428 14,360 e Net losses gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses 563 203 11 349 847 827 Exchange and derivative losses gains: Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances 1,997 164 25 1,858 2,929 425 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 39 14 3 22 259 Gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 15 15 30 196 66 Write-off recognition of deferred tax asset following the MRRT repeal 401 39 362 1,130 Gain on disposal of the Groups St Jamess Square properties 341 15 356 f Simandou IFRS 2 charge 230 114 116 Restructuring costs including global headcount reductions 123 37 4 82 367 77 g Kennecott Utah Copper 283 h Clermont Blair Athol 173 Deferred tax asset write-off 114 134 i Other exclusions 263 41 15 237 303 233 Total excluded from underlying earnings 3,332 423 131 2,778 6,552 12,297 Net earnings loss 9,552 3,053 28 6,527 3,665 3,028 Underlying earnings 12,884 3,476 103 9,305 10,217 9,269 e Pre-tax losses of US$563 million arose mainly from further adjustments in respect of contractual obligations for product sales and delivery which remain with the Group following sale of the Groups interest in the Clermont mine on 29 May 2014, the disposal of the Groups interest in Rio Tinto Mozambique on 7 October 2014 and indemnities provided in respect of prior disposals.
Net gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses during 2013 mainly related to US$590 million from the Groups divestment of its remaining interest in Constellium formerly Alcan Engineering Products, and US$388 million from the disposal of interest in the Northparkes mine.
f A pre-tax charge of US$230 million before non-controlling interests, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, which reflects the discount to an estimate of fair value at which shares are transferrable to the Government of Guinea under the Investment Framework, ratified on 26 May 2014. g On 10 April 2013, Kennecott Utah Coppers, Bingham Canyon mine experienced a slide along a geological fault line of its north-eastern wall.
Charges relating to the slide, which have been excluded from underlying earnings, primarily comprise the write-off of certain deferred stripping assets and damaged equipment.
Adjustments for settlement of insurance claims have been made to the amount excluded from underlying earnings, and will continue as insurance claims are settled.
h Adjustments in relation to Clermont and Blair Athol arose in 2013 following reclassification to disposal groups held for sale, and reflect contractual obligations for product sales and funding of closure activities, which will remain with the Group following completion of the divestments.
i Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate, if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
In 2014, other exclusions include adjustments relating to the five year community support package for Nhulunbuy area and community following the Gove refinery curtailment.
In 2013, other exclusions included adjustments relating to inventory sold by Richards Bay Minerals during the period, which had been recognised at fair value on initial consolidation in 2012. j Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units, after tax, are included in the column Pre-tax.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the UK and Australia.
com 125 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 3 Operating segments additional information continued Gross sales revenue by product Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 23,178 26,235 24,756 Aluminium 11,667 12,059 12,535 Copper 4,815 4,766 4,749 Coal 3,685 4,557 5,060 Industrial Minerals 3,238 3,330 3,460 Diamonds 901 859 754 Gold 1,007 402 614 Other 1,550 2,367 3,669 Total 50,041 54,575 55,597 Share of equity accounted units sales and inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from underlying earnings 2,377 3,404 4,655 Consolidated sales revenue 47,664 51,171 50,942 Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
2014 2013 b Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 38,162 38,100 Canada 17,065 18,567 Mongolia 7,842 8,315 US 5,163 4,739 Africa 5,838 5,486 South America 3,552 3,146 UK 236 1,246 Indonesia 1,116 968 France 491 602 Europe excluding France and the UK 460 524 Other countries 1,417 782 81,342 82,475 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,540 3,555 Derivatives and other financial assets excluding tax recoverable 722 899 c Loans to equity accounted units 228 277 Tax recoverable 70 83 Accounts receivable 800 1,454 Total non-current assets per balance sheet 86,702 88,743 b Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets, and includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$4,640 million 2013: US$3,681 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
c Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$228 million 2013: US$276 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the balance sheet and non-quasi equity loans of US$nil 2013: US$1 million shown within Other financial assets.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 4 Net operating costs 2014 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m US$m Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 11,044 11,164 13,056 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 237 255 310 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,623 4,536 4,314 Employment costs 5 6,659 7,568 8,671 Shipping and other freight costs 3,370 3,513 3,524 Decrease in finished goods and work in progress 1,284 199 100 Royalties 2,516 2,883 2,374 a Amounts charged by equity accounted units 1,554 1,728 2,154 Net foreign exchange losses gains 34 71 2 Other external costs 3,074 4,025 3,027 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 1,138 1,449 886 Research and development 112 231 246 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 738 582 544 Other operating income 929 794 586 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 33,910 36,104 37,534 a Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the equity accounted unit but in 2014, US$463 million 2013: US$529 million: 2012: US$690 million related to purchases of the other investors share of production.
Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 39.
5 Employment costs 2014 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m US$m Total employment costs Wages and salaries 5,878 7,181 8,382 Social security costs 467 421 156 Net post retirement charge 45 590 805 823 Share option charge 44 152 142 240 7,087 8,549 9,601 Less: charged within provisions 428 981 930 Employment costs 4 6,659 7,568 8,671 riotinto.
com 127 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges and reversals Noncontrolling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Aluminium Kitimat 1,092 292 800 950 613 Aluminium Pacific Aluminium 1,224 175 1,049 1,382 Aluminium Other 46 6 40 847 2,751 Aluminium Goodwill 7,468 Copper Molybdenum Autoclave Process 559 212 347 Copper Oyu Tolgoi 4,716 Copper SouthGobi 269  497 3,269 Diamonds 659 Other 252 85 Total impairment charge net of reversals 473 335 138 7,531 16,227 Allocated as: Goodwill note 12 1,149 8,009 Intangible assets note 13 1,287 1,817 Property, plant and equipment note 14 1,034 4,882 4,686 Investment in equity accounted units 589 216 1,526 Other assets 28 3 189 Total impairment charge net of reversals 473 7,531 16,227 Comprising: Impairment charges net of reversals of consolidated balances 1,062 7,315 14,701 Impairment reversals charges of investments in equity accounted units pre-tax 841 230 2,217 Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial information by business unit page 179 221 7,545 16,918 Taxation including related to EAUs 83 1,561 2,536 Non-controlling interests 2,556 22 Total impairment net of reversals in the income statement 138 3,428 14,360 Aluminium Kitimat, Canada During the first half of 2014, further revisions to future capital required to complete the modernisation project at Kitimat in British Columbia, and related impacts on the project, led to a reduction in the recoverable value of the Kitimat cash-generating unit.
Additional capital of US$1.5 billion was approved by the board in August 2014, taking the total approved capital cost of the project to US$4.8 billion.
The recoverable amount for the Kitimat cash-generating unit at 30 June 2014 was determined to be US$2,184 million assessed by reference to a fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
The reduction in the recoverable amount resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$1,092 million to property, plant and equipment.
The recoverable amount is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms were estimated over the useful economic life of the modernised smelter, which is the principal asset of the cash-generating unit, and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2013: 7.3 per cent.
First production from the Kitimat Modernisation Project is expected during the first half of 2015.
The most critical assumption for the FVLCD calculation is the forecast cost to complete the project which is unchanged since the half year.
Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Kitimat is sensitive are: the aluminium sales price aluminium price plus regional and product premiums, discount rates, the Canadian dollar to US dollar exchange rate and operating cost assumptions.
The long-term aluminium price for impairment testing purposes was unchanged at 30 June 2014 in real terms from the prior year 2013: decrease of 6.5 per cent, marginally above the mid-point of the range published for 2018 by market commentators of US$1,993 and US$2,469 per tonne, with an average of US$2,246 per tonne.
No subsequent impairment indicators have been identified in the second half of 2014 in relation to the Kitimat Modernisation Project.
In 2013, the annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units with indefinite-lived intangible assets resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$950 million in the Kitimat cash-generating unit.
The indefinite-lived intangible assets relating to water rights at Kitimat were fully impaired following the allocation of this impairment loss.
Pacific Aluminium, Australia and New Zealand The annual review of asset values at 30 September 2014 of the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit provides evidence that the impairment losses primarily recorded in respect of Tomago, Bell Bay, Gladstone Power Station and Boyne Smelters in 2011 and 2012 have reversed as a result of significant cost improvements and high regional and product premiums.
There has also been a regulatory change in Australia with carbon tax legislation being repealed on 17 July 2014 for a period of five years with effect from 1 July 2014.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS A pre-tax impairment reversal of US$635 million has been recorded against the property, plant and equipment of Tomago, Bell Bay and Gladstone Power Station and a post-tax impairment reversal of US$589 million relating to Boyne Smelters has been recorded against investments in equity accounted units.
The recoverable amount of these assets has been determined on a FVLCD basis, classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, modelled with cash flows expressed in real terms and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.2 per cent.
The recoverable amount of the assets is greater than the amount at which these assets would have been carried, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods and therefore the impairment reversal is based on the latter amount.
The Tiwai Point smelter in New Zealand, also part of the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit, is currently profitable as a result of high regional and product premiums and operational cost improvements: however, operational uncertainties indicate that the impairment losses previously recognised are yet to reverse.
Aluminium Other and 2012 impairments In 2014, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$46 million was recorded in relation to other aluminium businesses.
In 2013, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$847 million was recorded in the Groups Aluminium business relating to the full write-off of property, plant and equipment at the Gove alumina refinery following the decision to curtail operations and at the Shawinigan aluminium smelter following the decision to close the plant.
In 2012 the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at the segmentlevel.
This goodwill was fully written off in 2012 and the remaining loss allocated to specific cash-generating units including Kitimat and Pacific Aluminium.
The 2012 impairment testing of the Groups Aluminium business resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$7,468 million to goodwill, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$229 million to intangible assets, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$3,944 million to property, plant and equipment, a post-tax impairment charge of US$379 million to investments in equity accounted units, and a pre-tax adjustment of US$194 million to other assets and liabilities.
Copper Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US A review of the investment case for the Molybdenum Autoclave Process project in Utah, US has concluded that the project, which has been on care and maintenance since early 2013, will be terminated.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on the anticipated net disposal proceeds.
As a result, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$559 million has been recorded against property, plant and equipment.
Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia The annual review of cash-generating units identified indicators that an impairment loss may have occurred at the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit, primarily as a result of delays in developing the underground mine.
The recoverable amount for Oyu Tolgoi was determined by reference to a FVLCD model and exceeded the US$8.2 billion carrying value of the cash-generating unit at 30 September 2014.
No further impairment indicators were identified subsequent to the annual testing date.
As such, no impairment charge has been recognised in the income statement 2013: pre-tax impairment charge of US$4,716 million.
The recoverable amount of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated until the end of the life of mine plan and discounted using an asset specific post-tax real discount rate of 8.3 per cent 2013: 8.7 per cent.
The assumption subject to the most estimation uncertainty for the FVLCD calculation is the timing of the underground project.
If this is further delayed, it would have an adverse impact upon the recoverable amount at the testing date due to the delay in commencing full underground production, partially offset by delaying project spend.
To illustrate this sensitivity, the recoverable amount would be reduced by US$0.5 billion 2013: US$0.8 billion if the timing of first drawbell ore were delayed by 12 months compared with the forecast timing of related cash flows in Rio Tintos FVLCD model as of 30 September 2014.
The recoverable amount in this illustration would continue to exceed the carrying value of the cash-generating unit.
The year-on-year decrease in sensitivity is primarily theresultofmine plan optimisation which has been undertaken while construction of the underground has been delayed.
Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are: long-term copper prices, discount rates and operating costs.
Other assumptions include the long-term gold price, and Mongolian tugrik and Chinese yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i. SouthGobi, Mongolia The expansion and undeveloped properties in SouthGobi were recognised in accordance with the requirement in IFRS as defined in note 1, to fair value assets on first consolidation and were therefore recorded as an accounting uplift when Rio Tinto obtained control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd on 24 January 2012.
These assets were not amortised and were fully written-off as a result of the 2013 impairment testing.
Energy Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique As described in note 37, the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique was completed during 2014.
In previous years, the annual review of carrying values resulted in impairment losses based on recoverable amounts assessed by reference to FVLCD models, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
In 2013, a post-tax impairment loss of US$216 million 2012: US$1,147 million was allocated to the Benga cash-generating unit, which was included in investments in equity accounted units, and a pre-tax impairment loss of US$259 million 2012: US$1,581 million was allocated to the Zambeze cash-generating unit intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of US$22 million 2012: no impairment charge.
The impairment loss recorded in 2012 also included the full write-off of goodwill of US$541 million which was monitored and tested at the business unit level.
com 129 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 2,852 4,113 5,498 Operating costs 1,804 2,871 3,779 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,048 1,242 1,719 Finance items 49 97 68 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 30 31 47 Profit before taxation 1,029 1,176 1,698 Taxation 404 478 642 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 625 698 1,056 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Additional information relating to the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
8 Finance income and finance costs 2014 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units Rio Tinto share 10 14 14 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 54 68 102 Total finance income 64 82 116 a Interest payable and similar charges 1,119 1,234 1,059 Amounts capitalised 14 470 727 766 Total finance costs 649 507 293 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value gain on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of US$199 million 2013: US$266 million loss: 2012: US$25 million loss and a fair value loss on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$200 million 2013: US$257 million gain: 2012: US$13 million loss.
9 Taxation 2014 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation charge - Current 3,402 4,102 3,887 - Deferred 17 349 1,676 3,298 3,053 2,426 589 2014 2013 2012 Prima facie tax reconciliation Note US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before taxation 9,552 3,505 2,431 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 625 698 1,056 a Deduct add: impairment reversal impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 589 216 1,526 Parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations profit loss before tax 8,338 3,023 1,961 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 21% 2013: 23%: 2012: 24% 1,751 695 471 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 1,038 1,411 838 Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings: Impairment charges net of reversals 112 135 1,683 Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses 85 199 185 Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 231 77 44 b Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 401 1,205 Other exclusions 35 7 157 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 11 12 5 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 5 63 74 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 121 103 121 Research, development and other investment allowances 34 49 57 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 106 84 Unrecognised current year operating losses 73 339 200 c Other items 58 178 43 d Total taxation charge 3,053 2,426 589 a Impairment reversals impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of a tax charge of US$252 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: tax credit of US$14 million: 31 December 2012: tax credit of US$691 million.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS b The remaining Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT starting base deferred tax asset was derecognised on repeal of the tax in Australia effective 30 September 2014. c Other items include various adjustments to provisions for taxation in prior periods.
d This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$404 million 31 December 2013: US$478 million: 31 December 2012: US$642 million.
2014 2013 2012 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 3 17 1 Fair value movements: Cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 2 34 26 Cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 19 50 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 1 26 Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 1 20 1 Currency translation reclassified Tax credit charge on actuarial losses gains on post retirement benefit plans 215 641 83 Other 8 6 8 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss income for the year 206 697 57 a This comprises deferred tax credit of US$205 million 2013: charge of US$697 million: 2012: credit of US$54 million and current tax credit of US$1 million 2013: US$nil: 2012: credit of US$3 million, plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately.
10 Earnings loss per ordinary share 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted average 2014 average 2013 2014 number of Per share 2013 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of a Rio Tinto continuing operations 6,527 1,848.4 353.1 3,665 1,847.3 198.4 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto b continuing operations 6,527 1,858.7 351.2 3,665 1,857.7 197.3 2012 Weighted average 2012 2012 number of Per share Loss shares amount US$m millions cents Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 3,021 1,849.1 163.4 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 7 1,849.1 0.4 a Total basic loss per share profit for the year 3,028 1,849.1 163.8 a The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,413.0 million 2013: 1,411.6 million: 2012: 1,413.4 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 435.4 million 2013: 435.7 million: 2012: 435.8 million.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 10.3 million shares 2013: 10.4 million shares is added to the weighted average number of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 44.
In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, the effects of anti-dilutive potential have not been included when calculating diluted loss per share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
As a result the dilutive loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto is the same as the basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto.
com 131 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 11 Dividends 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,533 1,311 1,295 Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,299 1,213 1,054 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 473 406 380 Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 405 392 309 Dividends paid during the year 3,710 3,322 3,038 Dividends per share: paid during the year 204.5c 178.0c 163.5c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 119.0c 108.5c 94.5c Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2014 2013 2012  pence 65.82p 60.34p 57.33p Rio Tinto plc interim pence 56.90p 54.28p 46.43p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 120.14c 91.67c 84.20c Rio Tinto Limited interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 103.09c 93.00c 68.51c Number of Number of Number of shares shares shares 2014 2013 2012 millions millions millions  1,413.2 1,411.9 1,417.6 Rio Tinto plc interim 1,413.8 1,412.5 1,410.9 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 435.6 435.8 435.8 Rio Tinto Limited interim 435.7 435.5 435.8 The dividends paid in 2014 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2013 final 108.5 cents, 2014 interim 96.0 cents 2013 dividends paid: 2012 final 94.5 cents, 2013 interim 83.5 cents: 2012 dividends paid: 2011 final 91.0 cents, 2012 interim 72.5 cents.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee share trusts which waived the right to dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 207,766 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2013 final dividend and on 90,304 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2014 interim dividend 2013: 150,361 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2012 final dividend and 124,636 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2013 interim dividend, 2012: 248,955 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2011 final dividend and 153,119 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2012interim dividend.
In 2014, 2013 and 2012, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 183,981 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 final dividend and on 24,046 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2014 interim dividend 2013: There were no applicable waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2012 final dividend.
Dividend waivers applied to 222,439 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 interim dividend, 2012: There were no applicable dividend waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2011 final dividend and 2012 interim dividend.
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 119.0 cents per share on 12 February 2015.
This is expected to result in payments of US$2,202 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,683 million, Rio Tinto Limited US$519 million.
The dividends will be paid on 9 April 2015 to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2015.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during 2015.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2014 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2014 final dividend declared, is US$18,290 million.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 12 Goodwill 2014 2013 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 1,349 2,774 Adjustment on currency translation 121 253 Company no longer consolidated 23 a Impairment charges 1,149 At 31 December 1,228 1,349 cost 20,122 22,678 accumulated impairment 18,894 21,329 At 1 January cost 22,678 24,451 accumulated impairment 21,329 21,677 At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Net book value Richards Bay Minerals 591 656 Pilbara 409 445 Other 228 248 1,228 1,349 a During 2013, the goodwill impairment charge of US$1,149 million represented the full impairment of goodwill allocated to Oyu Tolgoi.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
Impairment tests for goodwill Richards Bay Minerals The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
Goodwill arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS, as defined in note 1, to recognise a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base and is retranslated at each period end for changes in the South African rand.
The recognition of Richards Bay Minerals identifiable assets and liabilities in the balance sheet was based on fair values at the acquisition date determined with the assistance of an independent third party valuer.
Richards Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2014 2013: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determinedby estimating cash flows until the end of the life of mine plan including anticipated expansions.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 9.2 per cent 2013: 7.3 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set out below: US$ million 5% decrease in the titanium slag price 174 1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 296 10% strengthening of the South African rand 770 Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
Pilbara The recoverability of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Robe River and monitored at the Pilbara CGU level has been assessed by reference to FVLCDusing discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 7.2 per cent 2013: 7.3 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired.
Other The recoverability of the Other goodwill has been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired by a significant amount.
com 133 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2014 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421 Adjustment on currency translation 86 21 195 55 357 Expenditure during the year 142 307 449 c Amortisation for the year 20 116 101 237 d Disposals, transfers and other movements 686 1 66 15 604 At 31 December 2014 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880 cost 2,770 294 4,341 1,536 8,941 accumulated amortisation and impairment 174 138 1,887 862 3,061 Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880 Adjustment on currency translation 96 7 290 47 426 Expenditure during the year 368 9 159 536 c Amortisation for the year 21 123 111 255 e Impairment charges 379 908 1,287 Disposals, transfers and other movements 92 23 42 27 At 31 December 2013 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421 cost 4,507 334 4,830 1,357 11,028 accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,653 136 1,999 819 5,607 a Exploration and evaluation assets useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment.
The reduction in cost and accumulated amortisation and impairment from 2013 to 2014 mainly relates to the disposal of the fully impaired assets of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM see note 37.
The impairment charge in 2013 of US$379 million mainly related to exploration and evaluation assets within RTCM and SouthGobi Resources Limited see note 6. b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in Contract based intangible assets.
c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years d Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation include US$700 million previously classified as non-current receivables pending ratification of the Simandou project Investment Framework.
The incorporation of the Investment Framework into Guinean law was completed following ratification by the Guinean National Assembly, Presidential promulgation and its publication in August 2014.
The project partners are continuing to work towards the completion of a bankable feasibility study, completion of which has been delayed due to the Ebola outbreak, and are aiming to establish a funding consortium to build the infrastructure necessary to develop the Simandou project.
e The US$908 million 2013 impairment charge to the contract based intangible asset class related to the full write-off of the water right indefinite-lived intangible assets at the Kitimat cash-generating unit see note 6.
The remaining carrying value of the water rights US$1,981 million as at 31 December 2014 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit.
The Quebec smelters cash-generating unit was tested for impairment and it was determined that its recoverable amount on a FVLCD basis exceeds the carrying amount by US$3,311 million.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.2 per cent 2013: 7.3 per cent.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for the Quebec smelters is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set out below: US$ million 0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 659 5% decrease in aluminium and alumina prices 1,220 5% strengthening of the Canadian dollar 396 5% increase in operating costs 914 Each of the sensitivities has been determined by assuming that the relevant key assumption moves in isolation, except where modifying the aluminium price directly affects the price assumption for certain input costs, and further assumes that there is no mitigating action by management.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each of these sensitivities in isolation.
In 2012 and previous years, the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at the segment level.
The remaining goodwill was fully impaired in 2012.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure in the year net of proceeds of US$11 million 2013: US$27 million: 2012: US$217 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 872 1,317 2,608 Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$nil 2013: US$159 million: 2012: US$nil and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 53 160 207 Amount capitalised during the year 142 368 924 Netchargefortheyear 783 1,109 1,477 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 747 948 1,971 Loss profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 36 161 494 Netchargefortheyear 783 1,109 1,477 At 31 December 2014, a total of US$2.9 billion had been capitalised related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed.
This comprised evaluation costs of US$2.6 billion included above and US$0.3 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment 31 December 2013: a total of US$2.3 billion had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$1.9 billion included above and US$0.4 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment.
14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Capital properties and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2014 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827 Adjustment on currency translation 687 564 2,918 545 4,714 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 525 525 c Interest capitalised note 8 2 468 470 Additions 554 302 1,369 5,571 7,796 a d Depreciation for the year 649 432 3,542 4,623 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 139 10 277 1,440 1,034 Disposals 162 61 14 237 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 31 31 f Transfers and other movements 1,151 541 6,248 8,226 286 At 31 December 2014 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693 cost 23,045 10,845 69,835 11,544 115,269 accumulated depreciation and impairment 11,132 3,760 30,025 1,659 46,576 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 12 1 13 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,261 173 2,823 259 4,516 riotinto.
com 135 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Mining Land Capital properties and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 16,902 7,187 31,601 21,295 76,985 Adjustment on currency translation 1,303 629 3,670 1,612 7,214 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 391 391 c Interest capitalised note 8 2 725 727 Additions 397 214 1,444 9,879 11,934 a d Depreciation for the year 816 439 3,281 4,536 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 3,976 67 676 163 4,882 Disposals 1 5 89 27 122 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 401 62 274 334 1,071 f Transfers and other movements 313 1,211 13,409 15,692 1,385 At 31 December 2013 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827 cost 21,521 11,328 68,429 14,487 115,765 accumulated depreciation and impairment 10,641 3,918 29,963 416 44,938 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 14 9 23 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,435 175 2,872 97 4,579 a At 31 December 2014, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1.8 billion, with US$1.4 billion within Property, plant and equipment and a further US$0.4 billion within Investments in equity accounted units 2013 total of US$1.3 billion with US$0.9 billion in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$0.4 billion within Investments in equity accounted units.
During the period capitalisation of US$0.7 billion was partly offset by depreciation of US$0.2 billion.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$84 million 2013: US$70 million: 2012: US$105 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
b At 31 December 2014, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,899 million 2013: US$6,847 million : long leasehold US$186 million 2013: US$562 million : and no short leasehold 2013: US$1 million.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 4.0 per cent 2013: 4.0 per cent.
d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Land and buildings Land: Not depreciated Buildings:5to50years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: 3 to 50 years Power assets: 25 to 50 years Capital work in progress: Not depreciated e During 2014 and 2013 impairment charges primarily related to the aluminium and copper business.
In 2014, impairment charges, of US$1,669 million were offset by US$635 million of impairment reversals.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories, including transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$587 million 2013: US$865 million of loans, which are included in note 22.
15 Investments in equity accounted units 2014 2013 Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 6,605 5,860 Current assets 901 1,197 7,506 7,057 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 681 791 Non-current liabilities 1,957 2,309 2,638 3,100 a b Rio Tintos share of net assets 4,868 3,957 a Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS b The impact of impairment charges and impairment reversals on the Groups investments in equity accounted units are summarised in note 6. c At 31 December 2014 and 2013 the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
d At 31 December 2014, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$922 million 2013: US$991 million.
16 Inventories 2014 2013 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 726 1,116 Consumable stores 1,411 1,596 Work in progress 1,490 1,721 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,120 1,815 4,747 6,248 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 4,350 5,737 Expected to be used after more than one year 397 511 4,747 6,248 Inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$94 million 2013: US$201 million: 2012: US$208 million were recognised during the year.
17 Deferred taxation 2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 January 585 1,669 Adjustment on currency translation 36 201 Credited to the income statement note 9 349 1,676 a Credited charged to statement of comprehensive income 205 697 Newly consolidated operations note 37 1 Disposals 10 b Other movements 29 95 At 31 December 34 585 Comprising: c d deferred tax liabilities 3,574 4,140 c e f g deferred tax assets 3,540 3,555 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total Total 2014 2013 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Capital allowances 6,018 6,391 d Unremitted earnings 659 637 Capitalised interest 368 348 Unrealised exchange gains 255 91 Other temporary differences 248 761 7,548 8,228 Deferred tax assets arising from: e Tax losses 2,276 2,496 Provisions 2,096 2,084 f Capital allowances 877 1,289 Post retirement benefits 1,165 1,036 Unrealised exchange losses 658 184 Other temporary differences 442 554 7,514 7,643 riotinto.
com 137 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued Total Total 2014 2013 US$m US$m Credited charged to the income statement Unrealised exchange losses 365 566 Tax losses 72 563 Provisions 122 434 Capital allowances 272 44 Tax on unremitted earnings 2 3 Post retirement benefits 34 68 Other temporary differences 242 134 349 1,676 a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes, and on post retirement healthcare plans.
b Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
c The deferred tax liability of US$3,574 million 2013: US$4,140 million includes US$3,555 million 2013: US$4,139 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,540 million 2013: US$3,555 million includes US$3,405 million 2013: US$3,426 million receivable in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12. d Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$202 million 2013: US$183 million would be payable.
e There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is two years, for the recovery of US$1,347 million 2013: US$1,384 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
f As at 31 December 2013, deferred tax assets arising from capital allowances included amounts arising following the introduction of the MRRT on 1 July 2012.
At 31 December 2014, no deferred tax is recognised in respect of MRRT following the repeal of MRRT during 2014.
Refer to note 9. g Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$6,885 million at 31 December 2014 2013: US$ 17,755 million.
Of this total, US$3,540 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2013: US$3,555 million, leaving US$3,345 million 2013: US$14,200 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
The amount recognised takes account of legislation which restricts the recovery of losses.
ii The recognised and unrecognised amounts for 2013 include temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of MRRT.
At 31 December 2014 the recognised and unrecognised amounts for MRRT are US$nil following the repeal of MRRT.
iii US$688 million 2013: US$652 million of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$353 million of the unrecognised assets 2013: US$343 million.
18 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Trade receivables 5 2,483 2,488 5 2,987 2,992 b Other receivables 435 884 1,319 1,150 1,212 2,362 c Prepayment of tolling charges to equity accounted units 387 387 479 479 Pension surpluses note 45 353 353 290 290 Amounts due from equity accounted units 36 36 136 136 Other prepayments 124 220 344 216 332 548 1,304 3,623 4,927 2,140 4,667 6,807 a At 31 December 2014, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$39 million 2013: US$12 million.
Amounts of US$35 million 2013: US$10 million were impaired: the majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS b As at 31 December 2013 non-current other receivables included a capitalised prepayment on an intangible asset of the Simandou iron ore project of US$700m.
This was transferred to intangible assets see note 13 in 2014 on the ratification of the settlement agreement.
c Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2014, trade receivables of US$82 million 2013: US$178 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 34 57 between 30 and 60 days overdue 11 71 between 60 and 90 days overdue 30 47 more than 90 days overdue 7 3 82 178 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale At 31 December 2014 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Groups 71.2 per cent interest in the Blair Athol coal project Blair Athol and its 28.4 per cent indirect interest in SouthGobi Resources Limited, which was acquired as part of the gain of control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in 2012.
At 31 December 2013 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Groups 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont Joint Venture Clermont, its 71.2percent interest in Blair Athol, and Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was acquired with Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique in 2011.
At 31 December 2014 ZAC was no longer held for sale.
On 25 October 2013, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement to sell its interest in Clermont to GS Coal Pty Ltd, a company jointly owned by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation, for US$1,015 million.
The sale was completed on 29 May 2014.
20 Other financial assets including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 393 43 436 403 63 466 Equity shares and quoted funds 103 96 199 157 122 279 Other investments, including loans 226 61 287 339 167 506 Loans to equity accounted units 7171 19394 Tax recoverable 70 146 216 83 265 348 792 417 1,209 983 710 1,693 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,146 1,548 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 11,277 8,668 Balance per Group balance sheet 12,423 10,216 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 23 7 Balance per Group cash flow statement 12,400 10,209 Cash and cash equivalents of US$631 million 2013: US$570 million are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this balance US$455 million 2013: US$402 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$404 million 2013: US$652 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned entities and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place.
Of this balance US$24 million 2013: US$119 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
com 139 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m USD Commercial Paper 156 156 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014 1,907 1,907 a Alcan Inc.
b Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2013: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme EDIP against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.3 billion equivalent at 31 December 2014 2013: US$2.6 billion.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.4 billion 2013: US$ 2.5 billion in aggregate.
c The Groups borrowings of US$25.1 billion 2013: US$28.5 billion include some US$3.5 billion 2013: US$3.3 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, of which US$0.6 billion 2013: US$0.7 billion are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2014.
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 67 14 81 31 10 41 Other financial liabilities 57 6 63 50 50 Total other financial liabilities 124 20 144 81 10 91 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 22,535 2,684 25,219 24,625 3,926 28,551 Swap arrangements At 31 December 2014, US$3.7 billion 2013: US$4.2 billion US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollar rates and US$1.5 billion 2013: US$1.6 billion US dollar notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS During the year fair value hedge accounting has been applied to items marked a in the above table except for: US$750 million 2013: US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$250 million 2013: US$1,000 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 3.5% due 2022, US$250 million 2013: US$1,000 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.875% due 2022, US$75 million 2013: US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028, US$250 million 2013: US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014 and US$200 million 2013: US$200 million of the Alcan Inc.
These portions are held at amortised cost.
The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.8 billion 2013: US$0.8billion US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully swapped to fixed US dollar rates.
Cash flow hedging was applied to the annual interest coupons and principal of this bond.
The hedge was fully effective in 2014 and 2013 financial years.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2014 was US$200 million 2013: US$192 million asset and US$54 million 2013: US$14 million liability, respectively.
These are included in Other financial assets and Other financial liabilities in the balance sheet.
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
23 Capitalised finance leases 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 55 48 Effect of discounting 1 2 14 54 46 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within 1 year 5 7 Between 1 and 3 years 29 13 Between 3 and 5 years 6 11 More than 5 years 14 15 14 54 46 24 Consolidated net debt 2014 2013 US$m US$m a Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 18,055 19,192 Adjustment on currency translation 1,039 2,051 b Exchange losses charged to the income statement 1,070 2,120 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 5,357 1,076 Other movements 234 130 Closing balance 12,495 18,055 Total borrowings in balance sheet note 22 25,075 28,460 Derivatives related to net debt included in Other financial assets liabilities note 30 146 173 c Equity accounted unit funded balances excluded from net debt 11 16 Adjusted total borrowings 24,918 28,271 Cash and cash equivalents note 21 12,423 10,216 Consolidated net debt 12,495 18,055 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from underlying earnings Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt 1,056 2,098 416 Exchange losses gains on intragroup balances 940 1,574 54 Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 1 4 Exchange gains on settlement of dividend 18 Charged credited to income statement 1,995 3,672 492 a Consolidated net debt is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements between equity accounted units and partially owned subsidiaries equity accounted unit funded balances.
This adjustment is required in order to avoid showing borrowings twice in the net debt disclosure, where funding has been provided to an equity accounted unit by the Group and subsequently on lent by the equity accounted unit to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
b Exchange losses taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from underlying earnings.
c Equity accounted unit funded balances are defined as amounts owed by partially owned subsidiaries to equity accounted units, where such funding was provided to the equity accounted unit by the Group.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30. riotinto.
com 141 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 25 Trade and other payables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 5 2,592 2,597 2 3,095 3,097  248 2,123 2,371 146 2,481 2,627 a Other payables 359 1,201 1,560 164 1,112 1,276 Employee entitlements 905 905 861 861 Royalties and mining taxes 2 526 528 2 682 684 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 147 78 225 135 155 290 Government grants deferred 110 12 122 127 14 141 871 7,437 8,308 576 8,400 8,976 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$29 million 2013: US$54 million relating to acquired assets.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non-interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions including post retirement benefits Pensions Close down and post Other and retirement employee restoration Total Total a b c d e healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981 Adjustment on currency translation 223 47 584 109 963 1,081 Adjustments to mining properties note 14 changes in estimate 525 525 391 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing provisions 236 132 125 430 923 1,171 new provisions 87 5 202 294 455 unused amounts reversed 2 31 46 95 170 169 exchange gains losses on provisions 42 49 91 8 amortisation of discount 2 356 26 384 377 Utilised in year 296 339 368 266 1,269 1,506 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 776 776 2,204 Newly consolidated operations note 37 1 10 11 18 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 23 23 260 Transfers to assets held for sale 6 1 20 4 23 104 Transfers and other movements 2 146 3 64 81 20 At 31 December 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081 Balance sheet analysis: Current 117 430 355 397 1,299 1,738 Non-current 3,969 169 8,275 890 13,303 12,343 Total 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$354 million 2013: US$314 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$113 million 2013: US$193 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c The Groups policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k and in paragraph v under Critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 117 and 120.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of around 18 years 2013: 21 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$8,630 million 2013: US$8,582 million for close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations are based on risk adjusted cash flows.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at a real risk free rate of 2 per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
d Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$341 million 2013: US$327 million expected to take place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$798 million 2013: US$909 million expected to take place later than five years after the balance sheet date.
e Close-down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2014 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$108 million 2013: US$142 million relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2014 2013 2012 Number Number Number 2014 2013 2012 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 1,425.377 1,425.376 1,453.400 230 230 234 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.001 0.001 b Ordinary shares purchased but uncancelled on 1 January 1.800 b Own shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 4 At 31 December 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376 230 230 230 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,412.695 1,411.257 1,436.542 a Shares reissued from treasury 1.451 1.437 0.939 b Shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.001 0.001 At 31 December 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257 Shares repurchased and held in treasury 11.231 12.682 14.119 Shares held by public 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257 Total share capital 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376 Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only d DLC Dividend Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1only 1only 1only a 971 Ordinary shares were issued in 2014 under the Global Employee Share Plan.
1,450,659 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans, with exercise prices between 10.979p and 36.275p per share 2013: 951 ordinary shares were issued, and 1,436,542 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 10.43p and 35.76p per share: 2012: no new ordinary shares issued and 939,423 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 10.43p and 39.46p per share.
b The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2014 annual general meeting.
No shares were bought back and held in treasury in 2013 and 2014.
From January to March 2012, 26,223,910 shares were bought back and cancelled and 1,800,000 shares purchased and awaiting cancellation at 31 December 2011 were cancelled.
c The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the Global Employee Share Plan was US$0.05 million 2013 restated: US$0.04 million: 2012 restated: US$nil.
The  was credited to the share premium account.
The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$22 million 2013 restated: US$32 million: 2012: US$39 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans in 2014, 2013 and 2012. d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2014, US$49.5 million of shares and ADRs 2013: US$42 million of shares and ADRs: 2012: US$41 million of shares were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2014, 794,330 shares and 25,502 ADRs were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44 on share based payments.
com 143 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 28 Share Capital Rio Tinto Limited 2014 2013 2012 Number Number Number 2014 2013 2012 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,911 5,715 5,582 Adjustment on currency translation 376 804 133 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,535 4,911 5,715 a Special Voting Share 1only 1only 1only a DLC Dividend Share 1only 1only 1only a Total share capital 435.76 435.76 435.76 a The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2014 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 28 28 24 Own shares purchased and cancelled 4 At 31 December 28 28 28 b Hedging reserves At 1 January 3 68 44 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses gains 48 149 60 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses gains transferred to the income statement 55 69 47 Tax on the above 2 9 11 At 31 December 12 3 68 c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 117 179 193 Losses on available for sale securities 19 67 25 Losses gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 6 146 355 Tax on the above 17 8 At 31 December 130 117 179 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,766 11,778 11,765 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 129 77 62 Employee share options: value of services 69 64 78 Deferred tax on share options 2 1 3 At 31 December 11,704 11,766 11,778 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 1,191 3,309 2,807 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 1,690 2,138 664 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 43 44 158 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 53 81 3 Tax on the above 3 17 1 At 31 December 492 1,191 3,309 Total other reserves per balance sheet 11,122 12,871 14,868 144 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m f Retained earnings At 1 January 23,605 21,496 27,430 Parent and subsidiaries profit loss for the year 5,243 2,796 3,859 Equity accounted units profit after tax for the year 1,284 869 831 g Actuarial losses gains 720 2,211 311 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 204 631 72 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 6,011 5,245 3,267 Share buy-back scheme 764 Dividends paid 3,710 3,322 3,038 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 36 102 1,128 Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements 28 11 38 Employee share options: value of services and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 196 73 45 At 31 December 26,110 23,605 21,496 a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006 previously section 170 of the Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
Balances reflect the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p iii.
c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p i d. d Other reserves include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
Other reserves also include US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985. e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
f Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of joint operations.
g In 2014, there were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units 2013: US$nil: 2012: US$nil.
com 145 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments CFairvalues A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2014 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 12,423 a Trade and other receivables 3,727 3,715 12 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 199 199 Other investments, including loans 20 287 118 164 5 b Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 17 17 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: b not designated as hedges 20 219 219 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 200 200 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 299 299 Total financial assets 17,371 16,555 199 612 5 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 6,155 24 6,131 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 2,664 2,664 Medium and long term borrowings 22 22,411 22,411 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 54 54 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as b hedges 22 27 27 Other financial liabilities 22 63 63 Total financial liabilities 31,374 105 31,269 146 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,216 10,216 a Trade and other receivables 5,412 5,412 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 279 279 Other investments, including loans 20 506 179 322 5 b Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges 20 21 21 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: b not designated as hedges 20 253 253 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 192 192 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 370 370 Total financial assets 17,249 16,177 279 788 5 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 6,899 6,899 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 3,916 3,916 Medium and long term borrowings 22 24,544 24,544 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 19 19 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as b hedges 22 22 22 Other financial liabilities 22 50 50 Total financial liabilities 35,450 41 35,409 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to equity accounted units and other prepayments and specific items within other receivables and will therefore not agreetonote18.
b These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22. c Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore notagreetonote25.
A b Financial risk management Funding and exposure management The Groups policies on financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long-term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management.
The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides a further natural hedge in the long term.
Production of minerals, aluminium and alumina is an important contributor to the gross domestic products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high.
In addition, US dollar floating interest rates have historically also tended to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence the Groups interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates.
However, in certain circumstances the Group may decide to maintain a higher proportion of borrowings at fixed rates.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operations Treasury operates as a service to the businesses of the Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transactions permitted are laid down by the board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior management is advised of corporate cash and debt positions, as well as commodity, currency and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
Treasury policy Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in equity accounted units.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
Bank counterparty exposures are managed within allocated credit limits.
Investment, funding and cash management activities are managed and co-ordinated by Treasury.
i Foreign exchange risk Management policy The Groups shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of riotinto.
com 147 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Rio Tintos underlying earnings.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internallyand externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the use of derivatives.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on all intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below summarises, by currency, the net debt, after taking into account relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts: Cash and Derivatives EAU funded Net funds Net funds cash Total borrowings related to net balances excluded debt debt equivalents in note 22 debt from net debt 2014 2013 Net funds debt by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 11,605 23,895 146 12,144 17,359 Australian dollar 364 500 11 125 376 Euro 18 145 127 218 South African rand 239 324 85 201 Canadian dollar 23 192 169 115 Sterling 4 4 95 Other 170 19 151 119 Total 12,423 25,075 146 11 12,495 18,055 Hedging strategy Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by the board.
A monthly treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the impact of derivatives.
Refer to section B for the details of currency forward, cross currency interest rate and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2014.
Sensitivities The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, underlying earnings and equity, assumingthateach exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2014, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2015, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2014 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect impacting Net exchange on net underlying impact rate earnings earnings on equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 82 855 27 5 Canadian dollar 86 1,537 22 1 Euro 122 48 16 New Zealand dollar 78 28 148 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS At 31 December 2013 restated Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect impacting Net exchange on net underlying impact rate earnings earnings on equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 89 1,450 19 20 Canadian dollar 94 1,603 16 Euro 138 330 24 6 New Zealand dollar 82 51 Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run for one of the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an appropriate representation.
ii Interest rate risk Management policy Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based on a historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
Hedging strategy As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The market value of such instruments moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as an alternative source of funding.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to monetise in-the-money instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage counterparty credit risk.
During 2014 and 2013, no interest rate swaps were closed out in this manner.
At the end of 2014, US$17.6 billion 2013: US$20.4 billion of the Groups adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 71 per cent fixed to 29 per cent floating 2013: 72 per cent fixed to 28 per cent floating.
On a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 139 per cent fixed liability to 39 per cent floating asset 2013: 111 per cent fixed liability to 11 per cent floating asset.
The weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 December 2014 was 3.7 per cent 2013: 3.8 per cent and the weighted average maturity was approximately 8 years 2013: 8 years.
The weighted average maturity and weighted average effective interest rate are based on current interest rates and the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2014 and 2013 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group and the impact of borrowings held at fixed rates.
See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2014.
Sensitivities Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2014, the effect on net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an increase of US$20 million 2013: increase of US$9 million reflecting the high level of cash at the period end.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve.
These derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollar rates.
With all factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2014, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by US$112 million charge 2013: US$106 million charge for sterling and US$108 million credit 2013: US$101 million credit for US dollar.
A 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2015, and therefore this information should be used with care.
iii Commodity price risk Management policy The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the boardandtorigid internal controls.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for those products such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as the LME, and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
com 149 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
At the end of 2014, the Group had 331 million pounds of copper sales 2013: 254 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 288 cents per pound 2013: US 333 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2015.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales, all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by US$51 million 2013: US$49 million.
Hedging strategy Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2014 are set out in section B. Sensitivities The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2014.
A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings by US$97 million 2013: US$164 million, and a ten per cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$84 million 2013: US$93 million.
A ten per cent change in prices would impact equity, before tax, by US$4 million 2013: US$8 million.
The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell non-financial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
iv Credit risk Treasury management policy Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
Credit risks related to receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had approximately 105 customers 2013: 120 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances accounted for approximately 77 per cent 2013: 93 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 22 customers 2013: 46 customers with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 43 per cent 2013: just over 65 per cent of total amounts receivable.
Details of trade and other receivables pastduebutnot impaired are provided in note 18.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets refer to table of financial assets and liabilities reported above.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US Government treasuries and funds or money market funds and balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty mainly based upon specific assessment criteria.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the board at least annually.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 10,216 Trade and other receivables 3,727 5,412 Investments 20 287 506 Derivative assets 20 436 466 Total 16,873 16,600 v Liquidity and capital risk management Management policy The Groups overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for shareholders.
Inpractice, this involves regular reviews by the board and senior management.
These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, economic and business conditions and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and the focus on the progressive dividend policy, and other forms of shareholder return whilst also striving to maintain the Groups Acredit rating.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group withahighdegreeof financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
To maintain an Acredit rating, the Group considers various financial metrics including the overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The Groups total capital, which is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt, amounted to US$67.1 billion at 31 December 2014 2013: US$71.6 billion.
2014 2013 Total capital US$m US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group balance sheet 46,285 45,886 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group balance sheet 8,309 7,616 Netdebt note24 12,495 18,055 Total capital 67,089 71,557 Net debt is a measure used by management and the board of directors to manage the Groups capital structure and liquidity risks and therefore is linked tothe Groups financial and operational excellence strategic driver.
It is also used to manage the Groups interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and cash.
Net debt is disclosed and defined in note 24.
Net debt decreased from US$18.1 billion at 31 December 2013 to US$12.5 billion at 31 December 2014 as operating cash inflows, working capital improvements and divestment proceeds were partly offset by outflows relating to capital expenditure and theincreasein the dividend.
At 31 December 2014 net debt to total capital was 19 per cent 2013: 25 per cent and interest cover was 13 times 2013: 13 times.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
2014 2013 Standard & Poors S&P Long term rating AAShort term rating A-2 A-2 a Outlook Stable Negative Moodys Long term rating A3 A3 Short term rating P-2 P-2 Outlook Stable Stable a On 27 February 2014, S&P revised its Rio Tinto outlook to stable.
The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper and credit facilities.
The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2014 under the various finance programmes listed.
In June 2013, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA Plc bonds: US$1,000 million 1.375% bond due 2016, US$1,250 million 2.250% bond due 2018, US$250 million LIBOR plus 0.55% bond due 2015 and US$500 million LIBOR plus 0.840% bond due 2016.
Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered into new facility agreements for the aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion on 15 November 2013 as borrowers with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The facilities comprise a US$1,875 million three-year multi-currency revolving credit facility and a US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility.
Both facilities have been extended for one year on the first anniversary and can be extended for a further year on the second anniversary of the date of the facility agreements by mutual agreement of the parties to the agreement.
The funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for the general corporate purposes of the Group.
The new facilities replaced the US$6 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility dated 12 November 2010 and the US$2 billion bilateral bank facility agreements entered in the last quarter of 2012 which were closed out on 15 November 2013.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro, Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans, respectively plus a margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of drawdown.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
At 31 December 2014, the facilities were undrawn.
During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bilateral bank facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate.
The facilities were denominated in US dollars and had a term of one year that was extendable, at the Groups option, by a further 364 days.
Any borrowings under either facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facilities were not subject to financial covenants.
The facilities were undrawn and closed out on 15 November 2013.
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion multi-currency committed revolving credit facility maturing in November 2015 with its relationship banks.
Any borrowings under this facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility was not subject to any financial covenants.
The overall agreement also enabled same day access to a US$ swing-line facility.
The funds available under the facility agreement could have been used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
The facility was undrawn and closed out on 15 November 2013.
Further details of the Groups credit facilities are set out in note 22. riotinto.
com 151 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued A c Financial liability analysis The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date tothe contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2014 Within 1 Between Between Between Between year or on 1and2 2and3 3and4 4and5 After demand years years years years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 5,640 515 6,155 Borrowings before swaps 2,664 2,868 1,973 3,139 1,524 12,535 24,703 a Expected future interest payments 927 883 838 816 608 5,492 9,564 Other financial liabilities 49 67 3 1 120 b Derivative financial liabilities a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 36 36 36 36 36 1,614 1,794 gross outflows 28 28 28 28 28 1,705 1,845 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 11 8 1 20 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: grossinflows 423 423 gross outflows 423 423 Total 9,283 4,333 2,806 3,949 2,124 18,118 40,613 At 31 December 2013 Within 1 Between Between Between Between year or on 1and2 2and3 3and4 4and5 After demand years years years years 5years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 6,585 314 6,899 Borrowings before swaps 4,011 1,926 2,844 1,984 3,022 14,684 28,471 a Expected future interest payments 1,007 928 889 857 804 6,164 10,649 Other financial liabilities 39 67 18 1 1 126 b Derivative financial liabilities a b  5 5 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 516 20 20 20 20 797 1,393 gross outflows 510 12 12 12 12 720 1,278 Total 11,636 3,227 3,743 2,833 3,819 20,777 46,035 a Interest payments have been projected using interest rates at the end of the applicable financial year.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
c The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$3.3 billion 2013: US$3.2 billion.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS B Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2014, are summarised below: Total fair value 2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 17 21 b Interest rate swaps 189 138 c Cross currency interest rate swaps 11 54 54 14 Total derivatives designated as hedges 217 54 213 14 Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts and swaps 5 4 1 d Aluminium forward contracts 13 20 6 19 a Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 15 85 2 a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 182 128 Other embedded derivatives 9 30 Other commodity contracts 2 Currency options embedded in borrowing contracts 5 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 219 27 253 27 Total derivative instruments 436 81 466 41 Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 43 14 63 10 Between 1 and 5 years 102 13 109 11 More than 5 years 291 54 294 20 Total 436 81 466 41 Total net derivative instruments 355 425 2014 2013 Reconciliation to balance sheet US$m US$m non-current assets note 20 393 403 current assets note 20 43 63 current liabilities note 22 14 10 non-current liabilities note 22 67 31 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 355 425 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
b The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 22. c The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22. d The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash.
In 2014, $15 million ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement 2013: nil.
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash are not designated as hedges as they largely offset.
C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Short term borrowings note 22 2,664 2,711 3,916 3,924 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 22,411 23,657 24,544 25,746 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$23.2 billion 2013: US$25.2 billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$24.5 billion 2013: US$26.2 billion and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
com 153 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued C a Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2014: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 199 56 85 12 46 d Other investments, including loans note 20 287 108 56 123 e Trade receivables 2,488 12 2,476 2,974 176 85 68 2,645 f Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 17 17 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 192 2 3 197 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 146 146 3,329 174 228 282 2,645 The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2013: Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 279 139 79 15 46 d Other investments, including loans note 20 506 106 1 215 184 785 245 80 230 230 f Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 21 21 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 231 2 19 210 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 173 173 1,210 247 272 461 230 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d Other investments, including loans, comprise: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds and royalty amounts receivable.
The royalty receivables are valued based on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
e Trade receivables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
Not included within the balance above are provisionally priced trade payables of US$24 million, wherein the fair value of the expected final price has fallen below the initial consideration received.
f Level 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2015 and 2030 2013: 2014 and 2040.
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$196 million at 31 December 2014 2013: US$196 million are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative extends beyond the forward curve for alumnium.
Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract.
The other contracts with a fair value of US$18 million at 31 December 2014 2013: US$35 million are categorised as level three as the market premium assumptions used represent unobservable inputs.
g Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates.
A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
h There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2014 or the year ended 31 December 2013.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS C b Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Level 3 financial assets Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities and financial liabilities Opening balance 461 189 Currency translation adjustments 17 8 Total realised losses or gains included in: Consolidated sales revenue 20 Net operating costs 8 150 Total unrealised gains or losses included in: Consolidated sales revenue 2 Net operating costs 18 127 Total unrealised losses or gains transferred into other comprehensive income 5 21 Additions 8 Disposals maturity of financial instruments 175 Closing balance 282 461 Total losses gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 11 130 Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives Forward contracts and options whose carrying value are valued using unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted cashflow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant of these assumptions relate to long term pricing wherein internal pricing assumptions are used after the ten year LME curve.
A ten per cent increase in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$39 million 31 December 2013: US$165 million decrease in carrying value.
A ten per cent decrease in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$71 million 31 December 2013: US$94 million increase in carrying value.
31 Contingencies and commitments 2014 2013 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 1,838 5,098 Between 1 and 3 years 96 364 Between 3 and 5 years 23 6 After 5 years 30 31 Total 1,987 5,499 Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 782 831 Between 1 and 3 years 331 789 Between 3 and 5 years 127 After 5 years Total 1,113 1,747 Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to joint ventures For Minera Escondida Limitada and Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. the Group, along with the other joint venturers, has made various commitments to provide shareholder funding as required, subject to approved thresholds.
In particular, Minera Escondida Limitada holds a shareholder line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share which is currently undrawn.
This line of credit was also available in 2013.
The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion which may be different to the Groups ownership interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company LLC, an aluminium smelter in which the Group is a joint venturer.
The Group subsequently sells the purchased products to third parties.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Within 1 year 429 439 Between 1 and 3 years 690 667 Between 3 and 5 years 460 540 After 5 years 766 832 Total 2,345 2,478 riotinto.
com 155 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 31 Contingencies and commitments continued Purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,912 3,178 Between 1 and 2 years 2,434 2,434 Between 2 and 3 years 2,026 2,202 Between 3 and 4 years 1,660 1,865 Between 4 and 5 years 1,479 1,743 After 5 years 19,572 14,359 Total 30,083 25,781 Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased: fixed, minimum or variable price provisions: and the approximate timing of the transactions.
Purchase obligations between subsidiaries and joint arrangements are included to the extent that they relate to other venturers.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations a b Indemnities and other performance guarantees 239 489 a Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual arrangements for example undertakings related to supplier agreements not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the  is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
Guarantees by parent companies Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by wholly ownedfinance subsidiaries: US$18.5 billion 31 December 2013: US$20.5 billion Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited and Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds with maturitydatesupto 2042: US$nil 31 December 2013: US$157 million Rio Tinto America Inc Commercial Paper: and US$2.3 billion 31 December 2013: US$2.5 billion on the European Debt Issuance Programme.
In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion 31 December 2013: US$7.5 billion : the facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Contingent assets The Group has various insurance claims outstanding with reinsurers including claims relating to the Manefay slide at Kennecott Utah Copper in April 2013.
An interim progress payment was received on this claim in 2013.
Further receipts are considered probable but the amount cannot currently be reliably estimated.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest under contractual agreements.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for  of during the year.
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 33 Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2014 Company and country of Class of Proportion of Group Non-controlling incorporation operation Principal activities shares held class held % interest % interest % Australia Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61 Limited Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Bauxite mining: alumina production: Ordinary 100 100 Limited primary aluminium smelting c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining Class A 40 60 40 } Class B 76.36 c North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 Brazil d Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production and bauxite Quota 100 100 mining Canada Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Uranium projects Common shares 100 100 Corporation e Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 41.28 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high Common shares 100 100 purity iron and steel Class B preference shares 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: Common shares 100 100 aluminium smelting Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Diamond mining and processing Class A, B, C 100 100 f Canada Holding Inc. Class P1 preferred 100 100 Guinea g Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 Madagascar h QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 15 Investment certificates n a 5 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd Copper and gold mining Common Shares 50.79 50.79 49.21 including Oyu Tolgoi LLC and i SouthGobi Resources Ltd Namibia j Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.16 68.58 31.42 } C N10c 70.59 South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Titanium dioxide high purity iron B Ordinary 100 k Proprietary Limited production B preference 100 74 26 } Parent Preference shares 100 Richards Bay Mining Ilmenite, rutile and zircon B Ordinary 100 k Proprietary Limited mining B Preference 100 74 26 } Parent Preference Shares 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation Copper and gold mining, smelting and Common US$0.01 100 100 including Kennecott Utah Copper, refining, land development and Kennecott Land and Kennecott exploration activities Exploration U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of Common US$0.10 100 100 borates riotinto.
com 157 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Of the Groups 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
Coal & Allied forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Through a series of intermediate companies, Coal & Allied holds interests in Bengalla 40 per cent, Mount Thorley 80 per cent and Warkworth 55.6 percent.
TheGroups beneficial interests are therefore: Bengalla: 32 per cent: Mount Thorley: 64 per cent: Warkworth: 44.5 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities: the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Coal & Allied also owns 100 per cent of Hunter Valley Operations.
b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Groups interests in Hail Creek 82 per cent, Blair Athol 71.2 per cent and Kestrel 80 per cent.
Queensland Coal forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd which is 60 per cent owned by the Group holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
North Mining Ltd which is wholly owned by the Group holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River.
Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest.
The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in Robe River.
d Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Groups 10 per cent interest in Consrcio fide Alumnio Do Maranho, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a joint operator.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
e Iron ore Company of Canada Inc. is incorporated in the United States of America, but operates in Canada.
f Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holdings Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Groups 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Diamond Mine Diavik, an unincorporated arrangement that is not an entity.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
g Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 87.88 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 46.57 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
h The Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights, a further 5 per cent economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent.
The non-controlling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent of the total voting rights.
i The Group obtained a controlling interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited on 24 January 2012.
Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Turquoise Hill on 2 August 2012.
Refer to note 37 for further details relating to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill in 2012.
The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi OT and a 47.91 per cent interest in SouthGobi Resources Ltd SouthGobi : these companies are subsidiaries of Turquoise Hill.
The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT and a 28.4 per cent indirect economic interest in SouthGobi.
SouthGobi is consolidated by virtue of Turquoise Hills ability, in practice, to control the majority of effective votes at general meetings.
This entity is incorporated in Canada but operates in Mongolia.
j The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited holds 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights: the non-controlling interests hold 64.46 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia, this is considered to be a protective right.
Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rssing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
k Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
The Groups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limitedis74percent.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey and Simfer S. A. which together form .
b Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds controlling interests in OT and SouthGobi.
Turquoise Hills rights issue at the beginning of 2014 increased non-controlling interests by US$1,158 million.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Other Other Robe River Robe River companies companies Mining Co Mining Co and and c c Pty Ltd Pty Ltd eliminations eliminations Robe River Robe River 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenue 1,687 2,074 1,968 2,417 3,655 4,491 Profit after tax 766 1,021 1,036 1,093 1,802 2,114 attributable to non-controlling interests 300 398 300 398 attributable to Rio Tinto 466 623 1,036 1,093 1,502 1,716 Other comprehensive loss 364 620 187 348 551 968 Total comprehensive income 402 401 849 745 1,251 1,146 Non-current assets 4,444 4,545 5,296 5,329 9,740 9,874 Current assets 73 149 86 176 159 325 Current liabilities 112 213 271 396 383 609 Non-current liabilities 287 314 2,969 2,436 3,258 2,750 Net assets 4,116 4,167 2,142 2,673 6,258 6,840 attributable to non-controlling interests 1,620 1,645 1,620 1,645 attributable to Rio Tinto 2,496 2,522 2,142 2,673 4,638 5,195 Cashflow from operations 1,438 1,570 1,578 1,801 3,016 3,371 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 181 78 181 78 c Other companies and eliminations includes the branch of North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, that accounts for its interest in Robe River and the goodwill of US$409 million 2013: US$445 million that arose on acquisition of the Groups interest in Robe River.
During 2014, US$1,354 million was transferred from the branch to the company.
Cumulatively, US$2,251 million has been transferred and this amount is shown within liabilities above.
34 Principal joint operations At 31 December 2014 Group Name and country of operation Principal activities interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 Kestrel Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 a b Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 New Zealand a b New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.4 Canada Alouette Aluminium production 40 Indonesia c Grasberg expansion Copperandgoldmining 40 United States of America b d Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.3 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those jointoperations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
b Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control: this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification for these entities as Joint Operations.
c Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. d Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
com 159 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 35 Principal joint ventures At 31 December 2014 Number of Class of Proportion of Group Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held class held % interest % Chile a Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Oman b Shar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements allow for an Owners Council whereby significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton holders of a 57.5 per cent interest.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are however based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
b Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Shar Aluminium Company L. L. C. decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Minera Minera Benga Benga Escondida Escondida Mauritius Mauritius c c d e Limitada Limitada Limited Limited 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenue 7,607 8,553 91 135 Depreciation and amortisation 1,027 720 43 e Impairment charges 354 Other operating costs 3,237 3,697 220 289 Operating profit loss 3,343 4,136 129 551 Finance expense 33 17 11 3 Income tax 1,237 1,543 22 Profit loss after tax 2,073 2,610 140 532 Total comprehensive income loss 2,073 2,610 140 532 Non-current assets 12,093 9,823 389 Current assets 2,453 2,653 166 Current liabilities 1,567 1,031 136 Non-current liabilities 2,170 2,152 328 Net assets 10,809 9,293 91 Assets and liabilities above include: Cash and cash equivalents 263 319 Current financial liabilities 203 56 54 Non-current financial liabilities 1,060 1,084 223 Dividends received from Joint Venture Rio Tinto share 251 432 Reconciliation of the above amounts to the Investment recognised in the Group balance sheet.
d Group interest 30% 30% 65% Net assets 10,809 9,293 91 Groups ownership interest 3,243 2,788 59 Other adjustments 6 2 Carrying value of Groups interest 3,237 2,790 59 160 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS c In addition to its Investment in Equity Accounted Unit, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$546 million 2013: US$511 million relating to tax on unremitted earnings.
d On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of Mozambique.
e In 2013, the Group recognised a US$216 million post tax impairment of its investment in Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited.
The investment was recognised at fair value on acquisition and it is this investment that was impaired.
36 Principal associates At 31 December 2014 Class of Number of shares Proportion of Group Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held class held % interest % Australia a Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brasil b Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 } } 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 United States of America Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
a The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the parties: although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of Mineraa o Rio do Norte S. A. it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
c Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters d d Limited Limited 2014 2013 Revenue f Profit loss after tax 1,072 47 e Other comprehensive loss 82 Total comprehensive income loss 990 47 f Non-current assets 1,813 1,086 Current assets 86 111 Current liabilities 108 101 Non-current liabilities 1,369 1,697 Net assets 422 601 d Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation: as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls.
Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina: these are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
e Other comprehensive loss is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
f In 2014, a post tax impairment reversal of US$589 million has been recorded.
Group interest 59% 59% Net assets 422 601 Groups ownership interest 251 357 Loans to equity accounted units 228 276 Carrying value of Groups interest 479 81 riotinto.
com 161 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates continued Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group Joint Joint Ventures Ventures Associates Associates 2014 2013 2014 2013 Carrying value of Groups interest 403 405 749 784 Profit loss after tax 16 29 30 102 Other comprehensive loss 30 7 14 38 Total comprehensive loss income 14 36 16 64 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses 2014 acquisitions There were no material acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2014.
2013 acquisitions There were no material acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2013.
2012 acquisitions Consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. On 24 January 2012, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Turquoise Hill to a controlling 51.01 per cent interest 31 December 2014: 50.79 per cent interest.
The acquisition gave Rio Tinto control of the assets in Turquoise Hill other than those relating to Oyu Tolgoi OT, control of which the Group had previously gained in 2010.
Total consideration to acquire the controlling interest in Turquoise Hill amounted to US$839 million, comprising US$678 million relating to the fair value of the Groups interest in Turquoise Hill prior to the acquisition date, and US$161 million of cash price paid to acquire the controlling interest after adjusting for amounts attributable to OT and net intragroup balances between Rio Tinto and Turquoise Hill.
Fair values on acquisition of Turquoise Hill were determined and finalised during 2012.
Consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals On 7 September 2012, Rio Tinto increased its holding in RBM to 74 per cent with consolidation effective from 3 September 2012, following the completion of its acquisition of BHP Billitons entire interests including BHP Billitons 37 per cent indirect equity voting interests in the RBM operating companies.
The acquisition price was US$1.9 billion before contractual adjustments for cash payments made by RBM to BHP Billiton since the acquisition trigger date of 1 February 2012.
This price included US$0.6 billion for BHP Billitons 37 per cent equity interest in RBM, US$1.0 billion for a 50 per cent interest in outstanding RBM shareholder financing arrangements and US$0.3 billion for a royalty stream.
Provisional fair values recognised on acquisition were finalised by 3 September 2013, 12 months after the consolidation date.
No adjustments were made to provisional fair values as a result of finalisation.
2014 disposals On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal for US$1,015 million before finalisation of net debt and working capital adjustments.
The net assets and liabilities of Clermont were included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale in the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2013.
On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million before net debt and working capital adjustments.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in Sral to Norsk Hydro Aluminium ASA on 31 October 2014 and the sale of its 46.67 per cent share in Alucam to the Government of Cameroon on 31 December 2014.
On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea and agreed to transfer an equity interest in Simfer S. A. to the state.
The arrangement allows the Government of Guinea to acquire equity interests of up to 25 per cent of Simfer S. A. at a discount to fair value and a further 10 per cent at full fair value.
Arrangements to transfer an interest in a subsidiary undertaking at a discount to fair value are considered to be a share-based payment.
The discount provided or value given on the 25 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. has been calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payment as a loss of US$230 million.
The first tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent Non-Contributory Shares was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea on 26 May 2014.
A second tranche comprising 10 per cent Ordinary Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of historical mining cost.
The third tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent Non-Contributory Shares may be transferred at any time after 22 April 2016 free of charge.
The remaining two tranches of 5 per cent Ordinary Contributing Shares may be acquired by the Government of Guinea at market value at any time after 22 April 2026 and 22 April 2031 respectively.
Disposals in the cash flow statement are presented net of cash on disposal and after adjusting for working capital and other items as specified under the sale agreement.
2013 disposals Significant divestments and disposals of interests in businesses during the year ended 31 December 2013 are summarised below: On 1 December 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 80 per cent interest in Northparkes Mine to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd for consideration of US$820 million.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS On 23 May 2013, the initial public offering of Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products was launched, resulting in Rio Tinto reducing its holding from 36.6 per cent to 27.5 per cent.
Rio Tinto subsequently divested the remainder of its holding in two further tranches.
Total consideration from these transactions was US$671 million, inclusive of a special dividend and proceeds from sale of Rio Tintos equity shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Groups cash flow statement.
On 31 July 2013 Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company for US$373 million.
The purchaser of was a consortium comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto, completed the sale of its 50 per cent interest in Altynalmas Gold and 57 per cent interest in Inova Resources Limited on 29 November 2013 and 1 November 2013 respectively.
Sumeru Gold B. V. consideration paid of US$ 235 million and Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co. consideration paid of US$81 million were the respective buyers.
On 17 July 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in the Eagle nickel-copper project to Lundin Mining Corporation for consideration of US$315 million.
2012 disposals Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea GoG for the Simandou iron ore project On 24 April 2012, Rio Tinto and Chalco, a listed subsidiary of The Aluminium Corporation of China Chinalco, completed the formation of their joint venture to develop and operate the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, following the completion of all Chinese regulatory approvals.
To complete earn in to a 44.65 per cent net economic interest in the Simandou project, a consortium led by Chalco made a payment to Rio Tinto of US$1.35 billion, in line with an agreement reached with Rio Tinto on 29 July 2010.
In late 2013 Chalco completed the transfer of 65 per cent of their interest in Simandou to their holding company, Chinalco, who now holds the Simandou interest directly.
Under the Settlement Agreement signed by Rio Tinto and the GoG on 22 April 2011, the GoG has an option to take an interest of up to 35 per cent in Simfer S. A. Simfer, the Rio Tinto subsidiary that will undertake the mining portion of the Simandou project.
The Settlement Agreement provides for the transfer of ownership of railway and port infrastructure from Simfer to a newly formed infrastructure entity InfraCo in which the GoG had indicated its intention to fund a 51 per cent interest.
Amendment to Simfers mining convention and the terms of a new infrastructure convention, required to give effect to the Settlement Agreement including the GoG participation in the project, need to be finalised and will require legislative ratification.
The eventual basis of accounting for InfraCo remains to be determined pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
Other disposals During 2012, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Cable, the Specialty Alumina businesses, and the Lynemouth Power Station.
Finalisation of working capital adjustments took place where applicable and did not result in a material impact on the Group.
38 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2014 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 11,090 14,061 11,165 Long term incentive plans 5,304 3,719 16,394 17,780 11,165 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 55 108 66 Gains made on exercise of share options 5,888 1,668 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of .
 directors, product group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$6,653,000 2013: US$11,451,000: 2012: US$7,357,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$55,000 2013: US$44,000, 2012: US$nil.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$9,796,000 2013: US$6,437,000: 2012: US$3,874,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil 2013: US$64,000: 2012: US$66,000.
During 2014, one director 2013: three: 2012: three accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 2013: two: 2012: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3, onpages64to 100 of the 2014 Annual report.
com 163 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 38 Directors and key management remuneration continued Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Groups key management, including directors, was as follows: 2014 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits and costs 30,137 30,696 27,164 Post employment benefits 1,449 2,741 5,121 Share based payments 19,676 26,392 32,435 51,262 59,829 64,720 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,870,000 2013: US$2,897,000: 2012: US$2,863,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration report.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3 on pages 64 to 100 of the 2014 Annual report.
39 Auditors remuneration 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Audit of the company 4.0 3.8 3.1 Audit of subsidiaries 10.7 11.5 14.1 Total audit 14.7 15.3 17.2 Audit related assurance services 1.1 1.2 1.5 b Other assurance services 1.0 3.0 3.8 Total assurance services 2.1 4.2 5.3 c Tax compliance 0.4 0.5 0.3 c Tax advisory services 0.5 0.4 0.4 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.1 0.4 0.6 services in connection with divestment programme 0.5 0.3 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.3 0.4 0.5 Total non-audit services 1.3 2.2 2.1 18.1 21.7 24.6 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 2.7 3.0 2.9 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.4 0.3 0.1 3.1 3.3 3.0 a The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by joint operations.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and assurance over the Taxes paid report.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services includes advice on non-recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS 40 Related party transactions Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
2014 2013 2012 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,835 1,953 2,283 Sales to equity accounted units 625 1,569 1,742 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m Net funding of equity accounted units 117 88 223 Balance sheet items US$m US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 4,868 3,957 3,941 Loans to equity accounted units 71 94 282 Loans from equity accounted units 52 86 116 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units 423 615 722 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 225 290 357 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 45.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 64 to 100.
Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989.
Safe access by company employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made.
Considerable funding would be required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude study completed by BCL in 2013 indicated an estimated capital requirement of US$5.2 billion to reopen the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
Rio Tinto does not have control over BCL under IFRS, as defined in note 1, as it does not have the current ability to direct the activities that affect its returns, being the mining and sale of ore from the Panguna mine: it is therefore not a subsidiary.
On 18 August 2014, in light of developments in Papua New Guinea, including the new mining legislation passed earlier that month by the Autonomous Bougainville Government, the Group announced a strategic review of all options in relation to the 53.83 per cent stake in BCL.
43 Events after the balance sheet date On 12 February 2015, the Group announced a share buy-back of US$2 billion comprising a A$500 million c US$0.4 billion off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion as an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Ordinary shares of Rio Tinto plc have been bought back since 18 February 2015 and announcements have been made to the relevant stock exchanges.
Shares so purchased have been cancelled.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares have been purchased at the date of this report.
Other than the items above, no events were identified after the balance sheet date which could be expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
com 165 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 44 Share based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based compensation plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, is set out in the table below.
Charge credit recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 152 142 243 Cash-settled plans 3 1 1 Total 152 142 240 1 1 The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: Share Savings Plans Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plan in 2012.
Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards have vested.
Share Option Plan The Group has a policy of settling awards made under the Share Option Plan in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions.
The performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans as the LTIP arrangements have been simplified and awards are now only made under the Performance Share Plan.
UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
These awards are settledin equity.
Performance Share Plan Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards and therefore the Plan is accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
One-third of the 2013 and 2014 awards must satisfy an earnings target relative to ten global mining comparators for vesting.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
As at 31 December 2014 it was assumed 100 per cent of awards subject to the condition would vest.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Management Share Plan The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at seven per cent per annum of outstanding awards 2013: five per cent per annum.
Bonus Deferral Plan The Bonus Deferral Plan was originally introduced during 2009 for the mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product group executives and for other executives.
Additional Bonus Deferral Awards have been made each year since 2011 made in respect of the 2010 bonus for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and product group executives and ten per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividendsvesting.
Global Employee Share Plan The Global Employee Share Plan was introduced during 2012.
The company provides matching shares for each share purchased.
The vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
These awards are settled in equity.
The fair value of each matching share on the day of grant is equalto share price on the date of purchase.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2014 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted average average remaining Aggregate exercise price contractual intrinsic per option life value 2014 Options outstanding at 31 December 2014 Number A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan exercise price 21 29 299,561 26.32 0.8 2 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan exercise price A$48 A$60 609,426 53.40 1.1 2 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 15 43 1,438,972 32.31 5.2 8 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$30 A$77 450,964 51.43 3.5 4 2,798,923 16 As at 31 December 2013 there were 4,216,531 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$57 million.
Options exercisable at 31 December 2014 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 15 43 1,128,973 31.52 4.7 8 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$30 A$77 450,964 51.43 3.5 4 1,579,937 12 As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
The Management Share Plan, Performance Share Plan, Bonus Deferral Plan, Global Employee Share Plan and UK Share Plan together represent 93 per cent 2013: 91 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2014.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2014 was less than US$1 million 2013: less than US$1 million.
45 Post retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Groups liabilities for post retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend on the future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution arrangements instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
For unionised employees some plans remainopenbut others are closed.
The Group does not usually participate in multiemployer plans in which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans.
The Groups participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed disclosures are provided in this note.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Pension plans The majority of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and are closed to new entrants.
Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of service.
Some of these plans have been closed to new entrants but some remain open at present.
The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant provinces and territories predominantly Quebec.
Pension Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with the relevant regulations.
The Pension Committees generally have a number of members appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases there is also an independent Committee member.
The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed to new members.
New employees are admitted to defined contribution sections.
The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with UK regulations.
Trustee boards have a number of directors appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases there is also an independent trustee director.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary amount per year of service.
A Benefits Governance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US regulations.
Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and providesbenefits linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Foundation Board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by retirees.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The defined benefit sections are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
Plan assets The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a diversified range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently the funding level of the pension plans is affected by movements in the level of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates and equity markets and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a Value at Risk approach.
These measures are considered when deciding whether significant changes in investment strategy are required.
Asset-liability studies are conducted on a periodic basis for the main pension plans to determine the optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Groups tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and the views of the Pension Committees and Trustee boards who are legally responsible for the investments of the plans.
In Canada, the UK and Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure that the investment policy adopted is consistent with the Groups tolerance for risk.
In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy, subjectto the local investment regulations.
The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2014 2013 Equities 39.1% 45.3% Quoted 35.4% 42.1% Private 3.7% 3.2% Bonds 46.9% 40.4%  13.6% 10.7% Government inflation-linked 11.8% 10.3% Corporate and other publicly quoted 20.7% 18.5% Private 0.8% 0.9% Property 10.1% 8.7% Quoted property funds 6.0% 4.6% Unquoted property funds 4.0% 4.0% Directly held property 0.1% 0.1% Qualifying Insurance Policies 0.5% 1.7% Cash & Other 3.4% 3.9% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans is US$22 million 2013: US$40 million.
The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic distribution and market sectors.
The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other quoted bonds are usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly in North America.
com 169 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of properties.
The directly held property is owned by the Swiss pension fund and is predominantly invested in properties in and around Zurich.
The holdings of Cash and Other are predominantly cash and short-term money market instruments.
Investments in private equity, private debt, unquoted property funds and directly held property are less liquid than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its pension plans.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: 2014 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 25% 22% 25% 25% 29% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 11% 2% 11% 11% 11% Proportion relating to retirees 64% 76% 64% 64% 60% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average duration of obligations years 14.0 13.0 13.9 13.3 14.1 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: 2014 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 47% 44% 46% 45% 49% UK 29% 2% 27% 27% 23% US 12% 52% 15% 14% 15% Switzerland 5% 0% 5% 6% 5% Eurozone 4% 0% 4% 5% 5% Australia 2% 0% 2% 2% 2% Other 1% 2% 1% 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Total expense recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 187 9 196 284 270 Past service income cost 66 66 1 4 Curtailment losses gains 1 1 44 59 Settlement gains 22 22 2  83 50 133 209 240 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 19 19 22 20 Total defined benefit expense 268 7 261 468 475 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 328 1 329 337 348 Total expense recognised in the income statement 596 6 590 805 823 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
In 2014, US$2 million pre-tax of curtailment and settlement gains relating to the closure of a site have been excluded from underlying earnings 2013: US$21 million, 2012: US$34 million, both relating to divestments.
The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount reductions at various operations and divestments during 2014 and previous years.
The settlement gains in 2014 and 2013 relate mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested participants were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of their future pension payments.
The other benefits past service income during 2014 relates to design changes to US post-retirement medical plans.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial losses gains 1,853 1,092 1,235 Return on assets net of interest on assets 1,127 1,212 903 Loss on application of asset ceiling 9 44 Total loss gain recognised in other comprehensive income 735 2,260 332 170 riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 15,219 15,219 15,527 Present value of obligations funded 16,869 16,869 16,699 Present value of obligations unfunded 983 1,047 2,030 2,093 Present value of obligations total 17,852 1,047 18,899 18,792 Effect of asset ceiling 53 53 44 Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 2,686 1,047 3,733 3,309 Comprising: Deficits 3,039 1,047 4,086 3,599 Surpluses 353 353 290 Net deficits on pension plans 2,686 2,686 2,215 Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation 1,047 1,047 1,094 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as Trade and other receivables.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions including post retirement benefits.
Funding policy and contributions to plans The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum level required in each country.
In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland the minimum is negotiated with the local Trustee or Foundation in accordance with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that the Group might obtain by accelerating contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
2014 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Contributions Contributions to defined benefit plans 291 62 353 734 727 Contributions to defined contribution plans 309 1 310 317 328 Contributions to industry-wide plans 19 19 20 20 Total 619 63 682 1,071 1,075 Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2015 are estimated to be around US$375 million.
This is kept under regular review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum funding requirements.
As contributions to many plans are reviewed on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2015 and subsequent years cannot be determined in advance and may be higher or lower than this.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments net of participant contributions.
The Groups contributions are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2014.
Movements in the net defined benefit liability A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed analysis of the movements in the present value of the obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participateinthe plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability: Net defined benefit liability at start of the year 2,215 1,094 3,309 6,051 Amounts recognised in Income 268 7 261 468 Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 668 67 735 2,260 Employer contributions 291 62 353 734 Divestments newly included arrangements 13 13 19 Currency exchange rate movements 161 45 206 197 Net defined benefit liability at end of the year 2,686 1,047 3,733 3,309 riotinto.
com 171 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 17,698 1,094 18,792 20,722 Current employer service cost 187 9 196 284 Past service cost 66 66 1 Curtailments 1 1 44 Settlements 326 326 131 Interest on obligations 733 50 783 776 Contributions by plan participants 32 5 37 41 Benefits paid 975 67 1,042 1,086 Experience gain 27 29 56 90 Changes in financial assumptions loss gain 1,624 94 1,718 965 Changes in demographic assumptions loss gain 189 2 191 37 Arrangements divested 58 58 94 Currency exchange rate gain 1,226 45 1,271 583 Present value of obligation at end of the year 17,852 1,047 18,899 18,792 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 15,527 15,527 14,671 Settlements 304 304 129 Interest on assets 655 655 567 Contributions by plan participants 32 5 37 41 Contributions by employer 291 62 353 734 Benefits paid 975 67 1,042 1,086 Non-investment expenses 19 19 22 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 1,127 1,127 1,212 Arrangements divested 45 45 75 Currency exchange rate loss 1,070 1,070 386 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 15,219 15,219 15,527 2014 2013 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the effect of the asset ceiling: Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year 44 44 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 5 5 Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 9 9 44 Currency exchange rate gain 5 5 Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 53 53 44 In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules specific toeach pension plan.
The calculation takes into account any minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and whether a refund of surplus may be available.
Where the plan rules and legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus the asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a refund will only be available many years in the future.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
b The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2014 was 2.0 per cent 2013: 2.4 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 3.9 per cent 2013: 4.6 per cent, medical trend rate: 6.7 per cent reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022 broadly on a straight line basis 2013: 6.8 per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022, claims costs based on individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years 2013: 25 years and that a man aged 60 in 2034 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 28 years 2013: 27 years.
Sensitivity The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity of the obligations to changes in assumptions we calculate what the obligations would be if we were to make small changes to each of the key assumptions in isolation.
The difference between this figure and the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of this sensitivity analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this approach is valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
2014 2013 Approximate increase Approximate increase decrease in obligations decrease in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,166 63 1,095 62 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,250 68 1,169 66 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 653 23 626 32 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 620 20 594 29 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 100 2 100 3 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 97 2 97 2 Demographic allowance for future participants assumed to have the mortality rates of improvements in longevity individuals who are one year older 477 18 437 16 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 477 18 437 16 Medical cost trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points 41 59 decrease of 1.0 percentage points 35 54 Information on the sensitivity of the Groups earnings to the main assumptions is set out in note 1 Critical accounting policies and estimates section x on page 122. riotinto.
com 173 Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued 46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2014 2013 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 16,523 1,490 Non-current assets 11,302 11,480 Total assets 27,825 12,970 Liabilities Current liabilities 8,230 1,336 Non-current liabilities 38 329 Total liabilities 8,268 1,665 Net assets 19,557 11,305 Shareholders equity Share capital 4,113 4,113 Other reserves 377 272 Retained earnings 15,067 6,920 Total equity 19,557 11,305 Profit of the parent company 9,121 4,861 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 9,122 4,861 Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Limited guarantees Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled A$25.4 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: A$26.0 billion : in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was A$9.1 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: A$8.4 billion.
Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed external debt held by Rio Tinto Group entities which totalled A$0.1billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: A$0.1 billion and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of A$6 million at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: A$nil.
In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of certain obligations of Rio Tinto Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet At 31 December 2014 2013 Note US$m US$m Fixed assets Investments B 36,139 36,107 36,139 36,107 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiaries 940 119 Cash at bank and in hand 3 3 943 122 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiaries C 11,922 13,082 Dividends payable 17 9 11,939 13,091 Net current liabilities 10,996 12,969 Total assets less current liabilities 25,143 23,138 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 58 Net assets 25,143 23,080 Capital and reserves Called up share capital D 230 230 Share premium account E 4,288 4,269 Other reserves E 11,982 11,982 Profit and loss account E 8,643 6,599 Equity shareholders funds 25,143 23,080 a The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
b Profit after tax for the year amounted to US$4,821 million 2013: US$1,805 million profit.
As permitted by section 408 of the United Kingdom CompaniesAct2006, noprofitand loss account for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996.
The company is also not required under the terms of FRS 8 to disclose related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes were approved by the directors on 4 March 2015 and the balance sheetis signed on their behalf by Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Rio Tinto plc Registered number: 719885 riotinto.
com 175 Rio Tinto plc continued A Principal accounting policies under UK GAAP a Basis of Accounting The Rio Tinto plc entity financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP using the historical cost convention, except for financial guarantees which have been measured at fair value as set out in note e below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting Policies and with last year.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and are set out below.
b Deferred tax Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except that deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
There are no unprovided amounts relating to deferred tax.
c Currency translation The Companys local or functional currency is the US dollar.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, including the issue of shares, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements see note 41.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
d Investments Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less impairment provisions.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in  that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Companys weighted average cost of capital, with appropriate adjustment for the risks associated with the relevant unit.
e Financial guarantees Obligations for financial guarantees issued by the Company to other Group companies are reflected as liabilities at fair value, in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments measurement.
Such obligations result in corresponding increases in the carrying value of amounts owed by subsidiaries.
Payments received are set off against the asset recognised which is initially recorded at fair value.
f Share based payments The fair value of the grant is recognised as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work.
The fair value is recognised over the relevant vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to the profit and loss account reserve.
Payments received from the Companys subsidiaries in respect of these share based payments result in a credit to reduce the cost of the investment.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg total shareholder return.
When market prices are not available, the Company uses fair values provided by independent actuaries using a lattice based option valuation model.
Non-market vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate ofthe number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actualawards issued.
g Revenue recognition Interest is accounted for on the accruals basis.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
h Dividends Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation ie when they have been approved.
i Treasury shares The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds through the profit and loss account reserve.
B Rio Tinto plc fixed assets 2014 2013 US$m US$m Fixed asset investments Shares in Group companies: At 1 January 36,107 36,111 Additions 78 69 Other adjustments 46 73 At 31 December 36,139 36,107 The directors believe that the carrying value of the individual investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS C Amounts owed to subsidiaries Amounts owed to subsidiaries are subject to interest rates based on LIBOR and are unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Rio Tinto plc called up share capital 2014 2013 US$m US$m a Allotted and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 230 230 b Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled At 31 December 230 230 a 971 new shares were issued during the year 2013: 951 new shares, and 1,450,659 shares 2013: 1,436,542 shares were reissued from treasury pursuant to share plans.
b During the year no shares were purchased from Rio Tinto Limited 2013: nil.
E Rio Tinto plc share premium and reserves Share Profit and premium Other loss account reserves account At 31 December 2014 US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4,269 11,982 6,599 a Adjustment for share based payments and other items 19 80 Profit for the financial year 4,821 Dividends paid 2,857 At 31 December 4,288 11,982 8,643 Share Profit and premium Other loss account reserves account At 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4,244 11,982 7,259 Adjustment for share based payments and other items 25 49 Profit for the financial year 1,805 Dividends paid 2,514 At 31 December 4,269 11,982 6,599 a Other reserves include US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
F Rio Tinto plc guarantees Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled US$20.8 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: US$23.2 billion : in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: US$7.5 billion.
Rio Tinto plc has provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability position of US$55 million at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: US$47 million.
Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various pension funds.
Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay any contributions due from Group companies participating in these funds in the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements.
The guarantees were not called upon in 2014.
The aggregate of the company contributions to these plans in 2014 was US$65 million.
Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Group entities as at 31 December 2014 amount to US$439 million 31 December 2013: US$445 million, included within this balance is US$59 million 31 December 2013: US$53 million in relation to non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
G Events after the balance sheet date On 12 February 2015, the Group announced a share buy-back of US$2 billion comprising a A$500 million c US$0.4 billion off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion as an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS a b c Gross revenue EBITDA Net earnings for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December Rio Tinto interest 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 % US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Product Group Total 50,041 54,599 55,566 20,614 22,672 20,291 10,215 11,334 10,228 Other items 755 995 928 593 730 750 Exploration and evaluation 194 168 118 156 145 97 Net interest 161 242 112 Underlying EBITDA earnings 19,665 21,509 19,245 9,305 10,217 9,269 Items excluded from underlying 24 31 825 556 350 2,778 6,552 12,297 EBITDA earnings EBITDA net earnings 18,840 20,953 19,595 6,527 3,665 3,028 Reconciliation to Group income statement Share of equity accounted unit sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 2,377 3,404 4,655 Depreciation & amortisation in subsidiaries excluding capitalised depreciation 4,828 4,470 4,563 Impairment charges 221 7,545 16,918 Depreciation & amortisation in equity accounted units 472 401 460 Taxation and finance items in equity accounted units 759 625 49 Consolidated sales revenue profit loss on ordinary activities before finance items and tax 47,664 51,171 50,942 12,560 7,912 2,395 Refer to notes a to p on page 182. riotinto.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Depreciation Capital expenditure n & amortisation Employees o for the year for the year Operating assets for the year ended 31 December ended 31 December as at 31 December ended 31 December Rio Tinto interest 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 % US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Number Number Number Total 7,418 12,944 17,575 58,791 63,957 65,776 Add back: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 744 57 40 Total capital expenditure per cash flow statement 8,162 13,001 17,615 Less: Net debt 12,495 18,055 19,192 Less: EAU funded balances excluded from net debt 11 16 31 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 46,285 45,886 46,553 riotinto.
com 181 Notes to financial information by business unit Business units are classified according to the Groups management structure.
Where presentational revisions are made, comparative amounts are adjusted accordingly.
a Includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for salesto subsidiaries.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income statement in the year.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
Business unit earnings are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
d Pilbara represents the Groups 100 percent holding in Hamersley and 65 per cent holding of Robe River Iron Associates.
30 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary and therefore the Groups net beneficial interest is 53 per cent.
e Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities between Bauxite and Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and Other integrated operations which in total reflect the results of the integrated production of aluminium and Other product group items which relate to other commercial activities.
Following reintegration in 2013, the four aluminium smelters and the Gove bauxite mine previously grouped within Pacific Aluminium in Other Operations are included within the Aluminium group.
The Gove alumina refinery is reported within Other Operations.
f Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. g Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC is held indirectly through its 50.8 per cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. which in turn owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi.
h Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company on 31 July 2013 and of its 80 per cent interest in the Northparkes mine on 1 December 2013. i Includes Rio Tintos 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, through which Rio Tinto holds its beneficial interests in Bengalla, Mount Thorley and Warkworth of 32 per cent, 64 per cent and 44.5 per cent respectively.
j On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM, including its interests in the Benga project, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited.
Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was retained, is reported within Other Energy.
k Includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent, Diavik 60 per cent and Murowa 77.8 per cent.
l Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane 100 per cent, QIT Madagascar Minerals 80 per cent and Richards Bay Minerals attributable interest of 74 per cent.
m Other Operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interest in the Gove alumina refinery refer to note e and Rio Tinto Marine.
n Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
o Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies i. e. inclusive of such companies debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies.
In addition, Oyu Tolgois operating assets are shown net of Turquoise Hills public shareholders interest in intragroup receivables from Oyu Tolgoi, previously shown in Other Copper.
Comparative amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
p Comprising Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol thermal coal mine and assets and liabilities relating to the anticipated disposal of SouthGobi Resources Limited.
Net assets held for sale at 31 December 2013 comprised the Clermont and Blair Athol thermal coal mines, and ZAC which is no longer reported as held for sale.
Amounts are presented after deducting non-controlling interests, including the non-controlling interests shareof third party net debt and balances owed with Rio Tinto Group subsidiaries.
