Shareholder information In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided for the Organisational structure ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to each The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in England Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed on the London Stock Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered in Australia under Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special circumstances ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
where, for example, certain modifications are made to the share capital of one Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has executive offices in Melbourne.
Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and the underlying shares are consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and are listed on specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the the New York Stock Exchange.
approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval procedure described under Voting rights below.
In addition, any adjustments are required Nomenclature and financial data to be confirmed by the Groups external auditors.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in this Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Company report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
These seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies, Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances where there may and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own be a conflict of interest between the shareholders of each Company.
investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have generally been omitted from To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, resolutions to Group company names, except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both Companies Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in US dollars US$ is derived from, and as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under Voting rights.
It is should be read in conjunction with, the 2014 financial statements.
In general, a requirement of the constitution of each Company that a person can only be a financial data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been director of one Company if that person is also a director of the other Company.
translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been provided So, for example, if a person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data can be extracted directly she would also cease to be a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
Certain key information has been provided in all three One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide currencies in the 2014 financial statements.
range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the strictest History applicable level.
Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called The Rio TintoZinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the merger of The Dividend rights Rio Tinto Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
The Rio Tinto The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Company was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is without Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporations origins trace back to the Australian taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in mining industry in the early twentieth century.
Operating out of Broken Hill in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated and paid in sterling New South Wales, it came to prominence with the mining of silver, lead and and Australian dollars.
The Companies are also required to announce and pay zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
their dividends and other distributions as close in time to each other Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called The as possible.
Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited and in 1962 the Australian In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient distributable interests of Consolidated Zinc Corporation and the Rio Tinto Company Limited reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised capital distribution, it of the United Kingdom were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia would be entitled to receive a top-up payment from the other Company.
The Limited as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Victoria, top-up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or Australia.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name to by way of a contractual payment.
If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law applicable Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the Equalisation Ratio.
deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew through acquisition.
However, should such a departure occur, then the relevant Company will put RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies aside reserves to be held for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian aluminium  producer Alcan Inc. flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are of no Dual listed companies structure economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
companies merger the DLC structure which was designed to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if they Voting rights held shares in a single entity owning all of the assets of both Companies.
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all matters which Following the approval of the DLC structure, both Companies entered into a affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
These are referred to DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through which each as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the creation of new classes of Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto share capital, the appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the Limited are managed on a unified basis, to ensure that the boards of directors receiving of the annual financial statements.
All shareholder resolutions of each Company are the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements including Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
designed to provide shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest in the DLC structure.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of shareholders of Capital distribution rights each Company by requiring their separate approval for decisions that do not If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement affect the shareholders of both Companies equally.
Matters requiring this provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both Companies.
If approval procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a the surplus assets available for distribution by one Company on each of the poll.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be shares held by its shareholders exceed the surplus assets available for changed unless approved separately by shareholders of both Companies distribution by the other Company on each of the shares held by its under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
shareholders, then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the amount Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where legislation available for distribution on each share held by shareholders of each Company requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate majority of conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the shareholders in one Company, and approval of the matter by shareholders of shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights to the assets of the the other Company is not required.
combined Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision or a The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power to change that shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can determine that matters not Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations expressly listed in either category should be put to shareholders for their The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and approval under either procedure.
obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies in To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, each Company has entered into excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued a Special Voting obligations to make a public offer for all of the outstanding issued shares of Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a common Trustee.
The threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting Share to and regulations is 20 per cent on a standalone basis or, taking into account RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting Share only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis.
RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the shareholders of one Company are voted at the As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the parallel meeting of the other Company.
The role of these special purpose Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of companies in achieving this is described below.
extending these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise control over one Company In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders of the Companies can be without having made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
It is excluded from voting at the respective Companys general meetings because consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise, and the equal they have acquired shares in one Company in excess of a given threshold treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations without making an offer for all the shares in the other Company.
If this should should operate in this way.
The Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the occur, the votes cast by these excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on any person who Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of the voting controls, directlyorindirectly,  are announced to the stock exchanges, to the media in the UK and Australia, Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto and published on the Rio Tinto website.
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of the votes at that Companys At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is general meetings.
considered, each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the holder of its Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to certain shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, such persons required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast by public may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant Company, may not shareholders for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto receive dividends or other distributions from the relevant Company, and may Limited shareholders meeting.
be divested of their interest by the directors of the relevant Company.
These restrictions continue to apply until such persons have either made a public The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold any offer for all of the publicly held shares of the other Company, or have reduced voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto Limited and their controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or have acquired cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held shares of At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is each Company.
considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder of its These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the public shares of both Companies would be required in order to avoid the restrictions shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
The holder of the set out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only held Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with in one of the Companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to exempt a the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel person from the operation of these rules.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to co-operate to The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting  in their Articles of Association shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and and Constitution.
cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
com 221 Shareholder information continued Guarantees Share ownership In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of Substantial shareholders creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, each Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other Company and Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by the other Company, per cent or more, or any person with voting power of five per cent or more in subject to certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the relevant companies with notice.
Guarantees may make demands upon the guarantor thereunder without first The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of having recourse to the Company or persons whose obligations are being 16 February 2015 are: guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited Percentage of circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after such termination issued share Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares capital and, in the case of other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of due notice.
The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provisions AXA S. A.
BlackRock Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 Shining Prospect Markets Pte.
Ltd 13 Mar 2012 182,550,329 12.7 Rio Tinto plc The Capital Group The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange Companies, Inc. 21 Jan 2014 57,950,440 4.10 with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service The Capital Group SETS system.
Companies, Inc. 3 April 2014 55,307,243 3.91 Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc American depositary Rio Tinto Limited receipts are available in Rio Tintos Annual report on Form 20-F. Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd a 10 June 2009 Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange a In its substantial holding notice filed on 10 June 2009 Shining Prospect Pte.
The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium Corporation of The ASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
China disclosed a holding in Rio Tinto plc shares which, at that time, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, gave these entities and  Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
Ltd currently holds 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares, which gives these  9.9 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision Matter.
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in a change in control.
No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
As of 16 February 2015, the total amount of the Groups voting securities owned by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 101,487 ordinary shares of 10p each or ADRs and in Rio Tinto Limited was 196,163 ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than one per cent of the Groups total number of shares in issue.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Analysis of ordinary shareholders Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited No.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,414,463,210 publicly held shares: 10,914,431 shares held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares andthe percentage of issued capital each holds as at 16 February 2015: Percentage of Number of issued share Rio Tinto Limited shares capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 86,885,437 19.94 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 73,026,709 16.76 National Nominees Limited 48,223,245 11.07 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 25,280,388 5.80 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 11,123,931 2.55 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 5,377,081 1.23 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.84 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT Comnwlth Super Corp A C 3,259,363 0.75 AMP Life Limited 2,704,072 0.62 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,676,062 0.61 Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.58 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 2,052,514 0.47 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 1,993,697 0.46 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited PI Pooled A C 1,933,487 0.44 National Nominees Limited DB A C 1,132,958 0.26 Computershare Trustee Jey Limited RE 3000091 A C 1,074,855 0.25 Warbont Nominees Pty Limited Accumulation Entrepot A C 1,059,570 0.24 Australian United Investment Company Limited 950,000 0.22 Computershare Trustee Jey Limited RE 3000086 A C 910,949 0.21 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 908,710 0.21 Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
com 223 Shareholder information continued Objects Dividends At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Both Companies have paid dividends on their ordinary shares every year since Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents incorporation in 1962.
The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive dividends whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the Companies to have the are explained under the description of the Dual listed companies structure on widest possible scope of activities.
Directors Dividend policy Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, a director may not vote in respect The aim of our progressive dividend policy is to maintain or increase the US of any proposal in which he, or any other person connected with him, has any dollar value of ordinary dividends per share.
The rate of the total dividend, in material interest, other than by virtue of his interests in shares or debentures US dollars per share, is determined taking into account the results for the past or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company, except where year and the outlook.
The interim dividend is set at one half of the total resolutions: dividend for the previous year.
indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in respect of Dividend determination obligations of the Company, for which the director has assumed The majority of our sales are transacted in US dollars, making this the most responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: appropriate measure for our global business performance.
It is our main relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a holder of reporting currency and consequently the natural currency for dividend securities or as an underwriter: determination.
Dividends determined in US dollars are translated at exchange concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially rates prevailing two days prior to the declaration and payable in sterling by interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class of Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
shares of such a body corporate: On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can elect to receive dividends in relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to receive other employees: and dividends in sterling.
If such an election is made, the dividend amounts relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase received will be calculated by converting the declared dividend using the for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions exchange rates applicable to sterling and Australian dollars five days prior to undertaken as directors or officers of the Company.
Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is constrained Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other currencies by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of the board while a should contact the Companies share registrars, who also offer payment matter in which the director has a material personal interest is being services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
2014 dividends The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Companies to borrow money, to charge any property or business of the Companies or all, or The 2014 interim and final dividends were determined at 96 US cents and any, of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any other security at 119 US cents per share respectively and the applicable conversion rates for for a debt, liability or obligation of the Companies or of any other person.
The the interim and final dividend were US$1.6871 and US$1.52595 to the pound directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the sterling and US$0.93125 and US$0.77790 to the Australian dollar respectively.
aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders who elected to receive their interim subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the dividend in Australian dollars the applicable conversion rate was A$1.74955 Companies share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an and for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected to receive their dividend in ordinary resolution of the Company.
sterling the applicable conversion rate was 0.57158.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by way of Final dividends of 77.98 pence or 152.98 Australian cents per share will be qualification.
The Remuneration Report on pages 64 and 100 provides paid on 9 April 2015.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders requesting the 2014 information on shareholding policies relating to executive and non-executive final dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs directors.
Please refer to the Corporate governance section on pages 53 to 63 each representing one share and those Rio Tinto Limited shareholders for information on the appointment of directors.
requesting the 2014 final dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the applicable conversion rates will be announced on 31 March 2015.
Rights attaching to shares Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits Dividend reinvestment plan DRP available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally accepted Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders are entitled to opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market.
receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
The directors may Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be extended to shareholders in the US, also pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified Canada and certain other countries.
by the financial position of the Group.
Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend Material contracts was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and returned to the Articles of Association and Constitution, and DLC Merger Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may be invested or Sharing Agreement otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or As explained on pages 220 to 222, under the terms of the DLC structure the otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into certain contractual arrangements which are designed to place the shareholders of Voting both Companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which the single entity which owned all of the assets of both Companies.
Generally, and holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a poll, as far as is permitted by the UK Companies Act and the Australian and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll has Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is reflected in the been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and is entitled to Limited.
The summaries below include descriptions of material rights of the vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
The holder of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a show of hands.
com STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised Rights upon a winding-up representative and is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon a which he or she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of winding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution: the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the shareholders after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, at the parallel meeting of the other Companys shareholders.
whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: and A poll may be demanded by any of the following: subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares the chairman of the meeting: is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of a special any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less resolution of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or than one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the total any part of the assets in kind.
voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of ordinary any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 221. at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares Facility agreement conferring that right Rio Tinto plc : or Details of the Groups US$7.5 billion multi-currency committed revolving the holder of the Special Voting Share.
credit facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2014 financial statements.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, Exchange controls and foreign investment or to join others in demanding one.
Rio Tinto plc The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three members There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other UK restrictions on the present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non-resident entitled to vote, and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two members holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that materially affect the conduct of present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
It should be noted, however, that various sanctions, Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing laws, regulations or conventions may restrict the import or export of capital by, of resolutions as: or the payment of dividends to, non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or under ordinary resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of a majority of the UK law that limit the right of non-resident owners to hold or vote votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum, for Rio Tinto plc shares.
example the election of directors: and special resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of not less than Rio Tinto Limited three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a Under current Australian legislation, permission is not required for the quorum, for example amending the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc movement of funds into or out of Australia.
However, there is a prohibition on, or the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
or in some cases the specific prior approval of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs must be obtained for, certain The Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as Joint Decisions and payments or other dealings connected with countries or parties identified with Class Rights Actions as explained under Voting rights on pages 220 and 221. terrorism, or to whom United Nations or autonomous Australian Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days written notice for sanctions apply.
Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
Other meetings of Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days written notice for the passing of remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from a special resolution and with 14 days notice for any other resolution, payments of interest.
depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
All meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In calculating the period of notice the Acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or certain other equity days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of the meeting are not instruments in Australian companies by foreign interests are subject to review included.
Among other things, the notice must specify the nature of the and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia under the business to be transacted.
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
The Takeovers Act applies to acquisitions by a single foreign person and any Variation of rights associate of 15 per cent or more, or by several foreign persons and any If, atanytime,  into different classes of shares, the associates of 40 per cent or more of the issued shares, issued shares if all rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the rights were converted, voting power or potential voting power in an Australian relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in company, and to other transactions that result in such persons controlling value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary such interests.
The Takeovers Act also applies to direct investments by foreign resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that government investors, including acquisitions of interests of ten per cent or class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of more.
Persons who are proposing such acquisitions or transactions are Association and Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting required to notify the Treasurer of their intention.
The Treasurer has the power apply, except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more persons to order divestment in cases where such acquisitions or transactions have who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the already occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners issued shares of the class.
whose interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, there are no limitations imposed by law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Groups ordinary shares or ADSs that would not apply generally to all shareholders.
