Directors report Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing Responsibility statement the Annual Report and the financial We confirm to the best of our knowledge: statements in accordance with applicable law the consolidated financial statements, and regulations.
Company law requires the prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued directors to prepare financial statements for by the International Accounting Standards the Group in accordance with International Board and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, adopted by the European Union and Article 4 financial position and profit of the Group: of the IAS Regulation and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company the Strategic Report includes a fair review in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
of the development and performance of the Under company law the directors must not business and the position of the Group, approve the accounts unless they are together with a description of the principal satisfied that they give a true and fair view of risks and uncertainties that it faces: and the state of affairs of the Company and of the the Annual Report and financial profit or loss of the Company for that period.
statements, taken as a whole, are fair, In preparing these financial statements, balanced and understandable and provide International Accounting Standard 1 requires information necessary for shareholders to that directors: assess the Groups performance, business properly select and apply accounting model and strategy.
policies: By order of the Board present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements ERIC WATKINS in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to COMPANY SECRETARY understand the impact of particular 16 June 2014 transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
62 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 JANET TArlETON A-Plant CONTENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Ashtead Group plc 63 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement 65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 Consolidated balance sheet 66 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 67 Consolidated cash flow statement 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Operating costs and other income 74 5.
Exceptional items, fair value remeasurements and amortisation 75 6.
Notes to the cash flow statement 89 26.
Events after the balance sheet date 91 30.
Parent company information 92 Ten year history 95 Additional information 96 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014
