Other Information SUBSIDIARIES, JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES AND ASSOCIATES The companies listed below are indirectly held by Rolls-Royce Holdings plc except Rolls-Royce Group plc which is directly held.
Each companys principal place of business is its country of incorporation and the effective group interest is 100%.
In accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, the subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are those where the results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the financial statements.
A list of all related undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Country of incorporation Principal activity Rolls-Royce Brasil Limitada Brazil Aero engine repair and overhaul and marine aftermarket support services Rolls-Royce Canada Limited Canada Aero engine sales, service and overhaul MTU Engineering Suzhou Company Limited China Service and spare parts centre Rolls-Royce Marine Manufacturing China Manufacture and supply of marine equipment and marine aftermarket Shanghai Limited supportservices Composite Technology and Applications Limited England Development of aero engine fan blades and fan cases MTU UK Limited England Sale and services of off-highway diesel engines Rolls-Royce Controls and Data Services Limited England Development and manufacture of aero engine controls and monitoring systems Rolls-Royce Group plc England Holding company Rolls-Royce International Limited England International support and commercial information services Rolls-Royce Leasing Limited England Engine leasing Rolls-Royce Marine Electrical Systems Limited England Marine electrical systems Rolls-Royce Marine Power Operations Limited England Nuclear submarine propulsion systems Rolls-Royce plc England Principal UK trading company Rolls-Royce Power Development Limited England Generation of electricity from independent power projects Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc England Marine systems Rolls-Royce Total Care Services Limited England Aero engine aftermarket support services Vinters Engineering Limited England Production, repair and overhaul of power generation, transmission and conversion equipment for military and commercial activities Rolls-Royce OY AB Finland Manufacture of marine winches and propeller systems Rolls-Royce Civil Nuclear SAS France Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants Rolls-Royce Technical Support SARL France Aero engine project support LOrange GmbH Germany Development and production of high-pressure injection systems for diesel engines MTU Friedrichshafen GmbH Germany Development, production and distribution of gas turbines and engines MTU Onsite Energy GmbH Germany Sales and service of gas engines MTU Onsite Energy Systems GmbH Germany Manufacture and distributor of diesel-powered generating sets Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Germany Aero engine design, development and manufacture Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG Germany Supplier of engines and power trains for marine propulsion, distributed power generation and industrial off-highway sectors Nightingale Insurance Limited Guernsey Insurance services MTU Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Distributor for off-highway products and after-sales service Rolls-Royce India Private Limited India Diesel engine project management and customer support Rolls-Royce Marine India Private Limited India Provision of marine support services Rolls-Royce Operations India Private Limited India Engineering support services Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A. Italy Manufacture of gas turbine engine castings MTU Italia S. r. l. Italy Distributor for off-highway products and after-sales service MTU Benelux B. V. Netherlands Sales and after-sales support for diesel engines Bergen Engines AS Norway Design and manufacture of medium-speed diesel engines Rolls-Royce Marine AS Norway Design and manufacture of ship equipment MTU Asia Pte.
Limited Singapore Distributor of diesel engines and spare parts Rolls-Royce Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore Aero engine parts manufacturing and engine assembly and marine aftermarket support services MTU South Africa Pty.
Limited South Africa Distributor of off-highway products and after-sales service MTU Ibrica Propulsin y Energa S. L. Spain Sales and service of transmission equipment with diesel and gas engines Rolls-Royce AB Sweden Manufacture of marine propeller systems MTU Motor Trbin Sanayi five Tic.
A. S. Turkey Production of diesel engines and manufacturer of control systems Data Systems & Solutions LLC US Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants MTU America Inc.
US Sales and service of engines and systems Optimized Systems and Solutions Inc.
US Equipment health management and advanced data management services PKMJ Technical Services Inc.
US Civil nuclear engineering services and software solutions R. Brooks Associates Inc.
US Specialist civil nuclear reactor services Rolls-Royce Corporation US Design, development and manufacture of gas turbine engines 152 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information Country of incorporation Principal activity Rolls-Royce Crosspointe LLC US Manufacturing facility for aero engine parts Rolls-Royce Defense Services Inc.
US Aero engine repair and overhaul Rolls-Royce Energy Systems Inc.
US Energy turbine generator packages Rolls-Royce Engine Services Oakland Inc.
US Aero engine repair and overhaul Rolls-Royce High Temperature Composites Inc.
US Production of state-of-the-art composite materials Rolls-Royce Marine North America Inc.
US Design and manufacture of marine equipment and aftermarket support services The companies listed below are indirectly held by Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
Each companys principal place of business is its country of incorporation.
Country of Class of Group incorporation shares % of class held interest held % Shanxi North MTU Diesel Co. Ltd China Manufacturer of aero engine parts Ordinary 49 49 Xian XR Aero Components Co Limited China Manufacturer of aero engine parts Ordinary 49 49 Airtanker Holdings Limited England Strategic tanker aircraft PFI project Ordinary 20 20 Airtanker Services Limited England Provision of aftermarket services for Ordinary 22 22 strategic tanker aircraft Alpha Partners Leasing Limited England Aero engine leasing A ordinary 100 50 Genistics Holdings Limited England Trailer-mounted field mobile generator sets A ordinary 100 50 Rolls-Royce Snecma Limited England Aero engine collaboration B shares 100 50 TRT Limited England Aero engine turbine blade repair services B ordinary 100 49.5 Turbine Surface Technologies Limited England Aero engine turbine surface coatings B ordinary 100 50 Turbo-Union Limited England RB199 engine collaboration Ordinary 40 40 A shares 37.5 EPI Europrop International GmbH Germany A400M engine collaboration Ordinary 28 28 effective group interest held 35.5% EUROJET Turbo GmbH Germany EJ200 engine collaboration Ordinary 33 33 effective group interest held 39% MTU, Turbomeca, Rolls-Royce GmbH Germany MTR390 engine collaboration Ordinary 33.3 33.3 N3 Engine Overhaul Services GmbH & Co KG Germany Aero engine repair and overhaul Ordinary 50 50 Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited Hong Kong Aero engine repair and overhaul Ordinary 45 45 International Aerospace Manufacturing Private India Manufacturer of aero engine parts Ordinary 50 50 Limited Techjet Aerofoils Limited Israel Manufacturer of aero engine parts A ordinary 50 50 B ordinary 50 International Engine Component Overhaul Pte Singapore Aero engine repair and overhaul Ordinary 50 50 Limited Singapore Aero Engine Services Private Limited Singapore Aero engine repair and overhaul Ordinary 30 30 effective group interest 39% Industria fide Turbo Propulsores SA Spain Aero engine component manufacture Ordinary 46.9 46.9 and maintenance Alpha Leasing US LLC, Alpha Leasing US No.
2 US Aero engine leasing Partnerships 50 LLC, Alpha Leasing US No.
4 LLC, Alpha Leasing no equity US No.
6 LLC, Alpha held Leasing US No.
8 LLC, Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance US LLC, Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance US No.
2 LLC Exostar LLC US Business to business internet exchange Partnership 18.5 no equity held LG Fuel Cell Systems Inc.
US Development of fuel cells Common 32 32 Stock Texas Aero Engine Services, LLC US Aero engine repair and overhaul Partnership 50 no equity held UNINCORPORATED Light Helicopter Turbine Engine Company LHTEC US T800 engine development and market Partnership 50 no equity held 153
