Other Information ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOREIGN EXCHANGE ii accounting rules require certain income and costs relating to our commercial activities to be eliminated from, or added Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income to, the aggregate of all the profits of the Group companies when statement, the cash flow and closing net cash balance.
The average preparing the consolidated income statement consolidation and spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are adjustments : and shown in the table below: iii specific tax rules including exemptions or incentives as 2014 2013 Change determined by the tax laws in each country.
Year end spot rate 1.56 1.65 -5% USD per GBP The Groups total corporation tax payments in 2014 were Average spot rate 1.65 1.56 6% 276million.
The level of tax paid in each country is impacted Year end spot rate 1.28 1.20 7% EUR per GBP by the above.
In most cases, i and ii are only a matter of timing Average spot rate 1.24 1.18 5% and therefore tax will be paid in an earlier or later year.
As a result they only have a negligible impact on the Groups underlying tax THE GROUPS APPROACH TO MANAGING ITS TAX AFFAIRS rate which, excluding joint ventures, would be 25.5% the underlying The Board is involved in setting the Groups tax policies which tax rate including joint ventures can be found on page29.
This is govern the way its tax affairs are managed.
In summary, this means: due to deferred tax accounting, details of which can be found in i the Group manages its tax costs through maximising the note 5 to the Financial Statements.
The impact of iii will often be tax efficiency of business transactions.
This includes taking permanent depending on the relevant tax law.
advantage of available tax incentives and exemptions: INVESTMENTS AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ii this must be done in a way which is aligned with the Groups The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure commercial objectives and meets its legal obligations and to a rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure ethical standards: that they create shareholder value.
All major investments require iii the Group also has regard for the intention of the legislation Board approval.
concerned rather than just the wording itself: iv the Group is committed to building constructive working The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their relationships with tax authorities based on a policy of full life cycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life of disclosure in order to remove uncertainty in its business projects is performed on a regular basis.
transactions and to allow the authorities to review possible Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in risks: the original development programme to ensure that overall value v where appropriate and possible, the Group enters into is enhanced.
consultation with tax authorities to help shape proposed legislation and future tax policy: and FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT vi the Group seeks to price transactions between Group The Board has established a structured approach to financial risk companies as if they were between unrelated parties, management.
The Financial risk committee Frc is accountable for in compliance with the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, currency, interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating THE GROUPS GLOBAL CORPORATE INCOME TAX CONTRIBUTION risks outlined in more depth in note 17.
The Frc is chaired by the Around 95% of the Groups underlying profit before tax excluding Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has a comprehensive financial joint ventures is generated in the UK, US, Germany, Norway, Finland risk policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to and Singapore.
The remaining profits are generated across more manage and hedge business operations risks that arise from than 40 other countries.
This reflects the fact that the majority of movements in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
the Groups business is undertaken, and employees are based, in the The Groups policy is not to engage in speculative financial above countries.
The Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key In common with most multinational groups, the total of all profits risks and agree any mitigating actions required.
in respect of which corporate tax is paid is not the same as the consolidated profit before tax reported on page 95.
The main reasons for this are: i the consolidated income statement is prepared under Adopted IFRS whereas tax is paid on the profits of each Group company, which are determined by local accounting rules: 160 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Other Information CAPITAL STRUCTURE CREDIT RATING million 2014 2013 Rating Outlook Grade Total equity 6,387 6,303 Moodys Investors Service A3 Stable Investment Cash flow hedges 81 68 Standard & Poors A Stable Investment Group capital 6,468 6,371 The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Net funds 666 1,939 Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank At 31 December 2014, the Group maintained investment grade borrowings, bonds and notes.
The capital structure of the Group ratings from both agencies.
reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments of fundingrequired.
to our customers, the Group attaches significant importance to maintaining or improving the current investment grade Funding is secured by the Groups continued access to the global credit ratings.
Borrowings are funded in various currencies using derivatives where appropriate to achieve a required currency and ACCOUNTING interest rate profile.
The Boards objective is to retain sufficient The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in financial investments and undrawn facilities to ensure that the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Group can both meet its medium-term operational commitments IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
and cope with unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
With effect from 1 January 2014, the Group has adopted IFRS 10 The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
The impact of these liquidity risk.
and other changes to IFRS which have not been adopted in 2014 is included within the accounting policies in note 1.
During the year, the Group repaid a 200 million EIB loan.
At year end, the Group retained aggregate liquidity of 4.1billion.
SHARE PRICE This liquidity included net funds of 666 million and aggregate During the year, the share price decreased by 32% from 1275pence borrowing facilities of 3.5billion, of which 1.3billion remained to 870 pence, compared to a 12% decrease in the FTSE aerospace undrawn.
and defence sector and 3% decrease in the FTSE 100.
The Companys share price ranged from 1289pence in January to 779.5 pence The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed in October.
to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context of the business and market conditions.
The only facility to mature in 2015 is a US$83 million note.
There are no rating triggers in any borrowing facility that would require the facility to be accelerated or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups credit rating.
The Group conducts some of its business through a number of joint ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these joint ventures is secured on the assets of the respective companies and is nonrecourse to the Group.
This debt is further outlined in note 11.
