FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide of our audit controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 30 components.
22 components were subject to a full scope audit and audit procedures were performed on key account balances at the other 8 locations where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
84% 8% 92% Revenue Profit before tax 16% The 30 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups four reportable segments across 12 countries and account for 84% of the Groups revenues, 92% of profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality ranging from 2.3m to 3.3m.
Due to the significance of the 22 components operations subject to full scope audits to the group audit, senior members of the group audit team designed and implemented a programme to visit the components.
We consider the United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America and China to be key components and we visited these locations in the current year.
Our plan is that we will visit these each year.
As part of our first year audit we also visited components in Australia, Canada, Germany and Spain.
We plan to include these locations in our rotational visit programme going forward.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team also discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining locations where full audits were completed, we discuss audit findings with the relevant component audit team, review audit working papers in relation to key issues and discuss key matters with divisional management where considered necessary in forming our group audit opinion.
In relation to the locations which were subject to an audit of key account balances, we discuss the results of these businesses and accounting matters arising through our involvement in divisional meetings with management.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining 24 components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
None of these components represented more than 2% of revenue or profit before taxation individually.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
