Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131 Explanatory notes to the resolutions Resolution 1: To Receive and Adopt the Report and Accounts The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM will begin with a resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the reports of the directors and auditor, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2014 is available on the Companys website www.
com and copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolution 2: To Approve the Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders will be requested to approve the Directors remuneration report excluding the Directors remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Directors remuneration report is set out in full on pages 49 to 62 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Alternatively, the Directors remuneration report is obtainable on request from the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company, or from the Companys website.
This is an advisory vote and does not affect the directors entitlement to remuneration in the future.
Resolution 3: To Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy In accordance with new regulations under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors remuneration policy which is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 53 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
This vote is a binding vote and, subject to limited exceptions, no remuneration payment or loss of office payment may be made to a prospective, current or former director unless consistent with the approved remuneration policy or otherwise specifically approved by shareholders.
If the Directors remuneration policy is approved by shareholders, all payments made to the directors and any past directors by the Company must be made in accordance with the policy unless approved by a separate shareholder resolution.
If approved, the policy will take immediate effect.
This resolution should be put to the shareholders at least every three years as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 4: To Declare a Final Dividend The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.5p per ordinary share on 24 January 2014.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per ordinary share bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.5p per ordinary share.
If Resolution 4 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 will be paid on 5 September 2014 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 8 August 2014.
Resolutions 5 to 12: Re-election and Election of Directors of the Company Resolutions 5 to 12 are concerned with the re-election and election of directors at this years AGM.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director who was a director at the two preceding AGMs and who was not appointed or reappointed by the Company in general meeting at or since either such meeting, shall retire from office.
Retiring directors are eligible for re-election.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Consequently, all the directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for reelection on an individual basis at the AGM.
The Companys Articles of Association permit any director appointed by the Board since the date of the last AGM to hold office only until the date of the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
L Drummond and G S Wong have been appointed by the Board as non-executive directors with effect from 16 July 2014 and being eligible, submit themselves for election at the AGM and annually thereafter.
The biographical details for each director and other relevant information can be found on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Details of the directors service contracts or terms of appointment are described in the Directors remuneration report on page 53 and the performance evaluation procedure is described in the Corporate governance report on page 47 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Following individual formal performance evaluation by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director, the Board confirms that the performance of each director submitting themselves for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and recommends them for re-election.
The knowledge and experience and contribution made by each director to the Board is set out below: J R P Pike, Chairman, has made a significant contribution to the Group as a result of his experience in strategic and operational improvement and development in a range of UK and international businesses and through his effective leadership of the Board.
I Haaijer, independent non-executive director, makes a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of her management and relevant international business and market experience.
S Rojahn, independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, makes a valuable contribution to the Board through his engineering and management expertise and his experience in industry in Europe as well as in emerging markets including China, India and Latin America.
M G Towers, Senior Independent Director, is a chartered accountant with extensive financial and managerial experience as finance director of a variety of businesses and has made a considerable contribution to the Company in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
132 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Explanatory notes to the resolutions continued P R M Vervaat, Chief Executive, joined the Board in 2007 with experience in various financial roles in the Netherlands, UK, Germany and Belgium.
He acceded to the role of Chief Executive on 1 May 2013.
He has strong strategic, business improvement and financial skills and has been instrumental in the formulation and the implementation of the Groups Vision 2020 strategy.
S J Kesterton, Group Finance Director, who joined the Board on 1 April 2013 makes a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of his financial and commercial skills gained from operating in a competitive international manufacturing environment.
He has extensive experience in leading acquisitions and has taken a leading role in the negotiations and due diligence for the acquisition of Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd.
The processes followed for the selection of L Drummond and G S Wong as non-executive directors can be found in the Nomination Committee section of the Corporate governance report on pages 45 and 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Both new directors will undergo an induction programme over the course of the coming months.
Their biographical details can be found on page 41 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and the knowledge, experience and contribution that each director is expected to make to the Board is set out below: L Drummond, independent non-executive director, has experience in the pharmaceutical sector and in investment banking which will be of great benefit to the Company as it aims to implement the Vision 2020 Focused Growth strategy including the development of the Groups pharmaceutical presence.
G S Wong, non-executive director, was a director and adviser to Ace Corporation Holdings Limited until it was acquired by RPC Group on 2 June 2014.
His knowledge of doing business in China and broad international experience will help the Company in developing its presence outside Europe.
Your Board recommends their election as directors of the Company.
Resolution 13: To Reappoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor The auditor must be appointed at every AGM at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
KPMG LLP has advised its willingness to stand for reappointment as the auditor of the Company.
The Board recommends their reappointment following recommendation by the Audit Committee which has conducted an evaluation of the auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
Resolution 14: To Authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors remuneration Shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the directors of the Company to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 15: Authority to Allot Shares The directors of the Company may allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last AGM is due to expire at this years AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares.
If given, these authorities will expire at the AGM in 2015 or on 30 September 2015, whichever is the earlier.
Paragraph a of Resolution 15 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 3,127,025, representing one third of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 6 June 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the ABI, paragraph b of Resolution 15 will also allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a of Resolution 15, further ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,254,051, representing approximately two thirds 66.67 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 6 June 2014.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary shares to fulfil the Companys obligations under its various employee share option schemes.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the ABI.
As at 6 June 2014 the Company holds no treasury shares.
Resolution 16: Notice of General Meetings other than Annual General Meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is at least 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days AGMs must be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Previously, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on at least 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 16 seeks the necessary shareholder approval which will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133 Resolution 17: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The directors of the Company also require additional authority from the shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings.
Resolution 17 seeks to renew the authority granted to the directors, at the AGM held on 10 July 2013, to allot securities of the Company up to a specified amount in connection with a rights issue without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion, and also to allot a smaller number of these for cash or to sell treasury shares without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
The number of shares which may be issued for cash under the latter authority will not exceed an aggregate nominal amount of 469,053, being approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 6 June 2014 the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice.
In addition, the number of shares which may be issued for cash other than to existing shareholders, will not exceed 7.5% of the Companys total issued share capital in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
If given, the authority to disapply pre-emption rights will terminate not later than 30 September 2015.
Resolution 18: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares The directors consider that there may be circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Although the directors have no plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
Under Article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association, authority is granted to the Company to purchase its own shares subject to the provision of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 18 proposes that the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company be renewed by special resolution.
The authority will terminate not later than 30 September 2015.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 18,762,154 shares which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 6 June 2014.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in this resolution.
The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they may either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or retained as treasury shares.
The Companies Act 2006 enable companies to hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 18 as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share targets would be adjusted for any reduction in issued share capital.
