Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 177 Administration SABMiller plc Registrar United Kingdom Incorporated in England and Wales Registration No.
3528416 Equiniti Aspect House General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Spencer Road John Davidson Lancing Registered office West Sussex SABMiller House BN99 6DA Church Street West Telephone 0871 384 2395 Woking calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras Surrey, England Overseas telephone 44 121 415 7047 outside UK GU21 6HS www.
co. uk Head office Registrar South Africa One Stanhope Gate Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited London, England 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg W1K 1AF PO Box 61051 Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 Marshalltown 2107 South Africa Internet address Telephone 27 11 370 5000 www.
com United States ADR Depositary Investor relations J. P. Morgan Depositary Bank Telephone 44 20 7659 0100 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, Floor 58 Email: investor.
com New York, NY 10005 Sustainable development U.
com Independent auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 1 Embankment Place London, England WC2N 6RH Telephone 44 20 7583 5000 Cautionary statement This document does not constitute an offer to sell or issue forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are or the solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire ordinary shares based on numerous assumptions regarding the companys present in the capital of SABMiller plc the company or any other and future business strategies and the environment in which the securities of the company or its subsidiaries or associates in any company will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investmentactivity.
speak only as at the date of this document.
Factors which may cause differences between actual results and those expected or implied by This document is intended to provide information to shareholders.
the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: material It should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other adverse changes in the economic and business conditions in the purpose.
This document includes forward-looking statements markets in which SABMiller operates: increased competition and with respect to certain of SABMiller plcs plans, current goals and consolidation in the global brewing and beverages industry: changes expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance in consumer preferences: changes to the regulatory environment: and results.
These statements contain the words anticipate, failure to deliver the integration and cost-saving objectives in relation believe, intend, estimate, expect and words of similar meaning.
to the Fosters acquisition: failure to derive the expected benefits from All statements other than statements of historical facts included in the global efficiency programmes: and fluctuations in foreign currency this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the exchange rates and interest rates.
companys financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations including development plans The company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking and objectives relating to the companys products and services are to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve statements contained herein to reflect any change in the companys known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The past of the company to be materially different from future results, business and financial performance of SABMiller plc is not to be relied performance or achievements expressed or implied by such on as an indication of its future performance.
The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, all ofwhich is Designed by sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed inthe UK by CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral company.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Registered office SABMiller House Church Street West Woking Surrey England GU21 6HS Telephone 44 1483 26400 www.
