174 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Definitions Group net producer revenue NPR Financial definitions This comprises group revenue less excise duties and other similar Adjusted earnings taxes, together with the groups share of excise duties and other Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings as similar taxes from associates and joint ventures.
defined below for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding Headline earnings computer software, exceptional integration and restructuring costs, Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the financial the fair value movements in relation to capital items for which hedge period attributable to owners of the parent for items in accordance accounting cannot be applied and other items which have been with the South African Circular 2 2013 entitled Headline Earnings.
treated as exceptional but not included above or as headline earnings Such items include impairments of non-current assets and profits or adjustments together with the groups share of associates and joint losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related tax and ventures adjustments for similar items.
The tax and non-controlling non-controlling interests.
This also includes the groups share of interests in respect of these items are also adjusted.
associates and joint ventures adjustments on a similar basis.
Adjusted EBITDA Interest cover This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation This is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
and amortisation, and includes the groups share of MillerCoors operating profit on a similar basis.
Net debt This comprises gross debt including borrowings, financing derivative Adjusted net finance costs financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of cash and This comprises net finance costs excluding fair value movements in cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied and any exceptional finance charges or income.
Organic information Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results Adjusted profit before tax and volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the and volumes relating to disposals.
groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs on a similar basis.
Total Shareholder Return TSR TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided Constant currency for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming Constant currency results have been determined by translating the reinvestment of dividends.
local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at the exchange rates for the prior year.
Sales volumes In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group EBITA aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and This comprises operating profit before exceptional items and its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating although revenue from contract brewing is included within group profit on a similar basis.
Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure EBITA margin % of volumes is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group net alcoholic beverage volumes and beverage volumes and is used in the producer revenue.
segmental analyses as it more closely aligns with the consolidated group net producer revenue and EBITA disclosures.
EBITDA This comprises EBITA as defined above plus depreciation and amortisation of computer software, including the groups share KPI definitions how we measure of associates and joint ventures depreciation and amortisation of computer software.
Total Shareholder Return TSR in excess of the median of peer group over five-year periods 2012: three-year periods EBITDA margin % TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of group our TSR over the five-year period 2012: three-year period to the date net producer revenue.
aligned with the related measurement date of performance share Effective tax rate % awards for the excom, and deducting the percentage growth in the The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on TSR of the median of our peer group over the same period.
exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS computer software, including the groups share of associates and Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted EPS for joint ventures tax on a similar basis, as a percentage of adjusted profit the current year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is measured before tax.
using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in Free cash flow issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition above.
This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less cash Free cash flow paid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible Free cash flow is measured using the definition above.
assets, net investments in existing associates and joint ventures in both cases only where there is no change in the groups effective Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which ownership percentage and dividends paid to non-controlling interests we have no.
2 national market share positions plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or and intangible assets and dividends received.
number two national beer market share position divided by total lager volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as defined above.
Group revenue This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue from associates and joint ventures.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 175 Proportion of group EBITA from developing economies KPI explanation of changes EBITA generated in developing economies divided by group EBITA To align with the revised metrics adopted during the year, in our KPI before corporate costs.
Developing definitions we have replaced revenue with net producer revenue, economies are as defined by the International Monetary Fund IMF.
group revenue with group NPR and used group NPR, rather than Organic growth in lager volumes group revenue, as the denominator in the calculation of EBITA margin.
Organic growth in lager volumes is measured by comparing lager As a result of these changes we do not have full three-year history for volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effects certain of the revised KPIs as the definitional changes were only of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page applied from 2012 and not in earlier years.
Lager volumes are measured as defined on page 174.
Group net producer revenue growth organic, constant Non-financial definitions currency Growth in group net producer revenue compared with the prior year is Corporate Governance Code measured on a constant currency basis as defined on page 174 and The UK Corporate Governance Code, as adopted by the Financial excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information Reporting Council.
Group net producer revenue is defined Direct economic value generated on page 174.
Revenue plus interest and dividend receipts, royalty income and Net producer revenue growth in premium brands proceeds of sales of assets in accordance with guidance by the constant currency Global Reporting Initiative GRI EC1.
Growth in subsidiary net producer revenue from sales of premium Economy segment brands compared with the prior year is measured on a constant Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the currency basis as defined on page 174.
Premium brands are those standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which in the premium segment as defined below.
fall below an index of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all EBITA growth organic, constant currency brands in this segment will be local brands.
EBITA growth compared with the prior year is measured on a constant International brewers index currency basis as defined on page 174 and excluding the effects of The index of international brewers charts the share price progression acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 174. of the companys closest peers in the global brewing industry EBITA is defined on page 174.
Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, EBITA margin progression relative to 1 April 2010.
The index is weighted relative to the market EBITA margin progression is measured by comparing the EBITA capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2010. margin in the year with that in the prior year.
EBITA margin is defined Mainstream segment on page 174.
Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the Hectolitres of water used at our breweries standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with per hl of lager produced a weighted average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Total water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager Mainstream brands tend to be local.
All consolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis PET together with the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which joint venture.
is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA per hl of lager produced Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which dioxide equivalent CO2e in kilograms released to the atmosphere have an index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium by our brewery operations divided by the volume of lager produced.
segment comprises local, regional and global brands.
The total amount of CO2e is the sum of direct emissions produced by the combustion of fuel e. g. coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from STRATE the use of electricity and steam.
Emissions are calculated using the STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic, an unlisted internationally recognised WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
All company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Depository consolidated businesses are included on a 100% basis together with Participants CSDP, which exists to allow share transactions in the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
South Africa to be settled electronically.
Accumulated financial benefits from our business capabilityprogramme Incremental cash flows generated as a result of the adoption of new processes and systems including incremental revenues, reduced cost of goods sold and overheads, reduced investment in working capital and lower cost of capital investments.
