Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting financial instruments asset 1.
Accounting policies and liability, is effective from 1 January 2014.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting, been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless is effective from 1 January 2014. otherwisestated.
IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements, is effective from 1January 2014. a Basis of preparation IAS 28 revised, Associates and joint ventures, is effective The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been from 1January 2014. prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, is effective from Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted 1January 2014. by the EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, is effective from 1 January 2014. reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, is effective The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost from 1January 2014.
1 convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial IFRIC 21, Levies, is effective from 1 January 2014. assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as The group has yet to assess the full impact of the following standards described in the accounting policies below.
The financial statements and amendments to existing standards mandatory for the groups have been prepared on a going concern basis.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2015 or later periods, The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS which have not been early adopted.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits, on defined benefit requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 1 plans, is effective from 1 July 2014. applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS38, from those estimates.
Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation, is effective 1 b Recent accounting developments from 1 January 2016.
1 i New standards, amendments and interpretations of existing Annual improvements to IFRS 2012 are effective from 1July 2014.
1 standards adopted by the group Annual improvements to IFRS 2013 are effective from 1July 2014.
1 The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2018. adopted by the group as of 1 April 2013.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, is effective from 1 1 January 2017.
Amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The adoption of this 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
revised standard retrospectively from 1 April 2013 has resulted in the interest charge on retirement benefit liabilities and the expected c Significant judgements and estimates return on plan assets being replaced by a net interest charge on In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often net defined benefit liabilities based on high quality corporate bond required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting rates.
This net charge is included within operating costs.
Further estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or details of these adjustments are provided in note 28. net position of the group, should it later be determined that a different Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation.
The choice be more appropriate.
adoption of this amendment has resulted in changes to the presentation of certain items within other comprehensive income Management considers the following to be areas of significant in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, on and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
asset and liability offsetting introduced new disclosure requirements i Impairment reviews to facilitate comparison between entities that prepare IFRS financial Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the statements to those that prepare financial statements in relevant cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect accordance with US GAAP.
The additional disclosures are included of the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly in note 23. if events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
This new standard provides on future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost of a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure capital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated requirements.
It does not require restatement of historical applying a long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows which are information.
The additional disclosures required by this standard based on business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the are included in note 21. discount rates used are dependent on management estimates and Annual improvements to IFRS 2009-11.
The application of the annual judgements.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in improvements has had no material impact on the consolidated these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse results of operations or financial position of the group.
impact on the results and net position of the group.
Details of the Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on recoverable estimates used in the impairment reviews for the year are set out amount disclosures.
This amendment clarified the disclosure in note10.
requirements in relation to impairment testing of goodwill.
There has been no material impact on the group.
ii Taxation The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by early adopted by the group its nature complex, and cannot be finally determined until a formal The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority which may standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on take several years to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based or after 1 April 2014 are not expected to have a material impact on the on managements interpretation of country specific tax laws and the consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided which could have a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position of the group.
100 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or 1.
Accounting policies continued indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power iii Pension and post-retirement benefits of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or balance sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether income statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance this power is actually exercised.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results based on assumptions determined by management which include of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective discount rates, salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is and mortality rates.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the note 31.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the net extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
position of the group and future results.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income iv Property, plant and equipment and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual of the asset transferred.
values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any changes that could affect prospective depreciation charges and Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory balance asset carrying values.
These are consolidated using management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys v Business combinations balance sheet date.
On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the useful ii Associates life of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired is Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest performed, which requires the application of management judgement.
and over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, Future events could cause the assumptions used by the group to where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and change which could have a significant impact on the results and operating policies of the entity.
net position of the group.
The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory balance sheet date vi Exceptional items of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous which have been determined by management as being material by 31December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent their size or incidence and are presented separately within the results period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the of the group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
exceptional items will affect the presentation of profit measures iii Joint ventures including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has degree of judgement.
Details relating to exceptional items reported entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic activity during the year are set out in note 4. that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed d Segmental reporting sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only when the Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the activity and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the control.
on group net producer revenue and EBITA by the groups chief The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of operating decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
The associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity group is focused geographically, and while not meeting the definition method from the date significant influence or joint control commences of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
South Africa: Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before taxation in e Basis of consolidation the income statement and its share of associates and joint ventures SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated equity movements as one line entries under each of items of other in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary, and items of other comprehensive income that may be reclassified associate and joint venture entities owned by the company.
to profit or loss, in the statement of comprehensive income.
i Subsidiaries When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating in the associate or joint venture, the group only provides for additional policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share joint venture.
Where the investment in an associate or joint venture is attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences until the date control ceases.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 101 The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the 1.
Accounting policies continued average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have iv Transactions with non-controlling interests been weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions groupsbusinesses.
with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from non-controlling ii Transactions and balances interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the The financial statements for each group company have been relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity where there at the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign is no loss of control.
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the v Reduction in interests balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being When the group ceases to have control, joint control or significant included in operating profit in the income statement other than those influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously classified as available for sale assets are included in other recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity comprehensive income.
are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures assets or liabilities.
This may mean that certain amounts previously One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies orloss.
other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items influence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are the carrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit All translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of or loss where appropriate.
opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised f Foreign exchange as a separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets i Foreign exchange translation include loans between group companies that form part of the net Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The related exchange differences in equity are reclassified to the income consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
The key exchange rates to the US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements were Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a asfollows.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 iv Hyperinflationary economies In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of Average rate operations into US dollars, adjustments are made to local currency Australian dollar AUD 1.07 0.97 denominated non-monetary assets, liabilities, income statement Colombian peso COP 1,920 1,796 and equity accounts to reflect the changes in purchasing power.
Czech koruna CZK 19.68 19.65 South Sudan was considered to be a hyperinflationary economy Euro 0.75 0.78 in the years ended 31 March 2013 and 2014.
The effect of inflation Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.77 2.61 accounting in South Sudan for the years ended 31 March 2013 Polish zloty PLN 3.15 3.26 and 2014 was not material.
South African rand ZAR 10.13 8.51 Turkish lira TRY 1.98 1.80 Closing rate Australian dollar AUD 1.08 0.96 Colombian peso COP 1,965 1,832 Czech koruna CZK 19.90 20.07 Euro 0.73 0.78 Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.81 2.59 Polish zloty PLN 3.03 3.26 South African rand ZAR 10.53 9.24 Turkish lira TRY 2.14 1.81 102 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed 1.
Accounting policies continued for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is g Business combinations recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
i Subsidiaries The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the The identifiable net assets including intangibles are incorporated into associate or joint venture.
the financial statements on the basis of their fair value from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired h Intangible assets during the financial year are included in the groups results from Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation thatdate.
on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to generated intangibles are not recognised except for computer software the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar and applied development costs referred to under computer software obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows and research and development below.
to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the a triggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or rates and residual values to take account of any changes in assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups circumstances.
The directors assessment of the useful life of estimate of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the the durability of the products to which the asset attaches and business combination is achieved in stages and results in a change the expected future impact of competition on the business.
in control, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the i Brands acquisition date through profit or loss.
Where the business Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost a long-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title that is contingent on future events, the consideration transferred is clear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
On an acquisition by Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held acquisition basis, the group recognises any non-controlling interest the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests the group has exclusive rights to those brands, up to a maximum of proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
ii Associates and joint ventures ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures is of a business combination recorded initially at cost.
Subsequently, the carrying amount is Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor increased or decreased to recognise the groups share of the licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at associates and joint ventures income and expenses after the a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with an date of acquisition.
assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be Fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
attributed to the groups share of identifiable assets including Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised as of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
part of a business combination The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists The date significant influence or joint control commences is not and distributor relationships.
These are recognised as intangible necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream in the contract.
attributable to these lists or relationships.
iii Goodwill Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the In respect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the incomestatement.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 103 iii Returnable containers 1.
Accounting policies continued Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, iv Computer software plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item impairment loss.
of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write intangible asset.
the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis typically undertaken in a two-stage process: of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of one associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally to 10years.
generated software products controlled by the group that will Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development to write off the deposit value over the expected container design employment costs including those of contractors used, capitalised period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the interest and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised inception of a container design.
This period is shortened where computer software, licence and development costs are amortised appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
the entity to use containers for different brands.
Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer iv Depreciation software programmes are expensed as incurred.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course v Research and development of construction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, Research and general development expenditure is written off in the depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to period in which it is incurred.
write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows.
Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, Freehold buildings 20 50 years separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, term or 50 years expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a Returnable containers non-returnable 1 14 years straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
containers are recorded as inventory i Property, plant and equipment Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated or life of the asset depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes is probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific into account are the expected rate of technological developments, asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement at which the assets are expected to be used.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between i Assets in the course of construction the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any v Capitalisation of borrowing costs impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these the period of development or construction that necessarily take a assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are appropriate category.
At this point, depreciation commences on the capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, ii Assets held under finance leases restaurants, bars and clubs Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant period value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at to which the customer commitment is made typically three to five inception of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairmentlosses.
term or their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
The is included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where interest element of the lease obligations is charged to the income there are specific marketing activities commitments the amortisation statement over the period of the lease term to reflect a constant is included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired financialperiod.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on similar assets.
104 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued a.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities 1.
Accounting policies continued Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial k Inventories instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, thefuture.
These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
the host contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct a derivative if it is freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency FIFO basis.
exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for matured qualifying cash flow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
local transactions in an economic environment.
l Financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the depending on when they are expected to mature.
case of those classified at fair value through profit or loss.
For those financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in at each balance sheet date.
See note x for the groups accounting policy on hedge accounting.
Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity ii Loans and receivables instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments for impairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial amounts owed by associates, amounts owed by joint ventures liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is trade, accrued income and cash and cash equivalents.
Trade receivables If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and of financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial impairment.
assets and liabilities are offset.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in costs over the life of the instrument.
There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents These are described as follows: In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other profit or loss short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or months or less.
In the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and loss include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown as effective hedging instruments.
within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in the income statement.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 105 An impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired 1.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the iii Available for sale investments impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial assets on a pro-rata basis.
assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill in fair value including any related foreign exchange movements areirreversible.
are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on may not be fully recoverable.
which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale investments have expired or have been transferred and the group Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs of disposal.
iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, Such assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will accruals, amounts owed to associates, amounts owed to joint be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued ventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in a.
Trade payables its present condition and when management is committed to the sale Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade one year from date of classification.
payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to o Provisions settle will be realised.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable b.
Borrowings that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the costs, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer The carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to hedge the movement is recognised in the income statement within net accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown financecosts.
within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash and cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are recognised for onerous m Impairment contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale see p Share capital note n, and deferred tax assets see note u.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
of the non-current asset with its recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
The fair value q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held by less costs of disposal is considered to be the amount that could be employee benefit trusts obtained on disposal of the asset.
Value in use is determined by Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the use of the cash generating unit CGU using a post-tax discount rate, shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
as this closely approximates applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement cash flows.
Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax as a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is shares for treasury within net cash from financing activities.
reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the the companys equity shareholders.
recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of assets that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
106 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued u Taxation 1.
Accounting policies continued The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
r Revenue recognition Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it i Sale of goods and services relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive or receivable for goods and services provided to third parties income or directly in equity, respectively.
and is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted are substantially transferred.
for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because, unlike current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
is not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect in excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets group cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost statements, except where the temporary difference arises from to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any goodwill in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial excise that is recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
recognition other than a business combination of other assets Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate taxableprofit.
amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products of a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the full on temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, exception that these are included within other income.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable ii Interest income that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective This includes taxation in respect of the retained earnings of overseas interest method.
subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, When a receivable is impaired, the group reduces the carrying amount dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash to distribute past earnings in future periods has been entered into by flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also recognised in respect of the discount as interest income.
the unremitted retained earnings of overseas associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine when such earnings iii Royalty income will be remitted and when such additional tax such as withholding Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with taxes might be payable.
the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore iv Dividend income recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which established.
the temporary differences including carried forward tax losses s Operating leases can beutilised.
Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse lease term.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively t Exceptional items enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are non-discounted basis.
material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as v Dividend distributions exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates and joint ventures the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim net finance costs and tax exceptional items are only referred to in dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, obligation at the balance sheet date.
excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
w Employee benefits The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a i Wages and salaries headline and adjusted basis.
The adjusted earnings per share figure Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding income statement as the employees services are rendered.
computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial pay when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits statements.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance arepaid.
with the South African Circular 2 2013 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 107 v Pension obligations 1.
Accounting policies continued The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent discount rates determined by reference to local high quality actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
to the terms of the related pension liability.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion outside the income statement and are charged or credited to equity of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
iv Share-based compensation Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as compensation plans.
an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are The equity-settled plans comprise share option and stock recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid appreciation rights plans with and without market performance contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash conditions attached, performance share award plans with market refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
performance conditions attached and awards related to the employee vi Other post-employment obligations element of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits scheme in South Africa.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are value of each award granted after 7November 2002 over the vesting assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected share awards that will eventually vest.
A corresponding adjustment is service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The estimate of the and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
In addition the the income statement and are charged or credited to equity in other group has granted an equity-settled share-based payment to retailers comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
These in relation to the retailer element of the BBBEE scheme.
A one-off obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
charge has been recognised based on the fair value at the grant date with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The charge will not be vii Termination benefits adjusted in the future.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed Monte Carlo simulations.
to terminating the employment of current employees according to a The charges are not reversed if the options, rights and awards are not detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage option price at the date of grant.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value in The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction a similar manner to all long-term employee benefits.
costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit For cash-settled plans a liability is recognised at fair value in the or loss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative balance sheet over the vesting period with a corresponding charge instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging to the income statement.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange, commodity price and date, on an actuarial basis using the analytic method, to reflect the interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency revised fair value and to adjust for changes in assumptions such as swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts leavers.
Changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the and other specific instruments as necessary under the approval of the income statement.
Actual settlement of the liability will be at its board.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of intrinsic value with the difference recognised in the income statement.
an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has derivatives embedded in other contracts, primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
108 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly 1.
Accounting policies continued effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only reclassified to the income statement upon disposal of the net investment.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document at inception the relationship between the hedged item Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassified to the income the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end to ensure that future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The group designates certain derivatives as: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitments cash hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not investment hedge.
qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or i Fair value hedges issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest y Deposits by customers rate risk and foreign exchange risk to which the fair value of certain Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in in the period incurred.
the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers is shown Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly inprovisions.
effective are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
z Earnings per share Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities ii Cash flow hedges after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary rate risk to which the cash flows of certain assets and liabilities are shares held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury exposed.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the during the year.
derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent, accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares a forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the held in the groups employee benefit trusts and in treasury during the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity are year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 109 2.
Segmental analysis Operating segments reflect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based on group NPR and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and, while not meeting the definition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments South Africa: Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
The segmental information presented below includes the reconciliation of GAAP measures presented on the face of the income statement to non-GAAP measures which are used by management to analyse the groups performance.
Income statement Group Group NPR EBITA NPR EBITA 1 2014 2014 2013 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,745 2,192 5,802 2,112 Europe 4,574 703 4,300 784 North America 4,665 797 4,656 740 Africa 3,424 939 3,290 838 Asia Pacific 3,944 845 4,005 854 South Africa: 4,367 1,138 4,879 1,253 Beverages 3,997 1,015 4,475 1,119 Hotels and Gaming 370 123 404 134 Corporate 161 202 26,719 6,453 26,932 6,379 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software group and share of associates and joint ventures 436 483 Exceptional items in operating profit group and share of associates and joint ventures 202 205 Net finance costs group and share of associates and joint ventures excluding exceptional items 741 770 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 162 164 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 89 78 Profit before taxation 4,823 4,679 1 As restated see note 28.
Group revenue and group NPR including the groups share of associates and joint ventures With the exception of South Africa: Hotels and Gaming, all reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of beverages.
Revenues are derived from a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed, with no customers being individually material.
Segmental analysis continued Operating profit and EBITA segment result The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit to operating profit before exceptional items, and to EBITA.
EBITA comprises operating profit before exceptional items, and amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating profit before exceptional items 1,578 1,504 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items in operating profit 5 5 Share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs 96 44 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 162 164 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 89 78 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,226 1,213 1 As restated see note 28.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 111 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITDA EBITA is reconciled to EBITDA as follows.
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA comprised the following.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Subsidiaries EBITDA 5,720 5,705 Operating profit before exceptional items 4,439 4,392 Depreciation including amortisation of computer software 920 919 Amortisation excluding computer software 361 394 Groups share of MillerCoors EBITDA 919 859 Operating profit before exceptional items 746 690 Depreciation including amortisation of computer software 131 126 Amortisation excluding computer software 42 43 Adjusted EBITDA 6,639 6,564 1 As restated see note 28.
Other segmental information Capital Capital expenditure expenditure excluding excluding investment Investment investment Investment ac t iv it y ac t iv i t y Total activity activit y Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 413 88 325 528 528 Europe 252 252 216 216 North America 1 188 189 272 272 Africa 416 42 458 391 29 420 Asia Pacific 96 201 297 88 78 10 South Africa: Beverages 247 247 228 228 Corporate 60 1 61 28 5 23 1,485 344 1,829 1,479 218 1,697 Capital expenditure includes additions of intangible assets excluding goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
I nvestment activity includes acquisitions and disposals of businesses, net investments in associates and joint ventures, purchases of shares in non-controlling interests and purchases and disposals of available for sale investments.
112 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Geographical information The UK is the parent companys country of domicile.
Those countries which account for more than 10% of the groups total revenue and or non-current assets are considered individually material and are reported separately below.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 113 3.
Net operating expenses 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,711 5,043 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 15 93 Raw materials and consumables used 4,726 4,950 Excise duties and other similar taxes 5,607 5,828 Employee costs see note 6a 2,491 2,704 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 854 867 Containers 233 226 Other 621 641 Net profit on disposal of businesses 72 79 Loss gain on dilution of investment in associates 18 4 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 13 Amortisation of intangible assets 427 450 Intangible assets excluding computer software 361 394 Computer software 66 56 Other expenses 4,431 4,561 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,468 2,582 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 324 333 Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of intangible assets 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 52 39 Impairment of trade and other receivables 30 23 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 81 64 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicles and systems 86 95 Research and development expenditure 4 4 Other operating expenses 1,378 1,410 Total net operating expenses by nature 18,450 19,383 Other income 381 362 Revenue received from royalties 51 55 Dividends received from investments 1 1 Other operating income 329 306 Net operating expenses 18,069 19,021 1 As restated see note 28.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a loss of US$32 million 2013: US$14 million.
114 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 3 2 Fees payable to companys auditor and its associates for other audit services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 7 9 Total audit fees payable to the companys auditor 10 11 Audit-related assurance services 1 Taxation compliance services 1 1 Taxation advisory services 2 1 Other non-audit services 1 Services relating to information technology 1 Other 1 1 Total fees payable to the companys auditor 14 16 Other audit firms Fees payable to other auditor firms for: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 1 1 Taxation advisory services 6 3 Internal audit services 4 1 Other non-audit services 1 Services relating to information technology 2 12 1 Other 35 12 Total fees payable to other audit firms 48 29 1 Consulting services principally relating to the capability programmes.
Exceptional items 2014 2013 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating profit: Net profit on disposal of businesses 72 79 Capability programme costs 133 141 Integration and restructuring costs 103 91 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges 33 17 Impairments 30 Net exceptional losses included within operating profit 197 200 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items: Capability programme costs 5 Impairments 5 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 5 5 Non-controlling interests share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 2 Groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 5 3 Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 27 20 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 115 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in operating profit Net profit on disposal of businesses During 2014 a net profit of US$47 million, after associated costs, was realised on the disposal of the milk and juice business in Panama, Latin America and an additional profit of US$25 million 2013: US$79 million was realised in Africa in relation to the disposal in 2012 of the groups Angolan operations in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola, following the successful resolution of certain matters leading to the release of provisions.
Capability programme costs The business capability programme streamlined finance, human resources and procurement activities through the deployment of global systems and introduced common sales, distribution and supply chain management systems.
Costs of US$79 million were incurred in the year 2013: US$141 million.
Costs of US$54 million 2013: US$nil were incurred in the year in relation to the new cost saving and efficiency programme which will build upon and extend what has been delivered under the business capability programme.
Integration and restructuring costs During 2014 US$103 million 2013: US$74 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Asia Pacific following the Fosters and Pacific Beverages acquisitions, including impairments relating to the closure of a brewery and the discontinuation of a brand.
In 2013 US$17 million of restructuring costs were incurred in South Africa: Beverages.
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment related charges In 2014 US$13 million 2013: US$17 million of charges have been incurred in relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
This represents the final year of IFRS 2 share-based payment charges in respect of the employee element of the scheme.
Additionally a US$20 million loss was incurred on the dilution of the groups investment in its associate, Distell Group Ltd, as a result of the exercise of share options issued as part of its BBBEE scheme.
Impairments In 2013 a US$30 million impairment charge was incurred in respect of the Vietnam business in Asia Pacific.
The impairment charge comprised US$11 million against goodwill and US$19 million against property, plant and equipment.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Capability programme costs During 2014 restructuring costs associated with the groups new cost saving programme were incurred in MillerCoors.
The groups share amounted to US$5 million.
Impairments In 2013 an impairment of a soft drinks plant in BIH Angola amounted to US$5 million.
After taking account of non-controlling interests, the groups share was US$3 million.
Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Net taxation credits of US$27 million 2013: US$20 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year and include US$2 million 2013: US$nil in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
Net finance costs 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m a.
Finance costs Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 110 183 Interest payable on derivatives 222 255 Interest payable on corporate bonds 647 677 Interest element of finance lease payments 3 1 Net fair value losses on financial instruments 34 2 Net exchange losses 23 Other finance charges 39 47 Total finance costs 1,055 1,186 b.
Finance income Interest receivable 24 39 Interest receivable on derivatives 338 355 3 Net fair value gains on financial instruments 62 Net exchange gains 36 Other finance income 12 4 Total finance income 410 460 Net finance costs 645 726 1 As restated see note 28.
2 In 2013: net gains of US$2 million were excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
3 In 2013: net gains of US$10 million were excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs were US$645 million 2013: US$738 million, restated.
Refer to note 21 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
116 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 2,063 2,163 Share-based payments 154 201 Social security costs 160 215 Pension costs 117 130 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 7 11 2,501 2,720 1 As restated see note 28.
Of the US$2,501 million employee costs shown above, US$10 million 2013: US$16 million has been capitalised within intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees is shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors.
2014 2013 Number Number Latin America 29,296 29,882 Europe 10,174 10,489 North America 97 82 Africa 13,236 12,652 Asia Pacific 5,113 5,128 South Africa 11,167 11,438 Corporate 864 815 69,947 70,486 c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2014 there were 25 2013: 26 key management.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 30 34 Post-employment benefits 2 2 Share-based payments 63 61 95 97 d. Directors 2014 2013 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 6,287,359 2013: 6,689,562 10 11 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or release of share awards 15 12 Notional contributions to unfunded retirement benefits scheme 626,955 2013: 767,000 1 1 26 24 1 Excludes gains made on share options exercised and share awards released posthumously.
At 31 March 2014 one director 2013: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes during the year amounted to 50,000 2013: 11,364.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 84.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 117 7.
Taxation 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Current taxation 1,096 1,118 Charge for the year 1,086 1,131 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 13 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 188 170 Total current taxation 1,284 1,288 Deferred taxation 111 96 Credit for the year 75 37 Adjustments in respect of prior years 36 5 Rate change 64 Taxation expense 1,173 1,192 Tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive loss is as follows: Deferred tax charge credit on net remeasurements of defined benefit plans 13 19 Deferred tax credit on financial instruments 1 6 12 25 Total current tax 1,284 1,288 Total deferred tax 99 121 Total taxation 1,185 1,167 Effective tax rate % 26.0 27.0 UK taxation included in the above Current taxation Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 102 133 Total current taxation 102 133 Deferred taxation 24 UK taxation expense 102 157 1 As restated see note 28.
See the financial definitions section for the definition of the effective tax rate.
The calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax on amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software was US$123 million 2013: US$135 million.
MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the taxable profits of MillerCoors and includes tax in other comprehensive income on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included within other comprehensive income.
Tax rate reconciliation 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 4,823 4,679 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,226 1,213 3,597 3,466 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 23% 2013: 24% 827 832 Exempt income 189 242 Other incentive allowances 28 20 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 24 157 Deferred tax asset not recognised 89 51 Initial recognition of deferred taxation 87 28 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 178 171 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 188 170 Other taxes 26 35 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 160 124 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 26 8 Deferred taxation rate change 64 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings 11 14 Total taxation expense 1,173 1,192 1 As restated see note 28.
118 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Earnings per share 1 2014 2013 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 211.8 204.3 Diluted earnings per share 209.1 202.0 Headline earnings per share 211.6 203.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share 242.0 237.2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 239.0 234.5 1 As restated see note 28.
The weighted average number of shares was: 2014 2013 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,671 1,667 Treasury shares 67 72 EBT ordinary shares 7 5 Basic shares 1,597 1,590 Dilutive ordinary shares 20 19 Diluted shares 1,617 1,609 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 6,044,130 2013: 6,332,436 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year and 19,755,628 2013: 21,226,441 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards have not been met.
These share incentives could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
Incentives involving 9,399,753 shares were granted, and 2,721,860 share incentives were exercised or released after 31 March 2014 and before the signing of these financial statements.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure which excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share are based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 2 2013 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 3,381 3,250 Headline adjustments Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of intangible assets 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 52 39 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 Net profit on disposal of businesses 72 79 Loss gain on dilution of investments in associates 20 4 Tax effects of these items 11 14 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 1 3 Share of associates and joint ventures headline adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 15 Headline earnings 3,379 3,228 Capability programme costs 133 141 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges 13 17 Integration and restructuring costs excluding impairment 43 71 2 Net gain on fair value movements on capital items 12 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software 361 394 Tax effects of the above items 133 137 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 4 8 Share of associates and joint ventures other adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 73 78 Adjusted earnings 3,865 3,772 1 As restated see note 28.
2 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 119 9.
Dividends 2014 2013 US$m US$m Equity 2013 Final dividend paid: 77.0 US cents 2012: 69.5 US cents per ordinary share 1,236 1,125 2014 Interim dividend paid: 25.0 US cents 2013: 24.0 US cents per ordinary share 404 392 1,640 1,517 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 80 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2014, which will absorb an estimated US$1,280 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 15 August 2014 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg registers as at 8 August 2014.
The total dividend per share for the year is 105 US cents 2013: 101 US cents.
Treasury shares do not attract dividends and the employee benefit trusts have both waived their right to receive dividends further information can be found in note 26.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2012 20,496 Exchange adjustments 301 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 13 At 31 March 2013 20,185 Exchange adjustments 1,349 Acquisitions through business combinations provisional see note 29 7 At 31 March 2014 18,843 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2012 325 Exchange adjustments 13 Impairment 11 At 31 March 2013 323 Exchange adjustments 23 At 31 March 2014 346 Net book amount At 1 April 2012 20,171 At 31 March 2013 19,862 At 31 March 2014 18,497 2014 Provisional goodwill arose on the acquisition of the trade and assets of a wine and spirits business in Africa.
The residual value of the net assets acquired has been recognised as goodwill of US$7 million in the financial statements.
The fair value exercise in respect of this business combination has yet to be completed.
2013 Goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combination in the year of Darbrew Limited in Tanzania.
The fair value exercise in respect of this business combination is now complete.
120 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill continued Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows.
2014 2013 US$m US$m CGUs: Latin America: Central America 795 803 Colombia 4,392 4,706 Peru 1,658 1,796 Other Latin America 211 224 Europe: Czech Republic 909 901 Netherlands 106 100 Italy 445 414 Poland 1,258 1,168 Other Europe 80 75 North America 256 256 Africa 247 250 Asia Pacific: Australia 7,397 8,319 India 291 335 Other Asia Pacific 1 1 South Africa 451 514 18,497 19,862 Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where a potential impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis and the fair value less cost to sell calculated, in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows.
Expected volume compound annual growth rate CAGR Cash flows are based on financial forecasts approved by management for each CGU covering five-year periods and are dependent on managements expected volume CAGRs which have been determined based on past experience and planned initiatives, and with reference to external sources in respect of macro-economic assumptions.
Expected growth rates over the five-year forecast period are generally higher than the long-term average growth rates for the economies in which the CGUs operate as a steady state is not necessarily expected to be reached in this period.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which reflects the returns from United States Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, an equity risk premium adjusted for specific industry and country risks, and inflation differentials.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows.
Long-term growth rate Cash flows after the first five-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate the terminal recoverable amount.
The long-term growth rate is estimated using historical trends and expected future trends in inflation rates, based on external data.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations in each of the groups operating segments and relate only to subsidiaries of the group.
For the goodwill in Australia to be at risk of impairment, the following would need to occur: future compound net producer revenue growth to reduce to a level where EBITA growth over the short term is limited to the long-term growth rate of 2.8%: or long-term growth in nominal terms to fall below 1.8%: or the discount rate to rise to 8.2% or higher.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 121 10.
Goodwill continued Impairment reviews results As a result of the annual impairment reviews, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year.
In 2013 a US$30 million impairment loss was recognised in respect of SABMiller Vietnam Company Limited in Asia Pacific, which was principally due to a deterioration in trading conditions.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill US$11 million and property, plant and equipment US$19 million.
Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups CGUs.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2012 9,974 646 655 11,275 Exchange adjustments 11 36 2 45 Additions separately acquired 149 149 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 2 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 9 9 Disposals 4 7 11 At 31 March 2013 9,952 752 657 11,361 Exchange adjustments 789 14 65 868 Additions separately acquired 84 84 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 22 22 Transfers 3 3 Disposals 11 32 43 At 31 March 2014 9,188 811 557 10,556 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2012 988 287 42 1,317 Exchange adjustments 9 18 1 28 Amortisation 335 56 59 450 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 7 7 Disposals 6 6 At 31 March 2013 1,307 319 100 1,726 Exchange adjustments 83 5 7 95 Amortisation 312 66 49 427 Disposals 10 32 42 Impairment 8 8 At 31 March 2014 1,544 370 110 2,024 Net book amount At 1 April 2012 8,986 359 613 9,958 At 31 March 2013 8,645 433 557 9,635 At 31 March 2014 7,644 441 447 8,532 During 2014 impairment charges in respect of intangible assets totalling US$8 million 2013: US$nil were recognised, all in Asia Pacific.
At 31 March significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows.
Amortisation period 2014 2013 remaining US$m US$m years Brand carrying value Carlton Australia 1,853 2,139 38 guila Colombia 1,335 1,478 31 Victoria Bitter Australia 935 1,080 38 Cristal Peru 578 646 31 Grolsch Netherlands 439 421 34 122 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles Returnable construction buildings and systems containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2012 584 3,765 8,250 2,067 14,666 Exchange adjustments 18 163 505 147 833 Additions 720 25 324 296 1,365 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 2 Breakages and shrinkage 71 71 Transfers 733 115 532 86 Transfers from other assets 3 3 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 2 10 12 Disposals 11 18 313 138 480 At 31 March 2013 542 3,723 8,282 2,093 14,640 Exchange adjustments 33 157 474 113 777 Additions 716 23 346 364 1,449 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 8 4 12 Breakages and shrinkage 216 216 Transfers 618 93 423 102 Transfers to from other assets 8 1 7 Disposals 1 25 179 180 385 At 31 March 2014 606 3,665 8,394 2,051 14,716 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2012 672 3,776 1,056 5,504 Exchange adjustments 43 273 82 398 Provided during the year 78 563 226 867 Breakages and shrinkage 24 24 Impairment 4 35 39 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 6 7 Disposals 8 293 99 400 At 31 March 2013 702 3,802 1,077 5,581 Exchange adjustments 43 273 53 369 Provided during the year 77 544 233 854 Breakages and shrinkage 136 136 Impairment 2 50 52 Transfers 1 50 49 Transfers to other assets 1 1 Disposals 16 156 158 330 At 31 March 2014 723 3,916 1,012 5,651 Net book amount At 1 April 2012 584 3,093 4,474 1,011 9,162 At 31 March 2013 542 3,021 4,480 1,016 9,059 At 31 March 2014 606 2,942 4,478 1,039 9,065 As a result of the annual impairment reviews, no impairment losses have been recognised in the year 2013: US$19 million see note 10.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$695 million 2013: US$725 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Net book amount 61 40 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 123 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in the net book amounts above are the following amounts in respect of borrowing costs capitalised.
2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 April 45 53 Exchange adjustments 4 4 Amortised during the year 4 4 At 31 March 37 45 No borrowing costs were capitalised during the year 2013: none.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$87 million 2013: US$21 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups significant investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and effective ownership interest is given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2012 5,520 Investments in joint ventures 272 1 Share of results retained 686 1 Share of other comprehensive loss 45 Dividends received 886 At 31 March 2013 5,547 Investments in joint ventures 188 Share of results retained 737 Share of other comprehensive income 12 Dividends received 903 At 31 March 2014 5,581 1 As restated see note 28.
Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures is shown below.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Revenue 5,199 5,214 Expenses 4,462 4,528 Profit after tax 737 686 Non-current assets 5,634 5,626 Current assets 585 593 Current liabilities 552 521 Non-current liabilities 763 829 1 As restated see note 28.
124 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and effective ownership interest is given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2012 5,072 Exchange adjustments 161 Investments in associates 106 Disposal of investments in associates 21 Share of results retained 527 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive loss 6 Dividends receivable 113 At 31 March 2013 5,416 Exchange adjustments 264 Investments in associates 231 Share of results retained 489 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive income 133 Share of movements in other reserves 6 Dividends receivable 224 At 31 March 2014 5,787 2014 There have been no acquisitions or disposals of associates in the year.
The increase in investments in associates primarily relates to increased investment in our Chinese associate to partly fund the Kingway acquisition.
2013 On 7 November 2012 Fosters sold its 49.9% interest in Fosters USA LLC to MillerCoors LLC at no gain or loss to the group.
Fosters USA LLC is now wholly owned by MillerCoors LLC.
The analysis of associate undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Listed 2,306 2,580 Unlisted 3,481 2,836 5,787 5,416 As at 31 March the market value of listed investments included above is: Anadolu Efes 1,580 2,318 Distell Group Ltd 716 704 Delta Corporation Ltd 354 351 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd 1,046 1,166 Further details on the market value of listed investments in associates is given in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Total assets 30,192 23,249 Total liabilities 12,043 8,890 Revenue 21,524 19,046 Net profit 1,565 2,155 Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 125 15.
Inventories 2014 2013 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 669 691 Work in progress 121 123 Finished goods and goods for resale 378 361 1,168 1,175 The following amount of inventories are expected to be utilised after 12 months.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 46 48 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2013: US$nil.
An impairment charge of US$25 million was recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2013: US$15 million.
Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,504 1,740 Less: provision for impairment 144 140 Trade receivables net 1,360 1,600 Other receivables 357 392 Less: provision for impairment 12 12 Other receivables net 345 380 Amounts owed by associates 42 68 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 5 Prepayments and accrued income 208 158 Total trade and other receivables 1,960 2,211 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,345 1,584 Other receivables net 250 274 Amounts owed by associates 32 59 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 5 Prepayments and accrued income 189 145 1,821 2,067 Non-current Trade receivables net 15 16 Other receivables net 95 106 Amounts owed by associates 10 9 Prepayments and accrued income 19 13 139 144 The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
At 31 March 2014 trade and other receivables of US$450 million 2013: US$466 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers in respect of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below.
Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 3060 days 6090 days 90180 days 180 days US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Trade receivables 1,022 149 54 23 31 57 Other receivables 231 52 11 6 16 26 Amounts owed by associates 17 4 6 15 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 At 31 March 2013 Trade receivables 1,255 181 62 15 18 42 Other receivables 290 44 18 5 4 15 Amounts owed by associates 6 2 3 4 53 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 126 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$10 million 2013: US$17 million.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees and charges over assets.
At 31 March 2014 trade receivables of US$168 million 2013: US$167 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2014 was US$144 million 2013: US$140 million and reflects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against specifically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$1 million 2013: US$1 million.
At 31 March 2014 other receivables of US$15 million 2013: US$16 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2014 was US$12 million 2013: US$12 million and reflects loans to customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The group held collateral as security against specifically impaired other receivables at 31 March 2014 of US$nil 2013: US$1 million.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Australian dollar 176 260 British pound 73 81 Colombian peso 135 167 Czech koruna 78 91 Euro 225 246 Indian rupee 141 136 Polish zloty 185 211 SA rand 295 340 US dollar 204 238 Other currencies 448 441 1,960 2,211 Movements on the provisions for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows.
Trade receivables Other receivables 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 140 140 12 12 Provision for receivables impairment 24 23 6 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 18 12 5 Disposals 4 Exchange adjustments 2 7 1 At 31 March 144 140 12 12 The creation of provisions for impaired receivables is included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 1,589 1,684 Cash at bank and in hand 492 487 2,081 2,171 Cash and short-term deposits of US$117 million 2013: US$146 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
As normal dividends are generally able to be paid, these restrictions are not expected to have a material impact on the groups ability to meet its ongoing obligations.
The group operates notional cash pools.
The structures facilitate interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
These notional pooling arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS and, as a result, the cash and overdraft balances have been reported net on the balance sheet.
Refer to note 23 for further details of amounts offset in the balance sheet.
Effective 1 January 2012 the group combined the operational management of its Angolan businesses in Africa with the Angolan businesses of its associate, Castel.
All of the Angolan businesses, in which the group retains an associate interest, are being managed from that date by Castel.
As a result, a participation in a bank loan of US$100 million previously owed by an Angolan subsidiary of the group was no longer entitled to be offset within borrowings.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 Castel paid US$100 million to the group to cover the groups exposure in respect of the loan participation deposit.
This resulted in a payable to associate being recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as the loan participation deposit and the payable to associate are held with different counterparties and therefore were unable to be offset.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 there was a non-cash settlement of the loan participation deposit and the payable to associate.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 127 18.
Trade and other payables 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trade payables 1,333 1,236 Accruals 731 873 Deferred income 9 9 Containers in the hands of customers 453 504 Amounts owed to associates 39 150 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 16 14 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 9 10 Excise duty payable 358 363 VAT and other taxes payable 216 239 Other payables 708 738 Total trade and other payables 3,872 4,136 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 1,333 1,236 Accruals 731 873 Deferred income 6 5 Containers in the hands of customers 453 504 Amounts owed to associates trade 39 50 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 16 14 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 5 4 Excise duty payable 358 363 VAT and other taxes payable 216 239 Other payables 690 716 3,847 4,004 Non-current Deferred income 3 4 Amounts owed to associates 100 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 4 6 Other payables 18 22 25 132 128 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,436 3,602 Exchange adjustments 219 45 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 1 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 Rate change 64 Transfers from current tax 13 Credited to the income statement 111 32 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 1 6 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 13 19 At 31 March 3,131 3,436 1 As restated see note 28.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Investment in Fixed asset benefit Financial MillerCoors Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2012 707 14 2,818 46 687 433 3,719 Exchange adjustments 51 2 2 47 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Rate change 64 64 Transfers from deferred tax assets 11 14 25 Transfers to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 1 1 Charged credited to the income statement 104 22 125 2 35 85 51 Deferred tax on items charged credited to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 1 7 6 1 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 6 13 19 At 31 March 2013 685 2 2,695 47 702 530 3,507 Exchange adjustments 41 231 1 54 219 Transfers from current tax 16 16 Transfers from to deferred tax assets 4 2 1 3 Charged credited to the income statement 84 2 86 62 5 67 Deferred tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 1 1 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 8 5 13 At 31 March 2014 724 12 2,380 48 644 466 3,246 1 As restated see note 28.
Fixed asset Provisions Other timing allowances and accruals differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2012 57 60 117 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 Transfers to from deferred tax liabilities 11 20 6 25 Charged to the income statement 4 2 13 19 At 31 March 2013 15 34 52 71 Exchange adjustments 1 1 Transfers from current tax 3 3 Transfers to from deferred tax liabilities 4 2 1 3 Credited to the income statement 2 42 44 At 31 March 2014 16 35 96 115 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 129 19.
Deferred taxation continued The deferred tax asset arises because of timing differences in Europe, Africa, Asia Pacific, and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$3,174 million 2013: US$3,449 million are expected to fall due after more than one year and deferred tax assets of US$112 million 2013: US$52 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 355 345 Tax credits 1,532 1,318 Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 19 16 Share-based payments 28 29 Other deductible temporary differences 120 60 2,054 1,768 Deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses are not recognised unless there is convincing evidence that there will be sufficient profits in future years to recover the assets.
A significant part of the tax losses arise in the UK and the value has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20%.
The tax losses do not expire.
Deferred tax assets in respect of tax credits arising which are carried forward for offset against future profits are not recognised unless it is probable that future profits will arise.
US$1,180 million 2013: US$968 million of these tax credits expire within 10 years.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$14 million 2013: US$16 million has been recognised in the year.
A deferred tax liability of US$97 million 2013: US$80million has been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operating in lower tax jurisdictions do not result in a deferred tax liability where the reporting entity is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Similarly no tax is provided where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries but it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
As a result of UK legislation which largely exempts overseas dividends from tax, the temporary differences arising on unremitted profits are unlikely to lead to additional corporate taxes.
However, remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
Borrowings 2014 2013 US$m US$m Current Secured Overdrafts 32 9 Obligations under finance leases 8 8 Other secured loans 2 5 42 22 Unsecured Overdrafts 181 203 Unsecured bonds 3,402 1,881 Other unsecured loans 894 363 4,477 2,447 Total current borrowings 4,519 2,469 The fair value of current borrowings is US$4,636 million 2013: US$2,485 million.
130 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued 2014 2013 US$m US$m Non-current Secured Obligations under finance leases 43 27 Other secured loans 2 4 45 31 Unsecured Unsecured bonds 12,036 14,451 Unsecured loans 447 1,597 12,483 16,048 Total non-current borrowings 12,528 16,079 Total current and non-current borrowings 17,047 18,548 Analysed as: Overdrafts 213 212 Bank loans 1,345 1,969 Bonds 15,438 16,332 Obligations under finance leases 51 35 17,047 18,548 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows.
In 2013 as restated for the change in definition of net debt.
The fair value of non-current borrowings is US$13,231 million 2013: US$16,679 million.
Further details on the fair value of borrowings is given in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
2014 On 13 August 2013 SABMiller Holdings Inc issued US$750 million, 2.2% Notes due August 2018 and US$350 million, Floating Rate Notes due August 2018, each guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The US$750 million Notes and the US$350 million Notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
The US$750 million Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
2013 On 28 March 2013 SABSA Holdings Ltd issued ZAR1,000 million, 7.125% Notes due March 2018.
The notes were issued under the ZAR6,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 13 December 2012 and guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
On 6 December 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc issued 1,000 million, 1.875% Notes due January 2020.
The notes were issued under the US$3,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme established on 12 October 2012 and guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The ZAR1,000 million Notes and the 1,000 million Notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
The 1,000 million Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 131 20.
Borrowings continued Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows.
2014 2013 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows.
Within one year 11 9 Between one and five years 36 24 In five years or more 17 10 64 43 Future finance charges 13 8 Present value of finance lease liabilities 51 35 21.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: market risk credit risk liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the Chief Financial Officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Among other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
The board also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the price risk of some commodities.
The responsibility for the management of the remaining commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group, including SABMiller Procurement GmbH SABMiller Procurement, the groups centralised procurement function.
Risk management of key brewing and packaging materials has now been substantially transferred to SABMiller Procurement.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of derivatives.
An approximate nominal value equivalent to US$4,774 million 2013: US$5,039 million of borrowings have been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, including Australian dollar, Colombian peso, Czech koruna, Peruvian nuevo sol, Polish zloty and SouthAfrican rand.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are managed primarily by the group treasury function or in some cases locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18 months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange derivatives to hedge currency risk.
132 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk factors continued The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on a basis consistent with 2013, based on reasonably possible changes in exchange rates, and assumes all other variables are heldconstant.
Latin Other Australian American European SA dollars Euro currencies currencies rand US dollars Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 4 17 101 142 21 36 321 1 Derivative financial instruments 333 1,313 1,146 285 1,245 8 4,330 Cash and cash equivalents 176 57 78 5 35 10 361 Intra-group assets 1,617 613 93 416 1 2,740 337 3,123 57 1,938 525 1,717 55 7,752 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1 154 256 45 210 21 687 1 Derivative financial instruments 1,276 1,600 584 3,977 905 23 6 8,371 Borrowings 2,779 54 1,487 4,320 Intra-group liabilities 47 181 160 97 72 207 1 765 1,324 4,714 798 4,330 1,022 1,927 28 14,143 At 31 March 2014 987 1,591 741 2,392 497 210 27 6,391 Potential impact on profit for the year gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 5 25 9 43 19 73 5 113 20% decrease in functional currency 5 30 11 52 23 88 5 136 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 160 240 133 355 101 38 951 20% decrease in functional currency 192 289 159 427 122 46 1,143 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Latin Other Australian American European SA dollars Euro currencies currencies rand US dollars Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 3 36 165 134 135 21 21 515 1 Derivative financial instruments 1,034 352 61 2,023 3,470 Cash and cash equivalents 8 9 16 2 25 2 62 Intra-group assets 115 1,062 802 8 190 2 2,179 118 2,140 174 1,304 206 2,259 25 6,226 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 19 143 215 415 47 260 5 1,104 Derivative financial instruments 1,331 431 428 1,023 565 58 3,836 Borrowings 521 2,557 58 9 1,533 113 4,791 Intra-group liabilities 400 103 114 41 45 1 704 2,271 3,234 701 1,561 653 1,896 119 10,435 At 31 March 2013 2,153 1,094 527 257 447 363 94 4,209 Potential impact on profit for the year gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 50 7 70 9 11 16 5 20% decrease in functional currency 60 8 84 11 14 19 6 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 309 182 81 114 84 72 698 20% decrease in functional currency 370 219 97 136 100 86 836 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 133 21.
Financial risk factors continued The group holds foreign currency cash flow hedges totalling US$1,559 million at 31 March 2014 2013: US$1,228 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash flow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill or to the income statement as appropriate.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$5,617 million at 31 March 2014 2013: US$5,937 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
ii Interest rate risk As at 31 March 2014 42% 2013: 46% of consolidated gross borrowings were in fixed rates taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to borrow directly or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in fixed rates for a minimum duration of 12 months.
The extent to which group borrowings may be in floating rates is further restricted by the impact a 1% increase in interest rates would have on finance costs.
The policy excludes any inflation-linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations, and also excludes borrowings arising from acquisitions in the previous six months.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through interest rate derivatives.
The cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps are shown in the table below.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2013, based on reasonably possible changes in interest rates.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Net debt 14,303 15,600 2 Less: fixed rate debt 11,824 14,050 Variable rate debt 2,479 1,550 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 4,712 5,515 Net variable rate debt exposure 7,191 7,065 - 100 bps change Potential impact on profit for the year 72 71 - 100 bps change Potential impact on other comprehensive income 8 1 As restated see note 28.
2 Includes non-current fixed rate borrowings, accrued interest, fair value adjustments on borrowings designated as fair value hedges and the carrying value of financing-related derivative financial instruments.
Current fixed rate borrowings are assumed to be exposed to interest rate risk owing to maturity in the following financial year.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with fixed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$6,414 million as at 31 March 2014 2013: US$6,704 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying fixed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements materially net off in the income statement in the same period.
Interest rate profiles of financial liabilities The following table sets out the underlying borrowings excluding net financing-related derivatives exposed to either fixed interest rates or floating interest rates and revises this for the effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2014 2013 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fixed rate interest 11,824 4,712 7,112 14,050 5,515 8,535 Floating rate interest 5,223 4,712 9,935 4,498 5,515 10,013 Total interest-bearing borrowings 17,047 17,047 18,548 18,548 134 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk factors continued iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
Commodity price risk is managed within minimum and maximum guard rails principally through multi-year fixed price contracts with suppliers and, where appropriate, derivative contracts.
The group hedges a proportion of commodity supply and price risk for a period of up to five years.
At 31 March 2014 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$143 million 2013: US$89 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally dealing only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$5 million is applied, unless specific approval is obtained from either the Chief Financial Officer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
Trade and other receivables There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$4,480 million 2013: US$5,052 million which is the total of the groups financial assets.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 214 281 Between one and two years 41 17 Between two and five years 3,019 554 In five years or more 2,500 3,274 3,352 At 31 March 2014 the group had the following core lines of credit that were available for general corporate purposes.
SABMiller plc: US$2,500 million committed syndicated revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in April 2018.
SABMiller Holdings Inc: US$500 million revolving credit facility, which was due to expire in September 2016.
In May 2014 the group amended its existing US$2,500 million committed syndicated facility, shown as undrawn in the table above, extending the maturity to May 2019 and re-instating the option of two one-year extensions.
The group also entered into a five-year US$1,000 million committed syndicated facility maturing May 2019, with the option of two one-year extensions.
This facility replaced the existing US$500 million committed syndicated facility due to mature in September 2016, also shown as undrawn in the table above, which has been voluntarily cancelled.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 135 21.
Financial risk factors continued The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual settlement date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The amounts disclosed for financial guarantee contracts represent the maximum possible cash outflows for guarantees provided in respect of associates bank facilities, which would only be payable upon the occurrence of certain default events.
Should such events occur, certain remedies are available that could mitigate the impact.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Borrowings 4,898 1,149 5,558 6,568 Net settled derivative financial instruments 28 14 29 Gross settled derivative financial instruments inflows 2,926 64 Gross settled derivative financial instruments outflows 2,990 69 Trade and other payables 3,265 23 Financial guarantee contracts 208 At 31 March 2013 Borrowings 3,466 4,468 5,881 9,407 Net settled derivative financial instruments 11 13 13 Gross settled derivative financial instruments inflows 1,338 43 Gross settled derivative financial instruments outflows 1,367 44 Trade and other payables 3,391 119 Financial guarantee contracts 234 Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 27c and shareholders equity.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash flow metrics including net debt to adjusted EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
If the group fails to meet the financial targets required by the ratings agencies, a credit rating downgrade could impact the average interest rate of borrowings and the future availability of credit to the group.
The group is currently rated Baa1 stable outlook by Moodys Investors Service and BBB positive outlook by Standard & Poors Ratings Services.
Fair value estimation The following tables present the groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and the fair values of other assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value, but where the fair value is required to be disclosed in the financial statements.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Recurring fair value measurements US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Assets Derivative financial instruments 769 769 Available for sale investments 10 12 22 Total assets 779 12 791 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 115 115 Total liabilities 115 115 At 31 March 2013 Assets Derivative financial instruments 843 843 Available for sale investments 10 12 22 Total assets 853 12 865 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 86 86 Total liabilities 86 86 136 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk factors continued Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Assets Investments in listed associates Anadolu Efes 1,566 1,580 1,580 Distell Group 224 716 716 Delta Corporation 141 354 354 Tsogo Sun Holdings 375 1,046 1,046 Total assets 2,306 3,696 3,696 Liabilities Borrowings 17,047 15,344 2,456 67 17,867 Total liabilities 17,047 15,344 2,456 67 17,867 There have been no transfers between levels during the year ended 31 March 2014 2013: none.
The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to the groups assets and liabilities are described below.
Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The fair value of assets and liabilities traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived fromprices.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives or infrequently traded listed investments are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
The fair values of derivatives included in level 2 incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, spot and forward foreign exchange rates and interest rate curves.
The fair values of borrowings included in level 2 are based on the net present value of the anticipated future cash flows associated with these instruments, using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Valuation techniques for other level 2 instruments could include standard valuation models based on market parameters for interest rates, yield curves or foreign exchange rates, quotes for similar instruments from financial counterparties or the use of comparable arms length transactions, and discounted cash flows.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Specific valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments.
Valuation process The groups treasury function is responsible for performing fair value measurements for financial instruments.
The fair value measurement calculations are subject to review procedures and are performed in accordance with policies defined by the treasury committee.
Other fair value measurements are performed by the groups finance department.
Significant level 3 valuations are reviewed and approved by the finance, control and assurance committee in the relevant region on a by exception basis.
Valuations falling into this category are usually immaterial.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 137 22.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2014 2013 Notional Notional value Assets Liabilities value Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 1,588 32 Cash flow hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 1,450 21 8 1,228 1 12 Commodity contracts 105 12 55 4 Net investment hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 2,396 27 35 Cross currency swaps 335 43 Held for trading Embedded derivatives 1 1 Interest rate swaps 96 1 940 25 4 Forward foreign currency contracts 1,985 14 20 1,709 37 14 Cross currency swaps 7 4 2 203 47 7,962 141 78 4,136 111 34 Financing-related current derivative financial instruments amount to a net asset of US$67 million 2013: US$93 million.
Non-current derivative financial instruments 2014 2013 Notional Notional value Assets Liabilities value Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 3,826 217 28 5,404 428 13 Cross currency swaps 1,000 35 1,300 78 Cash flow hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 109 1 Commodity contracts 38 4 34 2 Interest rate swaps 611 10 Cross currency swaps 1,111 204 1,250 59 Net investment hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 18 1 2,334 36 16 Cross currency swaps 631 102 2 999 81 Held for trading Interest rate swaps 600 37 1 300 11 Forward foreign currency contracts 116 5 Cross currency swaps 246 33 203 45 7,579 628 37 12,551 732 52 Financing-related non-current derivative financial instruments amount to a net asset of US$596 million 2013: US$684 million, restated.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar and euro fixed rate borrowings.
Borrowings are designated as the hedged item as part of the fair value hedge.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same criticalterms.
As at 31 March 2014 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$7,214 million 2013: US$7,202 million.
ii Cash flow hedges The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected net operating costs including future trade imports and exports.
The group has entered into commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31March 2014 the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$20 million 2013: US$13 million, of aluminium was US$122million 2013: US$75 million and of sugar was US$1 million 2013: US$1 million.
The group has entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage foreign currency exposures on interest payments.
138 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued The following table indicates the period in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement.
Carrying Expected Less than Between Between amount cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Over 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Forward foreign currency contracts 12 9 11 2 Commodity contracts 16 20 13 6 1 Cross currency swaps 204 118 16 98 34 2 200 107 18 90 33 2 At 31 March 2013 Forward foreign currency contracts 11 11 11 Commodity contracts 6 8 4 3 1 Cross currency swaps 59 66 20 29 19 56 Interest rate swaps 10 10 4 6 32 95 39 20 20 56 iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, Australia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Colombia and Peru to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Analysis of notional amounts on derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is as follows.
Notional amounts have been translated to US dollars at the closing rate at 31 March.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Forward foreign currency contracts: Australian dollar 695 1,042 Colombian peso 180 243 Czech koruna 336 278 Peruvian nuevo sol 403 185 Polish zloty 114 187 South African rand 686 399 Cross currency swaps: Australian dollar 258 289 Czech koruna 382 379 Polish zloty 193 179 South African rand 133 152 3,380 3,333 Held for trading derivative financial instruments i Interest rate swaps The group has entered into interest rate swaps to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates arising from the groups borrowings.
The derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
ii Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports and to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
iii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 139 22.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 9 8 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 43 7 Forward foreign currency contracts 3 17 Fair value loss on forward foreign currency contracts transferred from other comprehensive loss 2 5 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 3 Cross currency swaps 27 19 Cross currency swaps designated as fair value hedges 1 Embedded derivatives 1 Other fair value gains 15 18 69 53 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge 43 7 Total fair value loss gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 26 60 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings were recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments were recognised in operating profit.
Other financial instrument disclosures Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Fair value Financial Not through liabilities held categorised income Loans and Available at amortised as a financial Nonstatement receivables for sale cost instrument Total current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Assets Available for sale investments 22 22 22 Derivative financial instruments 769 769 628 141 Trade and other receivables 1,608 352 1,960 139 1,821 Cash and cash equivalents 2,081 2,081 2,081 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 115 115 37 78 Borrowings 17,047 17,047 12,528 4,519 Trade and other payables 3,289 583 3,872 25 3,847 At 31 March 2013 Assets Available for sale investments 22 22 22 Derivative financial instruments 843 843 732 111 Trade and other receivables 1,916 295 2,211 144 2,067 Loan participation deposit 100 100 100 Cash and cash equivalents 2,171 2,171 2,171 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 86 86 52 34 Borrowings 18,548 18,548 16,079 2,469 Trade and other payables 3,524 612 4,136 132 4,004 140 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Other financial instrument disclosures continued Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The following table provides details of financial assets and liabilities that are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements, or similar agreements.
Related amounts of financial Gross Gross Net amounts instruments amounts of amounts of recognised in not set off financial financial the balance in the assets liabilities sheet balance sheet Net amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Assets Derivative financial instruments 769 769 106 663 Trade and other receivables 1,640 32 1,608 1,608 Cash and cash equivalents 2,090 9 2,081 2,081 Liabilities Borrowings 41 17,088 17,047 17,047 Derivative financial instruments 115 115 106 9 At 31 March 2013 Assets Derivative financial instruments 843 843 77 766 Trade and other receivables 1,948 32 1,916 1,916 Cash and cash equivalents 2,324 153 2,171 2,171 Liabilities Borrowings 185 18,733 18,548 18,548 Derivative financial instruments 86 86 77 9 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each party to the agreement will have the option to settle the amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
A default event includes failure by a party to make a payment when due: failure by a party to perform any other obligation required by the agreement if such failure is not remedied within the periods defined in each contract: or bankruptcy.
The group holds other receivables and borrowings balances with the same financial counterparties.
Where these arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS, the balances have been reported net on the balance sheet.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 141 24.
Provisions Demerged Postentities and retirement  litigation benefits related Restructuring related contracts Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 125 309 265 217 71 214 72 1,273 Exchange adjustments 4 16 3 1 3 1 1 27 Charged credited to the income statement 1 Additional provision in year 1 32 21 19 14 2 18 107 Amounts reversed 25 5 1 31 Utilised in the year 4 43 7 110 13 56 19 252 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 1 recorded in other comprehensive loss 19 19 Transfer from current tax liabilities 7 7 Transfer between categories 7 10 6 9 1 1 At 31 March 2013 125 301 248 114 78 160 70 1,096 Exchange adjustments 5 20 8 10 6 17 2 68 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 24 18 12 37 9 7 107 Amounts reversed 11 32 28 2 5 78 Utilised in the year 20 31 5 31 26 32 7 152 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans recorded in other comprehensive loss 22 22 Transfer between categories 1 1 At 31 March 2014 113 246 216 82 55 109 62 883 2014 2013 US$m US$m Analysed as: Current 450 558 Non-current 433 538 883 1,096 1 As restated see note 28.
Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998 the group recognised a provision of US$73 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 US$1 million 2013: US$1 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$7 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$106 million 2013: US$115 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming four years.
While a provision for claims has been recorded, the actual outcome of the disputes and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits for eligible employees and their dependants primarily in Europe, medical and other benefits in Latin America, and pension provisions for employees primarily in Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 31.
Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to noncorporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within two years, along with restructuring provisions primarily in Australia and Latin America which are expected to be utilised over the course of the next three years.
142 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions continued Payroll-related This principally relates to employee entitlement provisions of US$30 million 2013: US$37 million in Asia Pacific and employee long service awards of US$16 million 2013: US$17 million in South Africa.
The prior year also included US$18 million of cash-settled share-based payment provisions within Corporate.
Onerous contracts This includes provisions for unfavourable supply contracts for malt, glass, aluminium cans and concentrated fruit juice for non-alcoholic beverages, as well as provisions for surplus property leases in Australia which management expects to be utilised within six years.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are environmental provisions and other provisions.
These are primarily expected to be utilised within three years.
Share capital 2014 2013 US$m US$m Group and company Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,672,647,930 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2013: 1,669,731,799 167 167 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2013: 50,000 167 167 Ordinary shares of Deferred Nominal 10 US cents shares of value each 1 each US$m At 1 April 2012 1,664,323,483 50,000 166 Issue of shares share incentive plans 5,408,316 1 At 31 March 2013 1,669,731,799 50,000 167 Issue of shares share incentive plans 2,916,131 At 31 March 2014 1,672,647,930 50,000 167 Changes to authorised share capital With effect from 1 October 2009 the company adopted new articles of association which removed any previous limit on the authorised share capital.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share plans.
Changes to issued share capital During the year the company issued 2,916,131 2013: 5,408,316 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the various share incentive plans, for consideration of US$54 million 2013: US$102 million.
Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Convertible participating shares were originally issued to Altria as part of the Miller Brewing Company transaction in 2002 but were subsequently converted into ordinary shares.
There are no convertible participating shares currently in issue.
Altria is however entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares back into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If Altrias ordinary shares were converted into convertible participating shares, the convertible participating shares would rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the company in relation to a distribution of the profits of the company and a return of capital.
On a poll vote at general meetings of the company, Altria would be entitled to vote in respect of its convertible participating shares on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria would be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share.
Conversion into ordinary shares If Altrias ordinary shares are converted into convertible participating shares, the provisions governing possible conversion back into ordinary shares would apply.
These state that upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria to any person other than to an affiliate of Altria, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
In addition, Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares in the event of a takeover offer for the company, or a third party acquiring more than a 24.99% voting shareholding, provided certain conditions are met.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 143 25.
Share capital continued The company must use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Ltd, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading need be sought for the convertible participating shares while they remain convertible participating shares.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle their holders to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various share incentive plans.
The share incentives outstanding are summarised as follows.
2014 2013 Scheme Number Number GBP share options 16,035,174 17,809,920 ZAR share options 10,108,718 12,939,245 GBP stock appreciation rights SARs 5,170,646 1,955,529 ZAR stock appreciation rights SARs 1,178,200 GBP performance share awards 6,802,427 7,505,723 GBP value share awards 11,297,444 11,721,564 1 Total share incentives outstanding 50,592,609 51,931,981 1 Total share incentives outstanding exclude shares relating to the BBBEE scheme.
Further details relating to all of the share incentive schemes can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 84.
The exercise prices of incentives outstanding at 31 March 2014 ranged from 0 to 33.30 and ZAR96.25 to ZAR527.49 2013: 0 to 28.28 and ZAR53.30 to ZAR401.06.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following tables.
GBP share options GBP share options include share options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the International Employee Share Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, or the International Employee Share Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2012 16,622,334 15.91 Granted 4,637,730 24.01 5.85 Lapsed 583,250 20.28 Exercised 2,866,894 12.52 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 17,809,920 18.42 Granted 496,498 33.10 6.65 Lapsed 308,467 23.00 Exercised 1,962,777 13.76 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 16,035,174 19.36 ZAR share options Share options designated in ZAR include share options granted under the South African Executive Share Option Plan 2008 and the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa.
No further grants can be made under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 1 April 2012 13,024,503 200.73 Granted 2,912,565 381.88 134.46 Lapsed 456,401 263.02 Exercised 2,541,422 154.55 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 12,939,245 248.38 Granted 644,300 511.07 133.13 Lapsed 615,083 332.30 Exercised 2,859,744 186.52 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 10,108,718 277.52 144 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued GBP SARs GBP SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 and the International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of SARs GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2012 2,820,144 10.25 Granted 60,600 23.95 5.81 Lapsed 9,600 15.94 Exercised 915,615 8.66 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 1,955,529 11.39 Granted 3,807,632 33.29 6.67 Lapsed 154,963 27.69 Exercised 437,552 8.70 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 5,170,646 27.25 ZAR SARs ZAR SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the South African Stock Appreciation Rights Sub-Plan 2008.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of SARs ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 31 March 2013 Granted 1,209,900 527.49 140.05 Lapsed 31,700 527.49 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 1,178,200 527.49 GBP performance share awards GBP performance share awards include awards made under the Executive Share Award Plan 2008, the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme.
No further awards can be made under the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme, although outstanding awards remain and will vest, subject to the achievement of their respective performance conditions on their vesting date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2012 6,880,114 Granted 3,471,222 22.32 Lapsed 254,284 Released to participants 2,591,329 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 7,505,723 Granted 2,102,870 30.86 Lapsed 483,188 Released to participants 2,322,978 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 6,802,427 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 145 25.
Share capital continued GBP value share awards The 3,606,720 2013: 4,843,780 value share awards granted during the year ended 31 March 2014 represent the theoretical maximum number of awards that could possibly vest in the future, although in practice it is extremely unlikely that this number of awards would be released.
Number of Weighted Weighted value shares average average fair per 10 million Theoretical exercise value at of additional maximum price grant date value shares at cap GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2012 2,130 6,877,784 Granted 1,270 4,843,780 7.02 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 3,400 11,721,564 Granted 680 3,606,720 11.84 Lapsed 220 3,109,297 Released to participants 1,012 921,543 Outstanding at 31 March 2014 2,848 11,297,444 Of the 921,543 shares released, 384,684 shares are deferred and remain subject to forfeiture and 344,516 shares were subsequently converted to nil-cost options and remained outstanding at 31 March 2014 for the benefit of Graham Mackays estate.
GBP cash-settled awards GBP share incentives included under the Associated Companies Cash Award Plan 2011.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2012 335,940 Released to participants 335,940 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 Outstanding share incentives The following table summarises information about share incentives outstanding at 31 March.
Share capital continued Share incentives exercised or released The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise or release for share incentives exercised or released during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average market market Number price Number price 2014 2014 2013 2013 Share incentives designated in GBP 5,644,850 31.53 6,709,778 26.81 Share incentives designated in ZAR 2,859,744 512.29 2,541,422 385.70 Total share incentives exercised or released during the year 8,504,594 9,251,200 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme On 9 June 2010 the initial allocation of participation rights was made in relation to the BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
A total of 46.2 million new shares in The South African Breweries Pty Ltd SAB, representing 8.45% of SABs enlarged issued share capital, were issued.
The shares in SAB will be exchanged at the end of the estimated 10-year scheme term for shares in SABMiller plc based on a repurchase formula linked, inter alia, to the operating performance of SAB.
No performance conditions and exercise prices are attached to these shares, although the employee component has a four-year vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of each SAB share at the grant date was ZAR40.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model approach except for the awards under Performance Share Award schemes, the Executive Share Award Plan 2008 including value share awards and the BBBEE scheme which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations, and awards under the cash-settled scheme which have been valued based on an analytic approach.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the awards after considering their respective volatilities.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year.
2014 2013 1 Share price South African share option scheme ZAR 512.06 379.21 All other schemes 33.09 23.76 1 Exercise price South African share option scheme ZAR 521.78 381.88 All other schemes 14.32 8.71 2 Expected volatility all schemes % 25.3 26.1 Dividend yield all schemes % 2.3 2.4 Annual forfeiture rate South African share option scheme % 5.0 5.0 All other schemes % 3.0 3.0 Risk-free interest rate South African share option scheme % 6.9 7.3 All other schemes % 0.8 1.0 1 The calculation is based on the weighted fair value of issues made during the year.
2 Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa from seven years prior to the grant date 2013: 10 years.
148 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves a.
Retained earnings Treasury and Retained 1 EBT shares earnings Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 661 12,524 11,863 Profit for the year 3,250 3,250 Other comprehensive loss 22 22 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans taken to other comprehensive loss 19 19 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 22 22 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive loss 19 19 Dividends paid 1,517 1,517 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 53 53 Utilisation of EBT shares 71 71 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 189 189 At 31 March 2013 643 14,353 13,710 Profit for the year 3,381 3,381 Other comprehensive income 54 54 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans taken to other comprehensive income 22 22 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive income 45 45 Deferred tax charge on items taken to other comprehensive income 13 13 Dividends paid 1,640 1,640 Utilisation of merger relief reserve 265 265 Buyout of non-controlling interests 5 5 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 79 79 Utilisation of treasury and EBT shares 63 42 21 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 178 178 At 31 March 2014 659 16,544 15,885 1 As restated see note 28.
The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$753 million 2013: US$734 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or otherrestrictions.
Treasury and EBT shares reserve On 26 February 2009 77,368,338 SABMiller plc non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
While the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
On 15 February 2010 5,300,000 of these treasury shares were transferred to the EBT for nil consideration.
On 26March 2013 an additional 4,600,000 treasury shares were transferred to the EBT at no gain or loss to the group.
These shares will be used to satisfy awards outstanding under the various share incentive plans.
During 2014 1,345,165 treasury shares were used to directly satisfy share awards.
There are two employee benefit trusts currently in operation, being the SABMiller Employees Benefit Trust the EBT and the SABMiller Associated Companies Employees Benefit Trust the AC-EBT.
The EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various share incentive plans, further details of which are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2014 the EBT held 6,833,632 shares 2013: 8,339,106 shares which cost US$152 million 2013: US$126 million and had a market value of US$341 million 2013: US$438 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The EBT used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase such of the shares as were purchased in the market.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The AC-EBT may hold shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of providing share incentives for employees of companies in which SABMiller has a significant economic and strategic interest but over which it does not have management control.
At 31 March 2014 the AC-EBT held no shares 2013: none.
Shares currently held in each EBT rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares, but in both cases the trustees have elected to waive dividends and decline from voting shares, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares beneficially owned by a participant.
There were no beneficially owned shares in either EBT as at 31 March 2014 2013: nil.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 149 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued b.
Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows.
Foreign Net currency Cash flow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 2,320 4 341 3 1,978 Currency translation differences 696 696 Net investment hedges 63 63 Cash flow hedges 5 5 Available for sale investments 1 1 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive loss 6 6 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss income 23 6 17 At 31 March 2013 1,624 26 278 8 1,328 Currency translation differences 2,267 2,267 Net investment hedges 102 102 Cash flow hedges 34 34 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive income 1 1 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive income loss 104 2 6 100 At 31 March 2014 539 11 176 2 702 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Profit for the year 3,650 3,487 Taxation 1,173 1,192 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,226 1,213 Net finance costs 645 726 Operating profit 4,242 4,192 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 621 641 Containers 233 226 Container breakages, shrinkages and write-offs 80 38 Net profit on disposal of businesses 72 79 Loss gain on dilution of investment in associate 18 4 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 17 13 Amortisation of intangible assets 427 450 Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of intangible assets 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 52 39 Impairment of working capital balances 55 31 Amortisation of advances to customers 40 45 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Charge with respect to share options 141 184 Charge with respect to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme 13 17 Other non-cash movements 163 45 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements 5,677 5,758 Increase in inventories 73 14 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 128 107 Increase in trade and other payables 113 82 Decrease in provisions 89 177 Increase in post-retirement benefit provisions 14 12 Net cash generated from operations 5,770 5,554 1 As restated see note 28.
150 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27b.
Reconciliation of net cash generated from operating activities to free cash flow 2014 2013 US$m US$m Net cash generated from operating activities 3,431 4,101 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,401 1,335 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 70 30 Purchase of intangible assets 84 144 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 4 Investments in joint ventures 188 272 Investments in associates 199 23 Dividends received from joint ventures 903 886 Dividends received from associates 224 113 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 194 131 Free cash flow 2,563 3,230 27c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow statement as follows.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 2,081 2,171 Overdrafts 213 212 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow statement 1,868 1,959 The group has amended its net debt definition to include derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges as these hedges are considered to be inextricably linked to the underlying borrowings because they are used to mitigate the foreign currency exchange risk arising from the groups foreign currency borrowings.
The change in this definition has resulted in a reduction in net debt of US$101 million at 31March 2013, and US$45 million at 1 April 2012.
Net debt is analysed as follows.
Major non-cash transactions Major non-cash transactions included the following.
Additional profit realised in 2013 and 2014 on the disposal of the groups Angolan operations in Africa in 2012.
During 2014 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE related charges in South Africa, including share-based payment charges in relation to the employee component of the BBEEE scheme, together with the loss on the dilution of the groups investment in its associate, Distell Group Ltd, as a result of the exercise of share options issued as part of its BBBEE scheme.
During 2014 impairment charges relating to the closure of the Warnervale brewery and impairment of the Bluetongue brand in Australia.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 151 28.
Restatements The amendment to IAS 19, Employee benefits, was adopted retrospectively from 1 April 2013.
The group has restated the consolidated financial statements accordingly.
The quantitative impact of adopting this standard on the prior year consolidated financial statements is detailed in the table below.
No material adjustments to the balance sheet at 31 March 2013 have been required as a result of the adoption of the amended standard.
As part of the regular review of accounting practices and policies, fair value gains and losses on financial instruments, and exchange gains and losses have now been presented on a net basis within net finance costs.
Comparatives have been restated for consistency.
The quantitative impact of this change in presentation is detailed in the table below.
Year ended Year ended IAS 19 Finance costs 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 adjustments reclassification as restated US$m US$m US$m US$m Consolidated income statement Operating profit 4,203 11 4,192 Net finance costs 735 9 726 Finance costs 1,417 9 222 1,186 Finance income 682 222 460 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,244 31 1,213 Profit before taxation 4,712 33 4,679 Taxation 1,201 9 1,192 Profit for the year 3,511 24 3,487 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Profit for the year 3,511 24 3,487 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Net remeasurements of defined benefit plans 21 2 19 Tax on items that will not be reclassified 28 9 19 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 57 31 26 Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 50 24 26 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 650 650 Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax 700 24 676 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,811 2,811 29.
Acquisitions and disposals In December 2013 the group acquired the trade and assets of a wine and spirits business in Africa for consideration of US$42 million, of which US$3 million is deferred.
The business combination has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
Non-controlling interests The following non-controlling interests were acquired for cash consideration of US$5 million, generating additional equity of US$5 million.
Effective % holding after acquisition of non-controlling Form of Company % acquired interest consideration Country SABMiller Brands Korea 24 75 Cash South Korea Disposals In May 2013 a net profit of US$47 million, after associated costs, was realised on the disposal of the milk and juice business in Panama, in LatinAmerica.
152 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March are as follows.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 67 65 Later than one year and less than five years 147 152 After five years 30 33 244 250 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 58 54 Later than one year and less than five years 124 129 After five years 16 91 198 274 b.
Other commitments 2014 2013 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 271 239 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 16 3 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 55 48 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 3,736 2,632 Share of joint ventures other commitments 393 379 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2014 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2014 and 2021.
Additionally, in 2013 as part of the business capability programme the group had entered into contracts for the provision of IT, communications and consultancy services and in relation to which the group had commitments of US$120 million at 31 March 2013.
Following the conclusion of the business capability programme, no material commitments were held relating to the programme at 31 March 2014.
The groups share of joint ventures other commitments primarily relate to MillerCoors various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments.
c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2014 2013 US$m US$m 1 Guarantees to third parties 4 2 2 Litigation 1 15 Other contingent liabilities 3 2 8 19 1 Guarantees to third parties These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch and Nile Breweries Ltd to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers and suppliers respectively.
2 Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
These include claims made by certain former employees in Ecuador arising out of events which took place before the groups investment in Ecuador in 2005, in respect of which, based on legal advice that they have no valid legal basis, the directors have determined that no provision is required and that they should continue to be contested.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002 to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 153 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes which have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, the Netherlands and Latin America.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement are as follows.
1 2014 2013 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 106 110 Defined benefit pension plan costs 11 20 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 7 11 1 As restated see note 28.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 405 379 Fair value of plan assets 479 453 Surplus of funded plans 74 74 Impact of asset ceiling 78 87 Deficit of funded plans 4 13 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 155 193 Medical and other post-retirement benefits 87 95 Provisions for defined benefit plans 246 301 Accruals for defined contribution plans 4 7 The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes are provided below.
Latin America pension plans The group operates a number of pension plans throughout Latin America.
Details of the major plan are provided below.
The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded plan of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 28 February 2014 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by social security or private pension fund provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension scheme, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded plan of the defined benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension scheme was carried out at 31March 2014 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme The Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme, named AusBev Superannuation Fund, provides accumulation style and defined benefits to employees.
The company funds the defined benefits, administration and insurance costs of the scheme as a benefit to employees who elect to be members of this scheme.
The board of trustees is responsible for the governance of the scheme on behalf of the members.
The latest actuarial valuation of the Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme was carried out at 30 June 2011 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The valuation update for the scheme was carried out at 31 March 2014 by an independent actuary.
The defined benefits section is now closed to new members.
154 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below.
The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The governance of the schemes is the responsibility of the boards of trustees on behalf of the members, subject to the provisions of local legislation and the rules of each scheme.
The ABI Pension Fund no longer has any active or pensioner members.
There are surplus assets remaining in the scheme that will be distributed to former members in due course.
The Suncrush Pension Fund has pensioners where the pension liabilities have been outsourced to an insurance provider.
The trustees have made a provision in the fund rules for the active members such that benefits will be paid to members on exit for their benefits valued as at 1July 2005.
No further benefits are being accrued for active members.
The Suncrush Retirement Fund has no liabilities and is in the process of being closed down.
Risks The most significant risks the group is exposed to through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans are as follows.
Volatility of investment returns Those schemes that hold assets are exposed to volatility in investment returns on those assets, which may be higher or lower than the assumed expected return on those assets.
Asset mix is varied for each individual scheme to ensure investment volatility risk is appropriately managed.
Salary, pension and healthcare cost inflation risk Scheme liabilities for the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans are calculated based on assumed rates of salary, pension and or healthcare cost inflation.
Increases in these inflation rates will lead to higher liabilities.
Change in discount rate A decrease in corporate bond yields will result in a decrease in the discount rate and therefore an increase in scheme liabilities.
This will be partially offset by an increase in the value of plan assets where the scheme holds bonds.
Mortality rates The majority of the groups obligations to provide benefits under both the defined benefit pension plans and medical and other post-retirement benefits are for the life of the member.
Increases in life expectancy will result in increases in the scheme liabilities associated with the schemes.
The group ensures mortality rate assumptions incorporated in the actuarial calculations of the present value of scheme liabilities are from reliablesources.
Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other postDefined benefit pension plans retirement benefits Latin America Grolsch Other South Africa Other At 31 March 2014 Discount rate % 6.9 3.4 4.5 9.9 6.4 Salary inflation % 3.0 2.0 3.4 Pension inflation % 3.0 0.7 3.7 Healthcare cost inflation % 8.7 3.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 62 63 58 Females 51 65 60 63 54 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 26 21 19 16 25 Females 35 24 23 19 32 Retiring in 20 years: Males 26 23 19 17 25 Females 35 25 23 20 32 At 31 March 2013 Discount rate % 5.0 3.8 4.6 8.8 4.9 Salary inflation % 2.5 2.0 3.9 Pension inflation % 2.5 0.7 3.2 Healthcare cost inflation % 7.5 2.3 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 62 63 57 Females 50 65 61 63 53 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 27 21 22 16 25 Females 36 24 23 20 32 Retiring in 20 years: Males 27 23 22 16 25 Females 36 25 23 20 32 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 155 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit pension plan liabilities is as follows.
Defined benefit pension plans Latin America Grolsch Other Total Present Present Present Present value of value of Fair value value of Fair value value of Fair value scheme scheme of plan scheme of plan scheme of plan liabilities liabilities assets Total liabilities assets Total liabilities assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2012 172 319 352 33 102 84 18 593 436 157 Benefits paid 17 11 11 11 8 3 39 19 20 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 3 3 Employer contributions 17 17 2 2 19 19 Current service cost 1 4 4 3 3 8 8 1 Interest costs income 12 14 15 1 5 5 31 20 11 1 Remeasurements : 17 19 18 37 1 1 1 18 19 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 18 18 18 18 Gain loss from change in demographic assumptions 2 4 4 2 2 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 12 16 16 4 4 Experience losses gains 7 7 7 1 1 1 1 Settlements and curtailments 3 3 3 3 Exchange adjustments 4 12 14 2 4 4 20 18 2 At 31 March 2013 181 298 377 79 93 76 17 572 453 119 Benefits paid 16 11 11 5 5 32 16 16 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 3 3 Employer contributions 10 10 3 3 13 13 Current service cost 1 3 3 3 3 7 7 Past service credit 6 6 6 6 Interest costs income 9 12 14 2 2 3 1 23 17 6 Remeasurements: 23 17 10 27 5 2 7 11 8 3 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 10 10 10 10 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 8 8 8 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 11 20 20 2 2 7 7 Experience gains 4 3 3 3 2 5 10 2 12 Exchange adjustments 11 22 28 6 7 8 1 4 20 16 At 31 March 2014 141 338 408 70 81 71 10 560 479 81 1 As restated see note 28.
156 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value of assets in pension schemes are as follows.
Defined benefit pension plans Latin America Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2014 Equities quoted 137 18 155 Bonds quoted 251 22 273 Cash and cash equivalents 26 26 Property and other 20 5 25 Total fair value of assets 408 71 479 Present value of scheme liabilities 141 338 81 560 Deficit surplus in the scheme 141 70 10 81 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 70 8 78 Pension liability recognised 141 18 159 At 31 March 2013 Equities quoted 126 20 146 Bonds quoted 235 21 256 Cash and cash equivalents 31 31 Property and other 16 4 20 Total fair value of assets 377 76 453 Present value of scheme liabilities 181 298 93 572 Deficit surplus in the scheme 181 79 17 119 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 79 8 87 Pension liability recognised 181 25 206 In respect of defined benefit pension plans in South Africa, which are included in Other, the pension asset recognised is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
Pension fund assets have been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been completed.
The pension asset recognised in respect of Grolsch is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil due to the terms of the pension agreement with the pension fund.
The movements in the asset ceiling are as follows.
Defined benefit pension plans Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m Asset ceiling at 1 April 2012 33 7 40 Interest costs 1 1 2 Change in the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest costs 46 1 47 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 Asset ceiling at 31 March 2013 79 8 87 Interest costs 3 1 4 Change in the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest costs 18 1 17 Exchange adjustments 6 2 4 Asset ceiling at 31 March 2014 70 8 78 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 157 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The movement in the post-employment medical benefit liabilities is as follows.
The obligations are wholly unfunded.
Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2012 66 46 112 Benefits paid 5 5 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 Current service cost 1 1 2 Interest costs 6 3 9 Remeasurements: 14 5 9 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 10 5 15 Loss from change in financial assumptions 2 3 5 Experience gains losses 6 7 1 Exchange adjustments 10 2 12 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2013 47 48 95 Benefits paid 3 3 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 Current service cost 1 1 2 Interest costs 4 1 5 Remeasurements: 3 5 2 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 2 2 Loss gain from change in financial assumptions 1 2 1 Experience losses gains 2 1 1 Exchange adjustments 7 1 8 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2014 46 41 87 The sensitivity of the pension plan and medical and other post-retirement benefit liabilities at 31 March 2014 to changes in the principal actuarial assumptions is as follows.
Medical and other postDefined benefit pension plans retirement benefits Change in Increase Decrease Increase Decrease assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate 1% 63 80 7 8 Salary growth rate 1% 8 7 Pension growth rate 1% 74 43 Life expectancy 1 year 9 9 2 2 Healthcare cost inflation 1% 9 8 The above sensitivity analyses assume a change in a single assumption while all other assumptions are held constant.
When calculating the sensitivities, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, consistent with the method used to calculate the defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet.
For funded defined benefit plans, the group is required to provide funding where the fair value of the assets of the scheme are not sufficient to meet the defined benefit obligations.
The South Africa pension schemes no longer have any active members: therefore, funding will only be required in the event that the scheme becomes less than 100% funded.
The remaining funded defined benefit plans are funded using recommendations provided by the schemes actuaries.
Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the year ending 31 March 2015 are US$25 million.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 14 years.
158 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc Altria and the Santo Domingo Group SDG Altria is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 26.8% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
There were no transactions with Altria during theyear.
SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 14.0% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
During the year Bavaria SA and its subsidiaries made donations of US$14 million 2013: US$nil to the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo, pursuant to the contractual arrangements entered into at the time of the Bavaria transaction in 2005, under which it was agreed that the proceeds of the sale of surplus non-operating property assets owned by Bavaria SA and its subsidiaries would be donated to various charities, including the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo.
At 31 March 2014 US$nil 2013: US$nil was owing to the SDG.
Associates and joint ventures Details relating to transactions with associates and joint ventures are analysed below.
2014 2013 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 168 227 2 Purchases from joint ventures 93 97 3 Sales to associates 9 46 4 Sales to joint ventures 23 25 5 Dividends receivable from associates 224 113 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 903 886 7 Royalties received from associates 25 27 8 Royalties received from joint ventures 2 2 9 Management fees, guarantee fees and other recoveries received from associates 11 17 10 Management fees paid to joint ventures 2 2 11 Sale of associate to joint venture 21 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola Canners : inventory from Distell Group Ltd Distell and Associated Fruit Processors Pty Ltd AFP : and accommodation from Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd Tsogo Sun, all in South Africa.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors LLC MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Tsogo Sun, Delta Corporation Ltd Delta, Anadolu Efes Biracilik five Malt Sanayii AS Anadolu Efes and Distell.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors.
5 The group had dividends receivable from Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales SA, Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd, and Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services SA Castel of US$97 million 2013: US$21 million, Coca-Cola Canners of US$5 million 2013: US$11 million, Distell of US$20 million 2013: US$21 million, Tsogo Sun of US$34 million 2013: US$33 million, Delta of US$17 million 2013: US$12 million, International Trade and Supply Limited of US$18 million 2013: US$14 million, Grolsch UK Ltd of US$1 million 2013: US$1 million, and Anadolu Efes of US$32 million 2013: US$nil.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from Delta and Anadolu Efes.
8 The group received royalties from MillerCoors.
9 The group received management fees from Delta, guarantee fees from Delta and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola, and other recoveries from AFP.
10 The group paid management fees to MillerCoors.
11 In 2013 the group sold its interest in Fosters USA LLC to MillerCoors for cash consideration.
2014 2013 At 31 March US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates trade 42 68 2 Amounts owed by joint ventures 5 5 3 Amounts owed to associates 39 150 4 Amounts owed to joint ventures 16 14 1 Amounts owed by AFP, Delta, Anadolu Efes and BIH Angola.
3 Amounts owed to Coca-Cola Canners, Castel and Tsogo Sun.
At 31 March 2013 this balance included US$100 million received in compensation for the loan participation deposit relating to the Angolan businesses managed by Castel.
Guarantees provided in respect of associates bank facilities are detailed in note 21. c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2014 there were 25 2013: 26 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 159 33.
Post balance sheet events There are no material post balance sheet events.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows.
Effective interest Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2014 2013 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Africa & Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings SA Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller SAF Limited United Kingdom Holding company Financing 100% 100% SABMiller Southern Investments Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Procurement GmbH Switzerland Procurement 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller America Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% SABMiller Australia Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% SABMiller SI Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% Latin American operations 2 Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Argentina SA Isenbeck Argentina Brewing 100% 100% Cervecera del Valle SA Colombia Brewing 99% 99% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% 2 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 96% 96% 2 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 97% 98% 2 Cervecera San Juan SA Peru Brewing Soft drinks 92% 92% Cervecera Unin SA Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% 2 Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 94% 94% European operations 1 SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings Europe Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Netherlands Cooperatieve WA Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% Birra Peroni Srl Italy Brewing 100% 100% Compaia Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Zrt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Plzesk Prazdroj as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company Financing 100% 100% Miller Brewing Company USA Holding company 100% 100% African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller A&A Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Investments Ltd Mauritius Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller Investments II BV Netherlands Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller Nigeria Holdings BV Netherlands Holding company 50% 50% SABMiller Zimbabwe BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% Accra Brewery Ltd Ghana Brewing 60% 60% Ambo Mineral Water Share Company Ethiopia Soft drinks 40% 40% 3 Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 2 Cervejas fide Moambique SA Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Crown Beverages Ltd Kenya Soft drinks 80% 80% Heinrichs Syndicate Ltd Zambia Soft drinks 62% 62% Intafact Beverages Ltd Nigeria Brewing 38% 38% 2 International Breweries plc Nigeria Brewing 36% 36% 3 Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% 160 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Effective interest Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2014 2013 African operations continued Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% MUBEX Mauritius Procurement 100% 100% 2 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 62% 62% Pabod Breweries Ltd Nigeria Brewing 41% 38% Rwenzori Bottling Company Ltd Uganda Soft drinks 80% 80% Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd South Sudan Brewing 80% 80% Swaziland Beverages Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 2 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 36% 36% Voltic GH Ltd Ghana Soft drinks 80% 80% Voltic Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Soft drinks 50% 50% 2 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asia Pacific operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Asia Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Beverage Investments Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% 100% SKOL Beer Manufacturing Company Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Fosters Group Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% 100% Cascade Brewery Company Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% CUB Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% FBG Treasury Aust.
Pty Ltd Australia Financing 100% 100% Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% Queensland Breweries Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% South African operations The South African Breweries Pty Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks Holding 100% 100% company The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% The South African Breweries Maltings Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% 1 Operates and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
2 Listed in country of incorporation.
3 In April 2013 Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd merged into Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above includes those subsidiary undertakings which most significantly affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of those noted above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows.
African operations The groups effective interest in the majority of its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV and SABMiller Botswana BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to the groups majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd BBL and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd KBL SABMiller Botswana held a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Botswanas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africa BVs 10.1% indirect interest is held via a 16.8% interest in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd.
In April 2013 BBL and KBL merged into a single entity, with KBL the surviving legal entity.
The shareholding interests in KBL remain unchanged.
Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Maluti SABMiller Africa BV holds a 39% interest in Maluti with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, the Privatisation Unit 5.25%, and the Lesotho Unit Trust 4.75%.
Maluti is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day to day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with a group company.
Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 161 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest Country of Nature of Principal Name incorporation relationship activity 2014 2013 European operations Anadolu Efes Biracilik five Malt Turkey Associate Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% 1,2 SanayiiA Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Associate Brewing 50% 50% 2 International Trade and Supply Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Sales and distribution 40% 40% North American operations 2,3 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% 58% African operations BIH Brasseries Internationales Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 2 HoldingLtd principally located in Africa Socit des Brasseries et Glacires France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 2 Internationales SA principally located in Africa 2,4 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Spa Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% BIH Brasseries Internationales Gibraltar Associate Brewing Soft drinks 27% 27% 2 Holding Angola Ltd Marocaine dInvestissements et Morocco Associate Brewing 40% 40% 1,5 fide Services SA 2,4 Skikda Bottling Company SARL Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 2,4 Algerien SARL 2,4 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% 1,6 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 25% 25% Asia Pacific operations China Resources Snow British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing 49% 49% 2 Breweries Ltd subsidiaries located in China South African operations Coca-Cola Canners of Southern South Africa Associate Canning of beverages 32% 32% 2 Africa Pty Ltd 1,7 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 27% 29% Hotels and Gaming 1 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd South Africa Associate Holding company for Hotels and 40% 40% Gamingoperations 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 These entities report their financial results for each 12-month period ending 31 December.
3 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
Under the agreement SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
4 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
5 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest, together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40% and the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
6 Interests in this company are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 7 This entity reports its financial results for each 12-month period ending 30 June.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated, except that the principal subsidiaries of Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales SA, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd are in Africa, China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China, and International Trade and Supply Ltd operates in the United Arab Emirates.
162 Financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Balance sheet of SABMiller plc at 31 March 2014 2013 Notes US$m US$m Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 2 158 126 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 14,102 13,840 Derivative financial instruments 9 301 445 14,561 14,411 Current assets Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 4 5,412 1,954 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 5 2,293 4,566 Derivative financial instruments 9 52 75 Cash at bank and in hand 6 1,532 1,647 9,289 8,242 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 2,091 2,325 Net current assets 7,198 5,917 Total assets less current liabilities 21,759 20,328 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 2,387 3,998 Net assets 19,372 16,330 Capital and reserves Share capital 167 167 Share premium 6,648 6,581 Merger relief reserve 4,321 4,586 Other reserves 1,164 1,190 Profit and loss account 9,400 6,186 Total shareholders funds 10 19,372 16,330 The financial statements on pages 162 to 171 were approved by the board of directors on 2 June 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Alan Clark Jamie Wilson Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Advantage has been taken of the provisions of Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 which permit the omission of a separate profit and loss account for SABMiller plc.
The profit for the parent company for the year was US$827 million 2013: US$1,710 million.
The consolidated financial statements of the group include a consolidated cash flow statement, which includes the cash flows of the company.
The company has therefore taken advantage of the exemption granted by FRS 1 Revised 1996 not to present a cash flow statement.
