Where we operate A global footprint built with local expertise Sage has a presence in 23 countries and sells software all over the world.
Our established market positions provide us with a strong platform to bring products and services to both new and existing customers.
Localised customer experiences One of Sages strengths is providing highly-localised software and support to customers.
Were able to do this effectively because our teams are based in-country, so theyre close to the business and legislative issues that affect SMEs in these locations.
Rather than simply translating software into multiple languages, we build our products so that they fundamentally reflect the interface, functionality and legislative conventions a person would expect to see in their region.
Our ability and commitment to do this sets us apart from many other software vendors.
Our global products Whilst were focused on delivering highly-localised products, a key principle of our strategy is to take a more centralised approach to developing global product roadmaps so that we are more efficient, take advantage of our scale, share best practice across our business and utilise our global talent more effectively.
We therefore aim to perform the majority of development work for global products through teams that may be centralised in a particular country or region, and leave the remaining work to in-country teams who tailor the product to meet the needs of the local market.
Two important examples are Sage One and Sage ERP X3.
Sage One Sage One is our global cloud solution for start-up and small businesses.
"Following its launch in the UK & Ireland ""UKI"" in 2011, Sage One is now commercially available in 10 countries including the US, Canada, Germany, France, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and South Africa."
The relatively recent launch of Sage One, together with its low monthly subscription, means it is not yet a material contributor to Group revenue.
However, Sage One is an important product in helping us to grow market Americas share amongst start-up and small businesses.
Revenue 412m The main Sage One development team is based in the UK.
The architecture of Sage One is modular so that regional development teams can build Organic operating profit functionality addressing local legislation that seamlessly plugs in to the core 106m 25.7% margin 32% product.
Examples of these modules include quotations in France and debit Group revenue 3,585 employees notes in Spain.
Sage ERP X3 Sage ERP X3 is our global ERP solution for the mid-market.
It is sold in over 100 countries, serves 228,000 users across 4,800 customers and Key products is supported by 290 business partners.
Product Market segment Product type Sage ERP X3 is a sophisticated solution offering multi-currency, multiSage One SSB Accounting company, multi-language and multi-legislation support.
The latest version commercially available is Sage ERP X3 version 7, which is web-native Sage 50 US and Canada SSB Accounting and incorporates a modern new user interface design.
We have also Sage 100 SMB ERP announced the planned release of Sage ERP X3 Online, which offers Sage 300 SMB ERP our customers the benefits of greater customisation and control whilst Sage ERP X3 Mid-market ERP allowing them to deploy their infrastructure in the cloud.
Sage Payment Solutions Multi-segment Payments This flexibility means Sage ERP X3 can truly address a global market.
8 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key products Europe Product Market segment Product type Revenue 750m Sage One SSB Accounting and payroll Organic operating profit Sage 50 in the UK SSB Accounting and payroll 215m 28.6% margin Sage Ciel in France SSB Accounting and payroll 7,114 employees Sage Contaplus in Spain SSB Accounting Sage 100 in France SMB ERP Sage 200 in the UK SMB ERP Sage Murano in Spain SMB ERP 57% Group revenue Sage Of ce Line in Germany SMB ERP Sage ERP X3 Mid-market ERP Sage Pay Multi-segment Payments AAMEA Key products Revenue 144m Product Market segment Product type Sage One SSB Accounting and payroll Turn to pages Organic operating profit 48 and 49 Sage Pastel SSB Accounting and payroll 39m 27.2% margin 11% for regional Sage VIP Payroll SMB Payroll Group revenue 2,134 employees performance Sage Micropay SMB Payroll commentaries.
Accpac ERP SMB ERP Sage Handisoft Accountants Accounting Sage ERP X3 Mid-market ERP Sage Pay Multi-segment Payments There are an additional 142 employees based in centralised or Group functions 2013: 145.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9
