12 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 operational excellence Seniors long-standing emphasis on operational excellence is based on the principles of Lean, striving at all times for continuous improvement and the elimination of non-value-added activities and processes.
a bartlett kaiZen team Continuous imProvement in CNC machine programs and cutter signifiCantly imProved The Group has achieved great progress in this technologies to speed throughput benefiting Welding yield area in recent years, driving value creation capacity load and lead times.
Value stream Customer satisfaction is rated through the implementation of its operational mapping activities are frequently undertaken to by a companys ability to drive waste out excellence initiatives based around Lean reduce set-up time, manufacturing lead times of its manufacturing processes in order principles and sustained superior performance and inventory levels.
A good example of this is to maintain competitiveness.
in the eyes of its customers.
at Senior Flexonics Bartlett see bottom left.
The Bartlett team focused on the Exhaust Each operation is challenged to deliver good governanCe Gas Cooler manufacturing process in order operational improvements as part of the annual Governance procedures are designed to to improve throughput to better satisfy planning cycle, using Kaizen events and other allow each operation to embrace and customer demand.
Lean practices to reduce costs, improve manage operational excellence effectively, product flow and velocity and optimise use and to comply with all legal and regulatory In building a cooler, there are numerous ofresources.
requirements, without imposing an metal-joining operations used to make this unnecessary administrative burden.
A typical process used is Engineering teams at multiple locations are aim to ensure that employees act at all times MIG welding, and it was determined that the currently identifying technical improvements safely, with integrity and in an ethical manner.
first pass yield of this process was 98%, with the remaining 2% requiring timeconsuming rework.
looking after the environment Water A Kaizen team collected data on the Reducing the Groups Due to the addition of Upeca, the Groups welding process to identify improvement environmental impact helps to water usage has increased in 2014 from 276 opportunities using process mapping and reduce cost and to improve megalitres to 314 megalitres.
The team then designed an efficiencies and makes us more agile.
for acquisitions, further improvements have experiment that considered the variables in been made in water conservation, resulting The Groups main impacts on the the welding process and determined the root in an underlying 8% reduction in water environment are: energy consumption and causes of any failures.
Actions were taken to consumption.
When normalised to sales, associated CO2 emissions, waste generation error-proof the process, leading to improving the Groups water usage reduced to 0.33 and recycling, and water consumption.
The Groups objective is to improve energy This result improved product quality and iso 14001 efficiency by 10% between 2011 and 2015 shop floor velocity, delivering better service Across the Group, 93% of its manufacturing anditremains on track to fulfil this goal.
As a result, the Bartlett locations are certified to the ISO 14001 All of the Groups operations develop team was given the top Supplier Six environmental management standard and energy conservation projects, tailored to Sigma Project Award by one of Seniors the remainder, all of which are businesses their main energy consumption, and regularly largest customers.
acquired in the last three years, are in the monitor performance through energy usage.
Seniors Lean programme also continues to help to reduce energy demand by Co2 to turnover tonnes of Co2 improving the efficiency of how the Group emitted per m revenue manufactures and streamlines the process 110 104 to eliminate waste.
99 97 94 92 87 85 Waste In 2014, the total amount of waste generated by the Group was 13,358 tonnes, a 10% increase on the 2013 levels 12,124 tonnes.
It should be noted, however, that 2014 includes the additional Upeca businesses, acquired in April 2014.
On a comparative basis, adjusted for acquisitions, the 2014 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 level is slightly lower at 12,048 tonnes.
Over three-quarters of Seniors waste material isrecycled and the Group continues to design out the waste or find alternative waysto reuse the material.
com | Senior plc STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 SAFETy FOCUSED In 2014 Senior introduced a Zero Harm programme to strengthen its safety culture and to help furtherreduce the number and seriousness ofworkplace health and safety incidents.
Through the programme, the Group aims to make safety personal to every employee and improve the focus on accountability and behaviours.
The programme incorporates a number of components manufactured by the Group.
At the core of our programme is a set of 10 Golden Rules that apply globally across Senior operations.
These simple rules provide a concise and consistent level of control of the highest risks present in our businesses.
The rules have been translated into the 12 common languages used across the Group and are implemented by each business.
To strengthen the understanding of safety duties and obligations amongst the Groups line managers, a tailor-made course was developed in 2014.
The Leading for Safety course focused on safety leadership techniques and behavioural intervention along with Seniors 10Golden Rules.
The Group is committed toensuring all line managers with safety responsibilities receive this training bythe endof 2015.
After the training each manager isrequired to make a personal commitment tosafety with measurable improvement goals.
The third component involves improving the conformity with Seniors technical standards for HSE.
These global standards aredeveloped for the common HSE hazards and form the basis of our internal HSE audit programme.
HSE audits have been conducted against these standards and improvements continue.
We have also improved the attention given to establishing effective near miss incidents.
Senior has developed a near miss toolkit andguidance to enable more operations tointroduce the process.
environmental imProvements goal ofzero landfill all waste materials at senior aerosPaCe Weston are recycled or recovered.
Weston also set Since joining Senior in late 2011, about replacing the use of solvent with an Weston is sited Weston has transformed the way environmentally friendly product and by the itmanages its environmental affairs and end of 2014, had introduced aqueous cleaning in an area of outstanding significantly reduced the businesss for degreasing ofparts, eliminating over five environmental impact.
After appointing its first tonnes of solvents per year.
In 2013, the natural beauty and we Health, Safety and Environmental Manager in business also moved intoa purpose-built have deep roots inthe 2012, the management team undertook a manufacturing facility that incorporated a comprehensive review of its environmental number of energy efficiency measures, such community.
Caring for impacts and launched a number of as low energy lighting and heating system.
Thebusiness focused The move consolidated manufacturing from the environment is ontheir three most significant environmental four inefficient Victorian buildings into one impacts: the high amount of landfill waste state-of the-art building.
part of our licence created as a by-product of its manufacturing Senior Weston has now implemented an to operate.
process: its inefficient and old manufacturing environmental and safety management facilities and the high useof industrial solvents system accredited to the international standard Bob Brownridge for vapour degreasing of theproducts.
ISO14001 and OSHAS 18001 to ensure the Senior Aerospace Weston By designing out waste throughout the improvement programme is fully integrated manufacturing process, alongside finding within the business and sustained for alternate use for all of the different waste futureyears.
materials, Weston has now achieved its www.
