Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General Information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting These financial statements on pages 132 to 216 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except for the prior year adjusted item set out in note 4.
Going Concern In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 730m revolving credit facility, and 584.8m of US private placements notes.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had 1,314.8m of committed credit facilities and headroom of 545.0m.
Additionally the Group had a receivables financing facility of 60.0m.
The Groups stated intention is to reduce the Groups indebtedness to a more prudent level of financial gearing, and anticipates achieving this through the proceeds from the rights issue expected to be received in late April 2015 and the disposal of non-core businesses.
In December 2014, agreement was reached for the Group to defer its December 2014 covenant test until 31 May 2015.
When the covenant is calculated in May 2015, EBITDA will exclude the impact of charges arising from the Contract and Balance Sheet Review and Consolidated Net Borrowings will include the net proceeds from the equity rights issue, provided the proceeds are received by 30 June 2015.
Assessment of Going Concern The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity taking into account financial forecasts, the anticipated receipt of proceeds from the rights issue, proposed debt refinancing, and disposals of non-core businesses.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under the proposed terms of the debt covenants under the amended and restated credit facility, our ability to generate cash from trading activities, and the estimated gross proceeds of approximately 555m due in April 2015 from the proposed fully underwritten rights issue that is subject to shareholder approval.
Additionally there has been consideration of the potential reduction in debt levels from planned disposals of non-core businesses in 2015. Review Period In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future, which is interpreted as the period to December 2016.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks we face taking account of those identified from the outcome of the Contract and Balance Sheet Review.
Risks Relating to Rights Issue The Directors have considered in their assessment of going concern, the prospects of the rights issue proceeding, and the net proceeds of the rights issue being received by the Group, together with the risks attached to the rights issue not taking place.
The Directors highlight that the prospectus to raise approximately 555m before costs, was sent to shareholders at the same time as the accounts were signed.
The Underwriters agreement to underwrite the entire rights issues is conditional, amongst other things, on the Companys shareholders passing an ordinary resolution granting the Directors the authority to issue the rights issue shares at the general meeting scheduled to take place on 30 March 2015.
The Underwriters will also have termination rights in respect of, for example, breach by the Group of representations, warranties, and undertakings under the Underwriting Agreement.
The Underwriting Agreement will become unconditional following admission of the rights issue shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange, which is expected to be on the day following the general meeting 31 March 2015.
The Group may still be liable for any losses suffered from breaches of representations, warranties, and undertakings under the Underwriting Agreement.
