Directors Report How the element Maximum potential Performance metrics Operation of supports our value and payment used, weighting and theelement strategicobjectives atthreshold time period applicable Pension Executive Directors may participate Rupert Soames and Angus None in tax-approved pension plans Cockburn receive a cash allowance To provide funding for operated by the Company.
in lieu of pension equal to 30% of retirement.
A cash allowance is available for those not participating in a pension Ed Casey participates in the US scheme or whose participation 401k pension and receives a cash exceeds one or more tax allowance in lieu of pension equal allowances.
to 30% of base salary less the cost of participation in the US 401k plan.
Shareholding requirement Unvested performance shares or CEO 200% of salary None To support long-term commitment options are not taken into account.
CFO 150% of salary to the Company and the alignment Share price is measured at end of COO 150% of salary of employee interests with those of each financial year.
The Committee has the discretion Executives are required to retain in to increase the shareholding shares 50% of the net value of any requirements of the Executive performance shares vesting or Directors.
options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding requirement.
Notes to the policy table: Performance measures and targets The table below sets out a rationale for the performance conditions chosen for annual bonus, Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plans and how targets were set.
Performance measures and Element How targets are set rationale Annual bonus Financial and non-financial performance The performance targets are determined measures.
annually by the Committee taking into account The Committee selected the financial analyst consensus and the Companys measures based on the Companys Key forecasts.
Performance Indicators KPIs and the non-financial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Deferred Bonus Plan EPS is the sole measure to determine the EPS targets are set in reference to analyst vesting of matching shares.
forecasts, Company business plans, and levels The Committee selected EPS as it is a key of EPS required to support our share price performance indicator both for the Company goals.
Share price targets will be set to reflect what The Committee believes EPS can be directly the Committee determines as stretching, influenced by Executive decision-making while taking into account the recent fall in share also reflecting shareholder value.
price and historic share price levels, but also what is realistic and consistent with achievable levels of financial performance.
Performance Share Plan EPS, Relative TSR and Share Price or absolute The Committee consults with a selection of TSR the largest shareholders and the voting As set out above EPS is an important measure guidance services when determining targets of shareholder value which can also be for the Companys LTI arrangements.
influenced by Executive decision making Relative TSR reflects our performance relative to other companies in which investors could chose to invest The rationale for the share price measure is explicitly to recognise the recent falls in share price and to ensure that the full award is not delivered unless shareholders benefit from a significant recovery in value over the next three years.
Operating within our existing policy, the Committee are consulting with shareholders on possible changes to the measures in order to align Sercos incentive plans with the Groups Strategy Review.
