Strategic Report The Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews was Strategy Review and Funding undertaken in the second half of 2014, assisted by The Strategy Review determined that Sercos the accountancy firm, Ernst & Young LLP EY, and future focus will be as an international Business to involved Sercos divisional finance teams and contract Government B2G business with core sectors of: managers.
The scope of the work covered all our Justice and Immigration, Defence, Transport, Citizen contracts and balance sheets around the world.
The Review has identified the Contract Reviews were based on a structured interview need for the Group to have a sustainable balance process with the relevant business and divisional sheet for the future with a level of financial gearing teams assessing contractual features, operational and appropriate for the Groups business mix.
Significant financial performance and outlook.
The contracts were operational issues experienced during the year categorised as high, medium or low risk, based on the resulted in a marked deterioration in business level of risk, uncertainty and judgement existing in performance, and has led to the need to reduce the each contract.
High risk contracts underwent a full Groups debt levels.
The Group intends to reduce debt scope review including a full financial review of the by way of the proposed equity rights issue and the contract, a review of the accounting model including disposal of businesses identified as non-core to the challenging and stress testing the assumptions as well future strategy.
A strong Balance Sheet will restore as a contract balance sheet review.
Those contracts customer confidence in Serco and give the business a deemed to be medium risk were subject to a review of platform from which to implement the new strategy.
specific contract risks as well as a focus on the financial impact of the key contractual clauses and a review The proposed new equity to be raised through the of the contract balance sheet.
Where a contract was rights issue is fully underwritten and a prospectus will deemed low risk, no further work was undertaken.
be issued to shareholders on 12 March 2015.
The rights Full scope reviews were carried out on 19 contracts issue, which is subject to shareholder approval, is and specific scope reviews on 114 contracts.
In terms scheduled to complete in late April 2015 when gross of the Balance Sheet reviews, these assessed the funds of approximately 555m approximately 528m recoverability of all assets including goodwill, after costs are expected to bereceived.
property, plant, and equipment, intangibles and receivables, as well as a review of potential unrecorded Planned non-core disposals include the majority of liabilities.
These reviews also encompassed balance the Global Services private sector BPO business, the sheet items pertaining to financial instruments and tax.
Environmental and Leisure businesses in the UK and the Great Southern Rail business in Australia.
These The onerous contract provisions, asset impairments businesses are disclosed as assets held for sale in the and other provisions made were based on the findings balance sheet.
from the risk based review of the Groups contracts, together with a number of financial, commercial and In the fourth quarter of 2014 it became clear that the legal reviews of the medium and high risk contracts reduced trading outlook and impact of the onerous and the business unit balance sheets.
There is a contract provisions, asset impairments and other high level of uncertainty and judgement involved in charges could result in the Group failing its debt assessing the assumptions underlying these charges, covenant obligations for 2014 and 2015.
The Group with a potentially broad range of outcomes including announced on 10 November 2014 that it would be projecting contract and business performance for seeking discussions with its lenders, to ensure Serco many years in to the future.
However, we believe that remained compliant with the terms of its debt we have taken the best estimate of the likely outcome covenants.
Agreement was reached in December based on the information currently available.
2014 to allow the Group to defer its December 2014 financial covenant test until 31 May 2015 on the The 10 November 2014 trading update explained condition that the proposed Rights Issue is completed that the progress of the Contract and Balance Sheet prior to this date.
In addition, a number of changes Reviews brought management to a point where it was were made to the way in which the covenant test will able to provide an initial estimate of the impairments, be calculated to exclude the financial impact of the write-downs and onerous contract provisions that were Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews whilst including likely to be required at the 2014 year end.
These were the impact of the Rights Issue on net debt.
A further estimated to total around 1.5bn, approximately half agreement has now been reached with lenders, of which related to the impairment of goodwill and conditional on the Rights Issue proceeding as planned intangibles.
The assessment of the carrying value of and on up to 450m of the proceeds being used to goodwill and intangible assets reflected the likely repay gross debt.
outcome of the Strategy Review and the resulting planned disposal of non-core businesses.
The onerous Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews contract provisions reflected the re-assessment of the A part of the Strategy Review involved conducting a scale of potential future losses on the larger lossreview ahead of the year-end of major contracts and making contracts in the light of the latest operational the Balance Sheet the Contract and Balance Sheet developments and the worse than expected financial Reviews, based on management accounts at 30 performance in the year.
There was a particular focus on the carrying value of assets and of contracts that were experiencing operational challenges.
In our July 2014 update statement and at the time of our Half Year Results in August 2014, the Group reported that the results of the Contract and Balance Sheet Reviews could have an impact on our profits for the year.
