Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Onerous contract provisions OCPs arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the remuneration expected to be received.
Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational allocation of shared costs that can be linked to the activity performed within contracts which have been systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is used as a proxy to activity.
The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an early exit and the expected loss over the remaining contract period.
Where a customer has an option to extend a contract and the Group is expected to make a loss during the extension period, this is included within the calculation.
However, where a profit can be reasonably expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.
Further details of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Net Investments in Foreign Operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends Payable Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Segmental Information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Board of Directors as a body.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the CODM.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As described below, many of these areas of judgement also involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.
An inherent level of judgement covering all of the items below exists regarding whether an amount recognised in the financial statements represents an error or a change in estimate.
An error exists when an amount is recognised based on information that was available when the prior period financial statements were issued and could be reasonably expected to have been obtained and taken into account when those financial statements were prepared.
The only such item relates to the mistreatment of certain hedging relationships as explained in note 4.
Provisions for Onerous Contracts Determining whether provisions are required for loss making contracts requires significant judgements to be made regarding the ability of the Company to maintain or improve operational performance.
Judgements can also be made regarding the outcome of matters dependent on the behaviour of the customer in question.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates made, either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery.
In recent years, additional contractual risks have been passed from customers to the Group, which has involved matters over which the Group has limited control and where there is insufficient contractual compensation for the changes.
These include Service User volumes and the level of customer use of assets where we have a requirement to fund repairs and maintenance.
Certain events in the current year have led to a significant crystallisation of such risks, resulting in a charge to onerous contract provisions of 476.1m.
Further details can be seen in note 30.
Additionally, and as a result of certain contracts becoming onerous in the period, contract specific assets including property, plant and equipment, bid costs, phase-in costs, accrued income and prepayment balances of 114.7m have been impaired.
Impairment of Assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our business and any significant changes to the markets in which we operate.
The total value of assets which are covered by this assessment process after previous impairments is 1,379.4m 2013: 2,628.7m, which is the maximum exposure related to this judgement.
We mitigate the risk associated with this judgement by putting in place processes and guidance for the finance community and internal review procedures.
