Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General Information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting These financial statements on pages 132 to 216 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except for the prior year adjusted item set out in note 4.
Going Concern In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 730m revolving credit facility, and 584.8m of US private placements notes.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had 1,314.8m of committed credit facilities and headroom of 545.0m.
Additionally the Group had a receivables financing facility of 60.0m.
The Groups stated intention is to reduce the Groups indebtedness to a more prudent level of financial gearing, and anticipates achieving this through the proceeds from the rights issue expected to be received in late April 2015 and the disposal of non-core businesses.
In December 2014, agreement was reached for the Group to defer its December 2014 covenant test until 31 May 2015.
When the covenant is calculated in May 2015, EBITDA will exclude the impact of charges arising from the Contract and Balance Sheet Review and Consolidated Net Borrowings will include the net proceeds from the equity rights issue, provided the proceeds are received by 30 June 2015.
Assessment of Going Concern The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity taking into account financial forecasts, the anticipated receipt of proceeds from the rights issue, proposed debt refinancing, and disposals of non-core businesses.
In order to satisfy ourselves that we have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under the proposed terms of the debt covenants under the amended and restated credit facility, our ability to generate cash from trading activities, and the estimated gross proceeds of approximately 555m due in April 2015 from the proposed fully underwritten rights issue that is subject to shareholder approval.
Additionally there has been consideration of the potential reduction in debt levels from planned disposals of non-core businesses in 2015. Review Period In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future, which is interpreted as the period to December 2016.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks we face taking account of those identified from the outcome of the Contract and Balance Sheet Review.
Risks Relating to Rights Issue The Directors have considered in their assessment of going concern, the prospects of the rights issue proceeding, and the net proceeds of the rights issue being received by the Group, together with the risks attached to the rights issue not taking place.
The Directors highlight that the prospectus to raise approximately 555m before costs, was sent to shareholders at the same time as the accounts were signed.
The Underwriters agreement to underwrite the entire rights issues is conditional, amongst other things, on the Companys shareholders passing an ordinary resolution granting the Directors the authority to issue the rights issue shares at the general meeting scheduled to take place on 30 March 2015.
The Underwriters will also have termination rights in respect of, for example, breach by the Group of representations, warranties, and undertakings under the Underwriting Agreement.
The Underwriting Agreement will become unconditional following admission of the rights issue shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange, which is expected to be on the day following the general meeting 31 March 2015.
The Group may still be liable for any losses suffered from breaches of representations, warranties, and undertakings under the Underwriting Agreement.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Risks Relating to Refinancing The Group has entered into agreements with its lenders and noteholders to refinance its current debt facilities, which are conditional on the rights issue proceeding, the Group receiving the net proceeds of the rights issue and the Group repaying up to 450m of its debt facilities.
Should the rights issue not proceed the existing debt facilities will remain in place, subject to meeting ongoing financial debt covenant tests.
The Group expects to be able to meet its financial covenant tests under the existing debt facilities on 31 May 2015 in respect of the year ending 31 December 2014.
However, unless further waivers or amendments are granted by the lenders, it is anticipated that the Group would breach its financial covenant tests in respect of the 12 months ending 30 June 2015 under the revolving credit facility and the receivables financing agreement when they are tested 90 days after 30 June 2015, which would trigger a cross-default under the US private placement notes.
Following any such breach of financial covenants or cross-default, the lenders or noteholders as applicable would be entitled to demand the accelerated repayment in full of any amounts outstanding under the relevant existing debt facilities, including any interest due and the payment of a make-whole amount paid to noteholders under the US private placement notes.
In this event, the Group does not anticipate that it would have the funds available to repay such amounts at that time, and would need to take alternative steps in order to be able to continue as a going concern, such as seeking: to negotiate further waivers of its financial covenants under the existing financing agreements with the lenders and noteholders: to establish alternative long-term committed debt facilities with wider covenants to replace the existing financing agreements: to derive other forms of funding, such as through a new equity restructuring with private capital investors or a conversion by the Groups lenders of existing debt into equity: and or to make disposals of further assets not already considered for disposal, subject to necessary approvals from lenders and note holders.
Assessment Despite the challenges and uncertainties which remain in our business, we are making good progress in implementing the plan of actions coming out of the Strategy Review including refocusing the Group as an international B2G business, and in rebuilding trust and confidence with the UK Government.
Sercos more focused core will increasingly benefit from the transferability of skills and knowledge from one public service market or geography to another.
The portfolio also offers a degree of risk diversification and allows adaptation to the requirements of changing Governments at different times.
As stated above the Group is embarking on a rights issue in order to substantially reduce its debt, and give it a firm financial foundation for its future.
However, whilst the rights issue is fully underwritten, it is scheduled to complete within 6 weeks after the date of signing these accounts, and is dependent, inter alia, upon shareholders approving the proposed fundraising.
The Directors expect the fundraising to be successfully completed by 24 April 2015.
The shareholder approval is expected to be received on 30 March 2015, but at the time of signing these accounts there remains a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast a significant doubt on Sercos ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore that it may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.
The Directors believe that the fundraising is likely to be successfully completed by 24 April 2015, and they therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company together, the Group up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: i has the power over the investee: ii is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii has the ability to use its power to affect the returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profits or losses and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
145 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following changes to IFRSs became effective in the current reporting period: Title Type Background Impact on Serco IAS 32 Financial Amendment to existing IAS 32 affects the offsetting of financial Historically, financial assets and financial Instruments: standard assets and liabilities and was amended liabilities have not been offset within the Presentation to clarify certain requirements on Group financial statements as there has offsetting to make application more been limited ability to do so.
Therefore, the impact of the amendments are not expected to have a material impact on future transactions and no adjustment is needed for the required retrospective application.
IAS 39 Financial Amendment to IAS 39 was amended to clarify that As the novation of derivatives instruments Instruments: existing standard there is no need to discontinue hedge has not been performed at Serco recently, Recognition and accounting if a hedging derivative is the application of the amendments Measurement novated provided certain criteria are did not impact on the Group financial met.
In order to apply the amendments statements when applied retrospectively.
and continue hedge accounting, novation to a central counterparty must happen as There is no expectation to novate any a consequence of laws or regulations or currently held derivatives and therefore the introduction of laws or regulations.
there is no future impact anticipated as a result of this change.
New Standards and Interpretations not Applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following changes to IFRSs have not been applied in these financial statements but could potentially have a significant impact: Title Type Status Background Impact on Serco IFRS 9 New Pending EU The standard replaces IAS 39 and IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement Financial standard endorsement, introduces new requirements for and disclosures of financial instruments Instruments expected prior classifying and measuring financial and the total value of financial instruments to the effective instruments and puts in place a new at 31 December 2014 was 354.0m of date of 1 January hedge accounting model that is designed assets 2013: 361.0m and 941.3m 2018 to be more closely aligned with how of liabilities 2013: 1,087.5m, further entities undertake risk management detail of which can be seen in note 33. activities when hedging financial and nonHowever, it is not practicable to provide financial risk exposures.
a reasonable estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
IFRS 15 New Pending EU The new standard supersedes all of the The new revenue standard could result Revenue standard endorsement, following: in a delay of revenues and profits over expected prior those previously recognised, in particular to the effective IAS 11 Construction contracts: with respect of percentage of completion date of 1 January IAS 18 Revenue: accounting and where elements of 2017 IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes: revenues associated with transition IFRIC 15 Agreements for the activities also referred to as phase-in construction of real estate: have been recognised in the early stages IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from of contracts.
Given the significance of customers: and the standard we are unable to provide SIC-31 Revenue Barter transactions the quantum of any such impact until a involving advertising services.
full review of our entire contract base has been completed.
The new standard is intended to bring greater transparency and comparability It is not anticipated that the standard to financial reporting, and was initialised will be adopted early, which would be as part of the US GAAP convergence permitted on endorsement by the EU.
Significant Accounting Policies continued In addition to the items detailed above, the changes to IFRSs listed below have not been applied in these financial statements and the Directors do not expect that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Title Type Background Status IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Amendments Applying the Pending EU endorsement, expected prior Other Entities consolidation exception to the effective date of 1 January 2016.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment Disclosure initiative Pending EU endorsement, expected prior to the effective date of 1 January 2016.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs: Amendments Various matters Endorsed 17 December 2014.
Effective 2010-2012 Cycle: for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 1 July 2014.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures IAS 38 Intangible Assets Annual Improvements to IFRSs: Amendments Various matters Endorsed 18 December 2014.
Effective 2011-2013 Cycle: for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International 1 July 2014.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 40 Investment Property IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and Amendment Clarification of acceptable Pending EU endorsement, expected prior IAS 38 Intangible Assets methods of depreciation to the effective date of 1 January 2016. and amortisation.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Amendment Clarification of Endorsed 17 December 2014.
Effective accounting for employee for annual periods beginning on or after contributions set out 1 July 2014. in the formal terms of a defined benefit plan.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Amendment Accounting for Pending EU endorsement, expected prior acquisitions of interests in to the effective date of 1 January 2016. joint operations.
Fair Value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is estimated using another valuation technique.
There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards.
These are share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 Leases, or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS 2 Inventories or value in use under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Calculating the fair value of revenue typically does not require a significant level of judgement, the exceptions to this are the following areas further detail of which is provided in note 3 : Uncontracted variations or claims.
Revenue is deferred when payment is received in advance of performing the related service or delivering the associated goods, and released when the relevant contractual commitment is fulfilled.
Revenue Recognition: Repeat Service-based Contracts Revenue on repeat service-based contracts is recognised as services are provided.
Where initial contract costs phase-in costs are paid for by the customer, revenue is recognised when the related costs are incurred.
147 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Revenue Recognition: Long-term Project-based Contracts The Group has a number of long term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long term project-based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, but where a more accurate basis is available that alternative methodology is used.
Where the outcome of a long term project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Revenue Recognition: Other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established.
Bid Costs and Phase-in Costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain, being the point at which the Group is awarded preferred bidder status.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Bid costs are only capitalised to the extent that it is expected that the related contract will generate sufficient future economic benefits to at least offset the amortisation charge.
Phase in costs that are incremental and directly related to the initial set-up of contracts are capitalised within trade and other receivables and are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, except where they are specifically reimbursed as part of the terms of the contract when they are recognised as revenue.
Determining whether bid and phase in costs are recoverable involves a high level of judgement as it requires a forecast to be prepared for the expected future profitability of the contract, taking into account the likely future costs and revenues associated with the services not yet performed.
The level of bid and phase in costs can be seen in note 24 and further detail of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Foreign Currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Assets Classified as Held For Sale Non current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the Group expects the sale to be completed within one year.
Amounts classified as held for sale are measured as the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Assessing whether the criteria are met requires judgement, in particular with regards to whether the subject of the assessment is in a suitable condition for sale.
In addition, the calculation of the value of any goodwill to be allocated to the sale is dependent on an assessment of the likely sales proceeds and the likely structure of the transaction.
Investments in Joint Ventures A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate or joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where the Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Determining whether joint control exists requires a level of judgement, based upon specific facts and circumstances which exist at the year end.
Details of the unconsolidated joint ventures is provided in notes 6 and 7.
Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash-generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Where part of a CGU with goodwill is sold, the attributable amount is calculated based on the future discounted cash flows leaving the Group as a proportion of the total CGU future discounted cash flows.
The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisors and any amount of consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internal forecasts.
There were no material acquisitions in the current or prior year.
Other Intangible Assets Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed and are amortised from the date of completion.
Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent incremental value expected to be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business.
These assets are amortised over the average length of the related contracts.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Group in order to generate future economic value through normal business operations.
The underlying assets are amortised over the period from which the Group expects to benefit, which is typically between three to eight years.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The period of expected benefit, and therefore period of amortisation, it typically between three and eight years.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
149 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued While customer relationship and licence assets will arise from specific transactions and can be clearly identified, both software and development type assets can include a significant level of internal costs and determining whether these are directly incremental to the creation of the specific asset requires a high level of judgement further detail of which is provided in note 3.
Pension related intangibles represent assets arising in relation to the Groups right to manage and operate contracts where there is a defined benefit pension scheme and it is not virtually certain that contributions will be recovered from the customer but where the Groups obligation to contribute to the scheme ends when the contract ends.
The intangible assets represent the Groups share of scheme net liabilities on the date that contracts commence and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
At the creation of such assets, a reasonable level of judgement is required in order to determine if the specific rules and obligations associated with the scheme allow the responsibility of paying down the remaining deficit at the end of a contract to be passed on to the new supplier, and legal advice is sought to mitigate this risk.
As explained in note 11, during the year a settlement was made to the Trustees of the Docklands Light Railway Pension Scheme in respect of a legal claim made against us to fund the pension deficit.
Whilst the payment was made to resolve the issue with the customer, the historic accounting for the pension scheme remains appropriate and the judgement applied in recognising the pension related intangible was appropriate at the time based on the legal documentation and advice provided.
Property, Plant and Equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short-leasehold building improvements The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15%20% Motor vehicles 10%50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20%33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Given that there is limited history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the depreciation rates is not considered to involve significant judgement.
Asset Impairment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets including goodwill at each reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
As the impairment of assets has been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in note 3.
If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there is any impairment loss.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses and reversals are recognised immediately within administrative expenses within the income statement unless it is considered to be an exceptional item.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense associated with the individuals.
Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive it and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Group, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Calculation of the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in note 3.
Defined Benefit Obligations Arising from Contractual Obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the estimated amount of scheme deficit that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Multi-employer Pension Schemes Multi-employer pension schemes are classified as either a defined contribution pension scheme or a defined benefit pension scheme under the terms of the scheme.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 33.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 33.
151 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Fair value Hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Share-based Payment The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 38.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade Receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost being the same as fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure that amounts recognised represent the recoverable amount.
A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due, which is achieved by creating an allowance for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information available at each reporting date.
Key indicators of impairment include disputes with customers over commercial positions, or where debtors have significant financial difficulties such as historic default of payments or information that suggests bankruptcy or financial reorganisation are a reasonable possibility.
The majority of contracts entered into by the Group are with government organisations or are blue chip private sector companies and therefore historic levels of default are relatively low and as a result the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be significant.
When a trade receivable is expected to be uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non-recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date when the likelihood is considered to be greater than 50%.
