Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder information E-communications Financial calendar Shire offers shareholders the ability to access shareholder Second interim dividend payment April 2015 documents, such as its annual reports and notices of AGMs, Annual General Meeting April 2015 by way of e-communications as an alternative to receiving First quarter results announcement April 2015 paper copies through the post.
Second quarter results announcement July 2015 To register for e-communications, simply log onto First interim dividend payment October 2015 www.
co. uk myportfolio and follow the online Third quarter results announcement October 2015 instructions.
To start, you will require your shareholder Annual results announcement February 2016 reference number which you will fi nd on your share certifi cate Second interim dividend payment April 2016 or dividend tax voucher.
Following registration, you will need to alter your mailing preference to e-communications and Dividends confi rm your email address.
Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their Shareholders who do not elect to receive documents or dividends: notifi cations via e-communications will continue to receive directly into their bank account : or paper copies.
Shareholder security Shire preferred option.
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence The quickest and most effi cient way to receive your concerning investment matters.
These are typically from dividendsis to have them paid directly into your bank overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, account.
Those selecting this payment method receive a tax offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or voucher with each payment.
To change how you receive your high risk shares in US or UK investments.
dividends, either log on to www.
co. uk myportfolio or contactEquiniti.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Income Access Share IAS arrangements company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment Shareholders who elect, or are deemed to have elected, advice: toreceive their dividends via the IAS arrangements will make sure you get the name of the person and organization: receive their dividends from a UK source rather than directly from the Company which is an Irish tax resident company check that they are properly authorized by the FCA before forUK tax purposes.
getting involved by visiting www.
uk register : and Shareholders who hold 25,000 or fewer shares at the fi first report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 dividend record date after becoming a shareholder in or by completing an online form at: www.
uk theCompany will be deemed to have elected to receive consumers scams report-scam share-fraud-form theirdividends under the IAS arrangements, unless they electotherwise.
If you deal with an unauthorized fi rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Shareholders who hold more than 25,000 shares and who Compensation Scheme.
wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS Election.
All elections remain in force indefi nitely Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made an IAS endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Election, or are deemed to have made an IAS Election, More detailed information on this or similar activity can be dividends will be received from an Irish source and will found on the FCA website: www.
uk consumers scams betaxed accordingly.
This warning has been issued by the Financial Conduct An IAS dividend election form can be found on Shires Authority and endorsed by the Institute of Chartered website at: http: www.
com shireplc en investors Secretaries and Administrators.
 shareholderforms ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range ofcharities.
Find out more about ShareGift: Website: www.
