Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the fi financial statements in accordance with applicable We confi rm that to the best of our knowledge: law and regulations.
the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Company law requires the Directors to prepare fi financial accounting principles generally accepted in the United States statements for each fi financial year.
Under that law the of America, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors are required to prepare the Group fi financial financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the statements in accordance with accounting principles undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: generally accepted in the United States of America.
Under the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development company law the Directors must not approve the accounts and performance of the business and the position of the unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation ofthe state of affairs of the Group and of the profi t or loss taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal ofthe Group for that period.
risks and uncertainties that they face: and In preparing the Group fi financial statements, the Directors the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a arerequired to: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide properly select and apply accounting policies: theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements within accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America are insuf cient toenable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue Dr. Flemming Ornskov asagoing concern.
Chief Executive Offi cer February 24, 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the fi financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
