Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Cautionary statements Statements included herein that are not historical facts are the actions of certain customers could affect Shires ability forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements tosell or market products pro tably.
Fluctuations in buying or involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject distribution patterns by such customers can adversely affect tochange at any time.
In the event such risks or uncertainties Shires revenues, financial conditions or results of operations: materialize, Shires results could be materially adversely investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities affected.
The risks and uncertainties include, but are not or law enforcement agencies relating to Shires activities in limited to, that: the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result Shires products may not be a commercial success: insigni cant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines: product sales from ADDERALL XR and INTUNIV are subject to generic competition: adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, including Shires ability to enforce and defend patents and the failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an other intellectual property rights required for its business, adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on Shires revenues, inatimely manner for Shires products may affect future financial condition or results of operations: revenues, financial condition and results of operations: Shire faces intense competition for highly quali ed personnel Shire conducts its own manufacturing operations for from other companies and organizations.
Shire is undergoing certainof its products and is reliant on third party contract a corporate reorganization and was the subject of an manufacturers to manufacture other products and to provide unsuccessful acquisition proposal and the consequent goods and services.
Some of Shires products or ingredients uncertainty could adversely affect Shires ability to attract are only available from a single approved source for and or retain the highly skilled personnel needed for Shire manufacture.
Any disruption to the supply chain for any tomeet its strategic objectives: ofShires products may result in Shire being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result failure to achieve Shires strategic objectives with respect to inShire being unable to do so on a commercially viable the acquisition of NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. may adversely basisfor some period of time: affect Shires financial condition and results of operations, the manufacture of Shires products is subject to extensive and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in oversight by various regulatory agencies.
Regulatory Shires fi lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, approvals or interventions associated with changes to including those risks outlined in pages 32 to 39. manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to signi cant delays, an increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay of new product launches: Shire has a portfolio of products in various stages of researchand development.
The successful development ofthese products is highly uncertain and requires signi cant expenditures and time, and there is no guarantee that theseproducts will receive regulatory approval: ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 175 Shire plc Annual report and financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 Of cers and professional advisors Contents Directors Offi cers and professional advisors 176 Dr. Flemming Ornskov Dominic Blakemore Directors report 177 William Burns Directors responsibilities statement 182 Dr. Steven Gillis Independent Auditors report 183 Dr. David Ginsburg Profi t and loss account 185 David Kappler Balance sheet 185 Susan Kilsby Notes to the fi financial statements 186 Anne Minto OBE David Stout Company Secretary Tatjana May Registered of ce 22 Grenville Street St Helier JE4 8PX Jersey Group Headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus Dublin 24 Republic of Ireland Auditor Deloitte LLP London United Kingdom 176 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors report The Directors present their annual report and the audited Income Access Share arrangements fi financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014.
Shire operates Income Access Share IAS arrangements enabling shareholders to choose whether they receive their Principal activity and business review dividends from a company tax resident in the Republic of Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Ireland or from a company tax resident in the UK.
Further Shire, or the Company is a leading biopharmaceutical details in respect of the IAS arrangements can be found company that focuses on developing and marketing inNote 23 of the Shire Annual Report.
innovative medicines for patients with rare diseases and otherspecialty conditions.
Results and dividends A profi t on ordinary activities before taxation of $1,481.2 The Company has grown both organically and through million was recorded for the year ended December 31, acquisition, completing a series of major transactions that 2014 year ended December 31, 2013: loss before taxation have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth of$69.9million.
The Company will continue to conduct itsown research and development R&D, focused on The net assets of the Company increased from $10,474.1 rarediseases, as well as evaluate companies, products million for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $12,058.9 andpipeline opportunities that offer a strategic fi t and million for the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily havethe potential to deliver value to all of the Companys asaresult of the break fee received of $1,635.4 million stakeholders: patients, physicians, policy makers, payers, following the termination of a cooperation agreement with investors and employees.
The principal legislation under which the Company operates Dividends paid and dividend policy is the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and regulations made The Company paid dividends amounting to $8.9 million thereunder.
The Ordinary Shares of the Company are listed intheyear 2013: $5.7 million.
In accordance with onthe London Stock Exchange in the UK, and American IASarrangements, the Company directed Shire Depositary Shares ADS, representing three Ordinary Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to pay dividends totaling Shares of the Company, evidenced by an American $112.7million 2013: $91.1 million to those shareholders Depositary Receipt issued by Shires Depositary, Citibank, whochoose to receive their dividends from a company N. A. are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market in taxresident in the UK.
A fi first interim dividend for the six months to June 30, 2014 Business review of3.83 cents 2.24 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to The Business review of the Group can be found in the 11.49 cents per ADS, was paid in October 2014.
The Board consolidated fi financial statements and Annual Report and has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 19.09 cents Accounts of the Company for the year to December 31, 12.51 pence per Ordinary Share equivalent to 57.27 cents 2014, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Listing per ADS for the six months to December 31, 2014.
Authority requirements the Shire Annual Report : in the This is consistent with Shires stated policy of paying a Chairmans review on pages 2 and 3: the Chief Executive dividend biannually, set in US cents per Ordinary Share.
Offi cers review on pages 4 to 7: and the Review of our Typically, the fi first interim payment each year will be higher business on pages 42 to 59.
The Shire Annual Report also than the previous years fi first interim US Dollar dividend.
provides a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Dividend growth for the full year will be reviewed by the facing the Company and the Group as well as the Groups Boardwhen the second interim dividend is determined.
risk management objectives and policies that are in place toassist in mitigating the potential impact.
Details of the Liquidity, cash ow and going concern Companys fi financial risks can be found in Note N on page The Company and the Groups business activities, together 192 to these fi financial statements.
with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Shires Annual Report During the year Shire plc continued in its capacity as in the Chairmans review, Chief Executive Offi cers review theparent company for the Group in the management of andthe review of our business.
The fi financial position of the itssubsidiaries.
Company and the Group, its cash fl ows, liquidity position The Company is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
andborrowing facilities are described in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the review of our business.
Key performance indicators Thereview ofour business also includes information in The Companys key performance indicators are the same respect of the Groups objectives, policies and processes asthe Groups.
For details of the Groups key performance formanaging capital: its fi financial risk management indicators see page 12 in the Shire Annual Report.
objectives: details ofitshedging activity: and its exposures tocredit risk andliquidity risk.
Details of the Companys fi financial instruments are disclosed in Note N on page 193 tothesefi financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 177 Directors report continued Term Loan Agreements The 2015 Facility Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of 2015 Facilities Agreement default, including requirements that the ratio of Net Debt On January 11, 2015, the Company entered into a $850 toEBITDA of the Group each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility million Facility Agreement with, among others, Citi Global Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Markets Limited acting as mandated lead arranger and Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement, bookrunner the 2015 Facility Agreement.
The 2015 except that following certain acquisitions, including the FacilityAgreement comprises a $850 million term loan facility.
merger with NPS Pharma, the Company may elect to increase The Company has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition subsidiaries that are or become additional borrowers under was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 The 2015 Facilities Agreement, which matures on January 10, orJune 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest 2016, may be used only to fi finance the purchase price each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement must not payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS beless than 4.0:1.
Pharmaceuticals Inc. NPS including certain related costs.
The 2015 Facility Agreement restricts subject to certain The maturity date may be extended twice, at the Companys exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial option, by six months on each occasion.
On February 23, indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or 2015, the Company requested the utilization of $850 million guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory under the 2015 Facilities Agreement to partially fi finance the prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of of Shire.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business Interest on any loans made under the 2015 Facility Agreement disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which prepayment of the facility, subject to certain exceptions.
may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the Events of default under the facility include: i non-payment election of the Company, or as otherwise agreed with the ofany amounts due under the facility, ii failure to satisfy any lenders.
The interest rate applicable to the 2015 Facility fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50% per annum and increases ofthe fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other by0.25% per annum 6 months after the date of the defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain agreement and on each subsequent date falling at threeinsolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse month intervals thereafter.
changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial The Company shall also pay a commitment fee on the condition of Shire and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes available but unutilized commitments under $850 million unlawful for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties termloan facility for the availability period applicable to tothe 2015 Facility Agreement to perform their obligations eachfacility.
With effect from fi first utilization, the commitment or viii if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is a party fee rate will be 35% of the applicable margin.
Before fi first tothe 2015 Facility Agreement repudiates the 2015 Facility utilization, the commitment fee rate will increase in stages Agreement or any other fi finance document, among others.
from 0% to 35% of the applicable margin over a period of The 2015 Facility Agreement is governed by English law.
2013 Facilities Agreement On November 11, 2013, the Company entered into a $2,600 million facilities agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acting as lead arranger and agent the 2013 Facilities Agreement.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement comprised two credit facilities: i a $1,750 million term loan facility and ii a $850 million term loan facility.
On December 13, 2013 and at various points during the yearto December 31, 2014, the Company cancelled part ofthe $2,600 million term loan facility.
At December 31, 2014 the 2013 Facilities Agreement comprised an $850 million termloan facility which matures on November 11, 2015 andwas fully utilized.
All other terms and conditions remainunchanged.
178 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The $850 million term loan facility, which matures on Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement November 11, 2015, has been used to fi finance the purchase On December 12, 2014, the Company entered into a $2,100 price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma million revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with Incorporated ViroPharma including certain related costs.
anumber of fi financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services PLC trading as Santander Global Banking Interest on any loans made under the facilities will be payable and Markets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International on the last day of each interest period, which may be one Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, Citigroup Global Markets week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation acted as The interest rate applicable to the $850 million term loan mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and DNB Bank facility commenced at LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum until ASA, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Credit Suisse delivery of the compliance certifi cate for the year ending AG, London Branch, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S. A. December 31, 2013 and is subject to change depending upon Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Morgan the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each Stanley Bank International Limited acted as arrangers.
The as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, in respect of the Company is an original borrower under the RCF and has most recently completed fi financial year or fi financial half year.
agreed to act as guarantor for its subsidiaries, which are also original borrowers and for any other of its subsidiaries that The 2013 Facilities Agreement includes customary become additional borrowers thereunder.
At December 31, representations and warranties, covenants and events of 2014 the RCF was undrawn.
On February 23, 2015, Shire default, including requirements that the ratio of Net Debt requested the utilization of $1,300 million under the RCF to toEBITDA of Shire each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities partly fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2019, may be except that following certain acquisitions, including the applied towards fi nancing the general corporate purposes ViroPharma acquisition, the Company may elect to increase ofShire.
The RCF incorporates a $250 million US Dollar the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition andEuro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 The RCF became immediately available for general corporate orJune 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest purposes as outlined above, on satisfaction of certain each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement must not customary conditions precedent including the cancellation be less than 4.0:1. ofShires existing multicurrency term and revolving facilities The 2013 Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain agreement dated November 23, 2010 the 2010 RCF with covenants Shires ability to incur additional fi financial anumber of fi financial institutions, for which Abbey National indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or Treasury Services PLC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory International Limited formerly Banc of America Securities prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control Limited, Barclays Bank PLC formerly Barclays Capital, of Shire.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC formerly proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business Lloyds TSB Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory acted as lead arrangers the facilities under which at such prepayment of the facilities, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facilities include: i non-payment Interest on any loans made under the RCF will be payable of any amounts due under the facilities, ii failure to satisfy onthe last day of each interest period, which may be one any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, of the fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate for defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain the RCF will be: LIBOR or, in relation to any revolving loan insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse inEuro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30% per year until delivery of the changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial fi first compliance certifi cate required to be delivered after the condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, vii if it date of the RCF, subject to change thereafter depending becomes unlawful for the Company or any of its subsidiaries upon i the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as that are parties to the 2013 Facilities Agreement to perform defi ned inthe RCF in respect of the most recently completed their obligations or viii if the Company or any subsidiary of fi financial year or fi financial half year and ii the occurrence and Shire plc which is a party to the 2013 Facilities Agreement continuation of an event of default in respect of the fi financial repudiates the 2013 Facilities Agreement or any other fi finance covenants or the failure to provide a compliance certifi cate.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 179 Directors report continued Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35% per Shire 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 year of the applicable margin on available commitments On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption under the RCF for the availability period applicable thereto notice under the Trust Deed dated May 9, 2007 the Trust and ii a utilization fee equal to a 0.10% per year of the Deed to holders the Holders of the Companys 2.75% aggregate of the amount requested by the borrower in Convertible Bonds due 2014 the Bond.
The aggregate autilization request the Base Currency Amount of outstanding principal amount of Bonds on November 25, alloutstanding loans up to an aggregate Base Currency 2013, the last practicable date prior to the date of the optional Amount equal to $700 million, b 0.15% per year of the redemption notice, was $1,075,070,000.
The last day on amount by which the aggregate Base Currency Amount which bondholders were able to exercise their conversion ofalloutstanding loans exceeds $700 million but is equal rights was December 13, 2013.
Those Bonds which were toorless than $1,400 million and c 0.30% per year of the notvoluntarily converted were redeemed by the Company amount by which the aggregate Base Currency Amount onDecember 27, 2013 at par together with interest accrued ofalloutstanding loans exceeds $1,400 million.
As of December 31, 2013, Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of the $1,099,050,000 had been The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, voluntary converted into 33,806,464 fully paid Ordinary covenants and events of default, including requirements that Shares at a conversion price of $32.51 per Ordinary Share, Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most inthe capital of the Company, with par value of 0.05 each.
recently-ended 12-month Relevant Period each as defi ned The remaining outstanding Bonds in an aggregate principal inthe RCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, amount of $950,000 were redeemed pursuant to the Optional following an acquisition fulfi lling certain criteria, Shire may Redemption Notice issued on November 26, 2013.
Following ona once only basis elect to increase this ratio to 4.0:1 for the redemption of all the outstanding Bonds, the Company the Relevant Period in which the acquisition was completed cancelled the listing of the Bonds on the Offi cial List and for that immediately following and ii ratio of EBITDA maintained by the UK Listing Authority and the admission toNet Interest for the most recently-ended 12-month totrading of the Bonds on the Professional Securities Market Relevant Period each as defi ned in the RCF must not ofthe London Stock Exchange.
Going concern The RCF restricts subject to certain exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the its assets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
is a change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going for schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
concern basis of accounting in preparing the fi financial statements.
Further details regarding the adoption of the Events of default under the facilities include, among others: going concern basis can be found in the accounting policies i non-payment of any amounts due under the Finance in the notes to the fi financial statements.
Documents as defi ned in the RCF, ii failure to satisfy any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of Directors the Finance Documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other The Directors who served during the year and up to the date defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain of signing these fi financial statements are shown below: insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial Dr. Flemming Orsnkov condition of Shire as a whole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Matthew Emmens resigned April 29, 2014 Shire plc or any successor parent company or any of their Graham Hetherington resigned March 1, 2014 respective subsidiaries that are parties to the RCF to perform Dominic Blakemore appointed January 1, 2014 their obligations thereunder or viii if the Company or any William Burns successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which Dr. Steven Gillis isa party to the 2010 RCF repudiates such agreement or Dr. David Ginsburg other Finance Document.
David Kappler Susan Kilsby Anne Minto OBE David Stout 180 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purchase of own shares Auditor During the year ending December 31, 2013 the Company Each of the persons who are a Director at the date made on-market repurchases totaling 6,191,965 Ordinary ofapproval of this report confi rms that: Shares at a cost of $193 million excluding transaction costs.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The program covers purchases of Ordinary Shares for information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and cancellation or to be held as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the Companys the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have AGM on April 30, 2013 when the Company was authorized taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of tomake market purchases of up to 55,741,587 of its own any relevant audit information and to establish that the Ordinary Shares.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Following the announcement of the acquisition of Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in ViroPharma, the Company also announced that it was offi ce as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be ceasing its share buyback program on November 11, proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The contracts were cancelled onthis date.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Directors liability insurance and indemni cation In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and Offi cers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in Tatjana May theircapacity as Directors or Offi cers.
Qualifying third party Company Secretary indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under February 24, 2015 review for the benefi t of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third-parties in the course of their duties.
These remain in force at the date of this report.
Subsequent events In February 2015 Shire completed the acquisition of NPSPharma Inc.
This acquisition adds global rights to aninnovative product portfolio with multiple growth catalysts, including, GATTEX REVESTIVE with growing salesfor the treatment of adults with SBS, a rare GI condition: and NATPARA NATPAR, the only bioengineered hormone replacement therapy for use in the treatment of HPT, arareendocrine disease, which received FDA approval inJanuary 2015.
On February 23, 2015, Shire plc requested the utilization of $1,300 million under the RCF to partly fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
In addition, on February 23, 2015, Shire plc requested the utilization of $850 million under the 2015 Facility Agreement to partly fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 181 Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the fi financial statements in accordance with applicable We confi rm that to the best of our knowledge: law and regulations.
the fi financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors to prepare fi financial United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, statements for each fi financial year.
Under that law the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial Directors have elected to prepare the fi financial statements position and profi t or loss of the Company and the inaccordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards awhole: and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the fi financial statements unless they are satisfi ed the Directors report includes a fair review of the development that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and performance of the business and the position of the company and of the profi t or loss of the company for that company and the undertakings included in the consolidation period.
In preparing these fi financial statements, the Directors taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal are required to: risks and uncertainties that they face: and: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a consistently: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the make judgments and accounting estimates that are Companys performance, business model and strategy.
reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Dr. Flemming Ornskov accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain Director thecompanys transactions and disclose with reasonable February 24, 2015 accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the fi financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They arealsoresponsible for safeguarding the assets of the Companyand hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
182 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc Opinion on the financial statements of Shire plc Going concern In our opinion the fi financial statements: We have reviewed the Directors statement that the Company is a going concern.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairsas at December 31, 2014 and of its loss for the year We confi rm that: then ended: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going have been properly prepared in accordance with United concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and nancialstatements is appropriate: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements we have not identi ed any material uncertainties that may ofthe Companies Jersey Law 1991. cast signi cant doubt on the Companys ability to continue asa going concern.
The fi financial statements comprise the profi t and loss account, balance sheet and the related Notes A to P. However, because not all future events or conditions can Thefi financial reporting framework that has been applied bepredicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the intheir preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Our assessment of risks of material misstatement AcceptedAccounting Practice.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Investment in subsidiaries We have challenged the Directors impairment analysis and have considered the valuation of the Companys subsidiary against other indicators of value There is a risk related to the size of the Companys investments of $13bn such as the overall stock market capitalisation of the Shire Group.
in Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited and Shire Regenerative Medicine Inc which are disclosed in note H. Complex tax judgments We have reviewed and challenged managements conclusion by: As Shire transacts globally within a complex group structure, significant reviewing the Companys submission to the Irish tax authorities and judgment is required in determining the level of tax provisions.
theadvice received by the Company from third party legal counsel andother advisors: We identified a risk that the judgments made by the Directors are inappropriate.
consulting with our own taxation experts to consider the associated factpattern and to challenge the judgments made: and In the current year the most significant judgment related to the tax treatment of the break fee of $1.6 billion received from AbbVie Inc testing the appropriateness of the process and controls adopted by AbbVie.
management in making the key judgments and the controls over the entity prepared documents used in the control.
As disclosed in note 26 the Directors have assessed the tax treatment ofthe $1.6bn AbbVie break fee and concluded that this receipt should not be taxable in Ireland.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction Our application of materiality with the signifi cant issues considered by the Audit Committee We defi ne materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the discussed on page 67. fi financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed changed or infl uenced.
We use materiality both in planning in the context of our audit of the fi financial statements as a the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts our work.
Our opinion on the fi financial statements is not modifi ed with respect to any of the risks described above, and We determined materiality for the Company to be $69 million, we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
based on the net assets of the Company.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report tothe Committee all audit differences in excess of $3 million 2013: $3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identifi ed when assessing the overall presentation ofthe fi financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 183 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities entity and its environment, including internal control, and Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to the fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they give respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express directly by the audit engagement team.
an opinion on the fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK Matters on which we are required to report by exception and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Adequacy of explanations received and Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We accountingrecords also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to toreport to you if, in our opinion: ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems we have not received all the information and explanations include our dedicated professional standards review team werequire for our audit: or and independent partner reviews.
proper accounting records have not been kept, or returns This report is made solely to the Companys members, as adequate for our audit have not been received from branches abody, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies not visited by us: or Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters the financial statements are not in agreement with the we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and or accounting records and returns.
those further matters we expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the annual report is: Scope of the audit of the financial statements materially inconsistent with the information in the audited An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts financial statements: or anddisclosures in the fi financial statements suffi cient to give reasonable assurance that the fi financial statements are free apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting inthe course of performing our audit: or policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and otherwise misleading.
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signifi cant accounting estimates made by In particular, we are required to consider whether we have the Directors: and the overall presentation of the fi financial identifi ed any inconsistencies between our knowledge statements.
In addition, we read all the fi financial and nonacquired during the audit and the Directors statement that fi financial information in the Annual Report to identify material they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and inconsistencies with the audited fi financial statements and to understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we We confi rm that we have not identifi ed any such become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies or misleading statements.
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Bates Senior Statutor, Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom February 24, 2015 184 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial statements Pro t and loss account For the year ended December 31, 2014 2014 2013 Note $M $M Administrative expenses 111.3 34.6 Operating loss C 111.3 34.6 Interest payable and similar charges D 42.9 35.3 Receipt of break fee E 1,635.4 Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 1,481.2 69.9 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities F Profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 1,481.2 69.9 All activities of the Company relate to continuing operations.
There are no recognized gains and losses other than those stated above.
Accordingly, no statement of total recognized gains and losses has been presented.
Balance sheet As at December 31, 2014 2014 2013 Note $M $M Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries H 13,039.0 11,044.9 Current assets Debtors I 1,691.8 53.2 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year J 2,671.9 624.0 Net current liabilities 980.1 570.8 Total assets less current liabilities 12,058.9 10,474.1 Net assets 12,058.9 10,474.1 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital K 58.6 58.5 Share premium account L 7,071.8 7,056.7 Other reserve L 512.4 418.3 Profit and loss account L 4,691.7 3,240.7 Treasury shares M 275.6 300.1 Shareholders funds L 12,058.9 10,474.1 Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Dr. Flemming Ornskov Director February 24, 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 185 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 A.
Presentation of the financial statements Investments Investments held as fi xed assets are stated at historic cost Preparation of financial statements less any provision for impairment.
In the event of a return These separate fi financial statements of the Company are ofcapital by a subsidiary the Companys accounting policy prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally isto apply the return of capital against the cost of investment Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP as at December such that the Companys investment in its subsidiary is 31, 2014 and in accordance with the requirements of the recorded at its recoverable amount.
Any surplus return of Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They have been prepared capital is recorded as an excess return of capital in the profi t under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation and loss account.
of certain fi financial instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and in accordance with Dividends paid and received applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognized as a liability in the Companys fi financial statements Consolidated accounts prepared in conformity with in the period in which the shareholders right to receive accounting principles generally accepted in the United States payment is established.
Dividend income is recognized in of America US GAAP, in which the fi financial results and theprofi t and loss account on the date the Companys right cash fl ow statement of the Company and its subsidiaries to receive payment is established.
areincluded, can be found in the Shire Annual Report.
Expenditure These fi financial statements have been prepared in Expenditure is recognized in respect of goods and services accordance with the Companys accounting policies received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
described below, which have been applied consistently Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future throughout the current and preceding year and have liability in respect of a past event and where the amount beenapproved by the Board.
ofthe obligation can be reliably estimated.
Accounting policies Local currency and currency translation Going Liquidity, cash ow and going concern The fi financial statements have been presented in local The Groups balance sheet includes $2,982.4 million of cash currency.
The local currency is defi ned as the currency and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014. oftheprimary economic environment in which the The Company also has a revolving credit facility of Companyoperates.
$2,100million which matures in 2019, which was undrawn Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate atDecember 31, 2014.
On February 23, 2015, Shire ofexchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary requested the utilization of $1,300 million under the RCF to assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies partly fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires atthebalance sheet dates are reported at the rate of acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
exchange prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items thataremeasured at historical cost in a foreign currency In connection with its acquisition of ViroPharma, on arenot retranslated.
November 11, 2013 the Company also entered into a $2,600million term loan facilities agreement the 2013 Share-based compensation Facilities Agreement.
Amounts drawn under the 2013 The Company operates equity-settled, share-based Facilities Agreement were subsequently reduced to $850 compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services million.
At December 31, 2014 the 2013 Facilities Agreement received in exchange for the grant of the options has been comprised an $850 million term loan facility which matures valued using option-pricing models.
Options and onNovember 11, 2015, which was fully utilized and recorded performance share awards granted without market conditions within short term borrowings.
are valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Following Shires announcement to acquire NPS Pharma, Options and performance share awards granted with market onJanuary 11, 2015 the Company entered into an $850 conditions are valued using a binomial model.
In accordance million term loan facilities agreement the 2015 Facilities with FRS 20 Share-based payment, the resulting cost for Agreement.
On February 23, 2015 the Company requested the Companys employees is recognized as an expense on utilization of $850 million under the 2015 Facilities Agreement astraight-line basis over the vesting period of the awards.
to partially fi finance the purchase price payable in respect The value of the charge is adjusted to refl ect expected and ofShires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain actual levels of vesting.
The cost for awards granted to the relatedcosts.
Companys subsidiaries employees represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Anadditional investment in subsidiaries has been recorded Company and the Group have adequate resources to inrespect of those awards granted to the Companys continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
subsidiaries employees, with a corresponding increase in Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going theCompanys shareholders equity.
The additional capital concern basis of accounting in preparing the report and contribution is based on the fair value at the grant date of fi financial statements.
This accounting treatment applies as theparent has granted the share option rather than being subsidiary granting an option in the parents equity.
186 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information B.
Accounting policies continued Convertible bonds Financial liabilities and equity On issuance, or substitution from other Shire Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classifi ed companies, of convertible bonds the Company bifurcates according to the substance of the contractual arrangements these convertible bonds into their debt and equity entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that components.
The fair value of the debt component is evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company estimated using the market interest rate for an equivalent after deducting all of its liabilities.
If the fair value of an equivalent non-convertible bond is greater than the carrying value Taxation ofconvertible bond, then the limit of the carrying value of Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid convertible bond allocated to the liabilities is that carrying orrecovered using the tax rates and laws that have been value.
The amount allocated to the debt component is enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
classifi ed as a liability and subsequently measured on an Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences amortized cost basis until extinguished on conversion or that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet redemption of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds date where transactions or events that result in an obligation fromthe issuance, or the fair value on substitution from other to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the Shire Group companies, of convertible bonds is allocated future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing tothe equity component, which represents the embedded differences are differences between the Companys taxable conversion option, and is classifi ed in shareholders equity, profi ts and its results as stated in the fi financial statements net of any income tax effects.
The carrying amount of the thatarise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax equity component is not re-measured in subsequent periods.
assessments in periods different from those in which they On conversion the equity component has been reclassifi ed arerecognized in the fi financial statements.
toOther Reserves in line with the requirements of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and Treasury Shares therefore recognized only when, on the basis of all available Where the Company purchases the Companys own share evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there capital, the consideration paid is deducted from the total will be suitable taxable profi ts from which the future reversal shareholders funds and classifi ed as treasury shares until of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Where such shares are subsequently sold Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected or re-issued, any consideration received is included in total toapply in the periods in which the timing differences are shareholders funds.
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that havebeen enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Where the Company enters a fi financial close or other sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
prohibited period and broker contracts cannot be cancelled inthis period, a liability equivalent to the present value of the Related party transactions maximum number of shares available to purchase is debited Under the provisions of FRS 8 Related party disclosures, against total equity.
Accretion of the discount is recorded in asthe consolidated fi financial statements in which the the profi t and loss during the close period.
Shares purchased Companys results are included have been made available in the close period are deducted from the liability and are tothe public, the Company is not required to separately recorded as treasury shares with any remaining liability on disclose details of related party transactions with relation leaving the close period is reversed with a corresponding towholly owned subsidiaries.
Pensions The Company contributes to personal defi ned contribution pension plans of employees.
Contributions are charged to the profi t and loss account as they become payable.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 187 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 continued C. Operating loss The operating loss is stated after charging 2014 2013 $M $M Staff costs Salaries and wages 3.5 5.4 Social security costs 0.2 0.5 Pension contributions 0.1 1.3 Share-based payments to Directors 2.9 4.6 Directors fees 2.2 2.3 8.9 14.1 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.3 The Company employed one employee during the year 2013: two.
The Auditors remuneration in respect of audit and other services is disclosed in Note 31 of the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2014.
The fee payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of theCompany fi financial statements was $13,000 2013: $13,000.
D. Interest payable and similar charges 2014 2013 $M $M Interest payable on convertible bonds 28.3 Interest payable on amounts owed to Group undertakings 15.8 6.9 Bank interest payable and similar charges 27.1 0.1 42.9 35.3 Interest charged on the convertible bonds represented the 2.75% coupon and the amortization of issue costs and discount arising on substitution of the convertible bonds at the time of the Scheme of Arrangement in 2008, see Note J. E. Receipt of break fee On July 18, 2014, the Boards of AbbVie and Shire announced that they had agreed the terms of a recommended combination of Shire with AbbVie, subject to a number of conditions including approval by shareholders and regulators.
On the same date Shire and AbbVie entered into a co-operation agreement in connection with the recommended combination.
On October 16, 2014, the Board of AbbVie confi rmed that it had withdrawn its recommendation of its offer for Shire as a result of the anticipated impact of the US Treasury Notice on the benefi ts that AbbVie expected from its offer.
As AbbVies offer was conditional on the approval of its stockholders, and given their Boards decision to change its recommendation and to advise AbbVies stockholders to vote against the offer, there was no realistic prospect of satisfying this condition.
Accordingly, ShiresBoard agreed with AbbVie to terminate the cooperation agreement on October 20, 2014.
The Company entered into atermination agreement with AbbVie, pursuant to which AbbVie paid the break fee due under the co-operation agreement ofapproximately $1,635.4 million.
The Company has obtained advice that the break fee should not be taxable in Ireland.
TheCompany has therefore concluded that no tax liability should arise and has not recognized a tax charge in the income statement in the current accounting period.
However, this has not been agreed with the tax authorities.
F. Tax on pro t loss on ordinary activities A company which is incorporated in Jersey but managed and controlled and resident for tax purposes outside of Jersey in acountry or territory where the highest rate at which any company may be charged to tax on any part of its income is 20% orhigher will not be regarded as resident in Jersey for tax purposes.
As the company is both managed and controlled and tax resident in Ireland it will not be regarded as resident in Jersey for taxpurposes.
The Company is managed and controlled in Ireland, and is therefore subject to Irish Corporation Tax.
There was $nil corporation tax charged for the year ended December 31, 2014 2013: $nil.
188 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information F. Tax on pro t loss on ordinary activities continued The differences between the total current tax and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of Irish corporation tax to the loss before tax is as follows: 2014 2013 $M $M Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 1,481.2 69.9 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities at standard Irish corporation tax rate of 25% 370.3 17.5 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 30.5 8.9 Group relief surrendered 5.4 1.3 Movements on deferred tax not recognized 2.8 7.3 Receipt not subject to tax 409.0 Current tax charge for the year G. Dividends 2014 2013 Ordinary Shares $M $M Second interim dividend 17.09 cents 10.21 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 50.79 cents per ADS, paid in April 2014 100.0 First interim dividend 3.64 cents 2.24 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 11.49 cents per ADS, paid in October 2014 21.6 Second interim dividend 14.38 cents 9.39 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 43.80 cents per ADS, paid in April 2013 79.7 First interim dividend 3.00 cents 1.95 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 9.00 cents per ADS, paid in October 2013 17.1 121.6 96.8 Of the above amounts, the Company paid dividends amounting to $8.9 million in the year 2013: $5.7 million.
In accordance with IAS arrangements, the Company directed Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to pay dividends totaling $112.7 million 2013: $91.1 million to those shareholders who choose to receive their dividends from a company tax resident in the UK.
The Board has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 19.09 cents 12.51 pence per Ordinary Share equivalent to 57.27cents per ADS for the six months to December 31, 2014.
H. Investments in subsidiaries 2014 2013 $M $M Cost As at January 1 11,044.9 10,972.2 Additions 1,902.1 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 94.1 72.7 Return of capital 2.1 As at December 31 13,039.0 11,044.9 The additions in the year relate to an additional investment of $1,900.0 million on 25 January 2014 in Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited, and $2.1 million on 22 December 2014 in Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC.
Following the investment in Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC, a return of capital of $2.1 million was carried out leaving a $1 investment in the entity.
Subsidiaries Details of the Companys direct subsidiaries as at December 31, 2014 are as follows: Country of incorporation Principal activity Holding Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Holding Company 100% Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC US Holding Company 100% Details of the Companys indirect subsidiaries can be found in Note 32 of the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 189 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 continued I.
Debtors 2014 2013 $M $M Amounts due from Group undertakings 1,679.6 42.2 Other debtors 12.2 11.0 1,691.8 53.2 The amounts due from Group undertakings are primarily US Dollar denominated.
An amount of $1,637.1 million 2013:$12.3million bears interest at fl oating rates of interest.
The remaining balance is non-interest bearing.
Deferred tax The Company had an unrecognized deferred tax asset of $22.4 million 2013: $19.5 million in respect of short term timing differences and losses as at December 31, 2014.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 $M $M Short term borrowings 850.0 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,772.2 620.5 Accrued interest 0.2 0.1 Other creditors 49.5 3.4 2,671.9 624.0 The amounts due to Group undertakings are primarily unsecured, US Dollar denominated, repayable on demand and bear interest at fl oating rates of interest.
Short term borrowings relate to the $850 million term loan facility, which matures on November 11, 2015, has been used tofi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma including certain related costs.
Forfurther details see the Term Loan Agreement section detailed in the Directors report and Note O Commitments.
Shire 2.75% convertible bonds The value of the Bonds as recognized on the balance sheet at the end of the prior year was as follows: 2014 2013 $M $M Nominal value of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 Liability component at January 1 1,104.4 i Interest charged 28.3 Interest paid 30.3 1,101.5 Redeemed bonds converted to Ordinary Shares Redeemed bonds settled by cash 0.9 Liability component at December 31 i Interest charged represents the accrued coupon and amortization of discount.
On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption notice under the Trust Deed dated May 9, 2007 to holders of the Companys 2.75% Convertible Bonds.
Pursuant to the terms of the Trust Deed, the Convertible Bonds which Holders elected to convert as of December 31, 2013 were converted into 33,806,464 Ordinary Shares at a conversion price of $32.51 per Ordinary Share.
190 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information K. Called-up share capital 2014 2013 Ordinary Shares of 5p each Number $M Number $M Authorized At January 1, 2014 and 2013 1,000,000,000 99.1 1,000,000,000 99.1 At December 31, 2014 and 2013 1,000,000,000 99.1 1,000,000,000 99.1 Issued and fully paid At January 1, 2014 and 2013 597,542,344 58.5 562,546,335 55.7 Issued on exercise of options 1,515,158 0.1 1,189,545 Issued on conversion of loan notes 33,806,464 2.8 At December 31, 2014 and 2013 599,057,502 58.6 597,542,344 58.5 2014 2013 Subscriber Ordinary Shares of 1 each Number $M Number $M Authorized At December 31 2 2 Issued and fully paid At December 31 2 2 Income Access Share arrangements Details of the Shire Income Access Share arrangements are disclosed in Note 23 of the Shire Annual Report.
Share options Details of options and awards granted over the Ordinary Shares of the Company which are outstanding as at December 31, 2014 are provided in the Shire Annual Report in Note 23 together with the total cost of share-based payment compensation inrespect of such schemes.
The charge for the period relating to share-based payment plans in respect of Directors of the Company was $2.9 million 2013: $4.6 million, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Details of options and awards granted to Directors of the Company are contained in the Directors remuneration report of ShireAnnual Report on page 97.
Conversion of loan notes As per the information provided in Note J, in the prior year Ordinary Shares were issued on the conversion of the loan notes which were due to mature in 2014.
33,806,464 shares were issued to the holders of the loan which has increased the issued and fully paid share capital of the Company by $2.8 million.
L. Movements in shareholders funds Called-up Share Other Profit share premium capital and loss Treasury capital account reserve account Shares Total $M $M $M $M $M $M As at January 1, 2014 58.5 7,056.7 418.3 3,240.7 300.1 10,474.1 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 94.1 94.1 Credit to equity for share-based payment 2.9 2.9 Dividends paid 8.9 8.9 Options exercised 0.1 15.1 15.2 Shares issues on conversion of convertible bonds Movement of treasury shares for newly issued shares 24.5 24.5 Profit for the year 1,481.2 1,481.2 As at December 31, 2014 58.6 7,071.8 512.4 4,691.4 275.6 12,058.9 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 191 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 continued M. Treasury shares The treasury shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and held by the Company for the purpose of returning funds to shareholders.
The number of Ordinary Shares held by the Company as at December 31, 2014 was 9,019,832 with a purchase value of $275.6 million including transaction costs 2013: 9,823,536 with a purchase value of $300.1 million.
The Company instructed independent third parties to purchase the shares of the Company up to a maximum value of $500million.
These contracts could be cancelled at any time other than when the Company was in a fi financial close or other prohibited period.
As the contracts could not be cancelled in a close or other prohibited period, the Company was obliged torecognize a liability equivalent to the present value of the maximum number of shares still available to purchase which wasdebited against total equity.
Accretion of the discount is recorded in the profi t and loss during the close or other prohibitedperiod.
Shares purchased in the close period or other prohibited were deducted from the liability and recorded astreasury shares with any remaining liability on leaving the close or other prohibited period was reversed with a credit recognized in shareholder equity.
Following the announcement of the acquisition of ViroPharma, the Company also announced that it was ceasing its share buyback program on November 11, 2013 with immediate effect.
The contracts were cancelled on this date.
N. Risk management and financial instruments Financial risk factors The Companys risks are managed on a Group basis.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of fi financial risks: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk including foreign currency exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of fi financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Groups fi financial performance.
The Group uses derivative fi financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups fi financial risk management is carried out by a corporate treasury function conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Companys Board of Directors.
The corporate treasury function identifi es, evaluates and hedges fi financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase currency or interest rate exposure.
Further information in respect of the fi financial risk management of the Group can be obtained from the Shire Annual Report inthe consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2014. Credit risk As at December 31, 2014 the Company had amounts due from Group undertakings and other debtors which in the aggregate totaled $1,679.6 million.
The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk from these amounts is $1,679.6 million.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suffi cient cash and cash equivalents and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Company fi nances its activities through debt securities and committed bank facilities, borrowings and the repayment of loans from Group companies and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals and cash generated from private and public offerings of equity.
The Company anticipates that its funding sources will be suffi cient to meet its anticipated future administrative expenses, debtprincipal, dividend obligations and service costs as they become due over the next 12 months.
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Less than Between Between Between Between 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 1-3 years 3-5 years Total At December 31, 2014 $M $M $M $M $M $M i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,772.2 1,772.2 ii Loan facility 850.0 850.0 2,622.2 2,622.2 At December 31, 2013 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 620.5 620.5 620.5 620.5 i The amounts due to Group undertakings are primarily unsecured, US dollar denominated, repayable on demand and bear interest at oating rates of interest.
ii The loan is unsecured: US dollar denominated and bears interest at a oating rate of interest.
192 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information N. Risk management and financial instruments continued Market risk Foreign currency exchange risk As at December 31, 2014 substantially all of the Companys fi financial assets and fi financial liabilities were denominated in its functional currency, the US dollar.
The Company is not exposed to any signifi cant foreign exchange currency risk.
Price risk As at December 31, 2014 the Company held no investments other than fi xed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings which are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
The Company is not exposed to any price risk.
Interest rate risk As at December 31, 2014 the Company held no cash or cash equivalents or had any trade debtors or creditors which were interest bearing.
The Company had short-term borrowings of $1,772.2 million from another Group company, which are repayable on demand and bear interest at fl oating rates.
Interest on these borrowings in the period amounted to $15.8 million and the Directors do not perceive that servicing this debt poses any signifi cant risk to the Company given its size in relation tothe Companys net assets.
Interest on other loans totaled $13.1 million in the year and the Directors do not perceive that servicing this debt poses any signifi cant risk to the Company.
Market risk sensitivity analysis FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires a market risk sensitivity analysis illustrating the fair value of the Companys fi financial instruments and the impact on the Companys profi t and loss account and shareholders equity of reasonably possible changes in selected market risks.
The Company has no fi financial assets or liabilities that expose it to market risk, other than amounts owed to Group undertakings of $1,772.2 million.
The Directors do not believe that a 1% movement in interest rates will have a material impact on the Companys profi t and loss account or shareholders equity.
Financial instruments The table below sets out the Companys accounting classifi cation of each class of fi financial assets and fi financial liabilities andtheir fair values at December 31, 2014.
Designated AvailableLoans and Amortized Carrying at fair value for-sale receivables cost amount Fair value At December 31, 2014 $M $M $M $M $M $M i Amounts due from Group undertakings 1,679.6 1,679.6 1,679.6 i Other debtors 12.2 12.2 12.2 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,772.2 1,772.2 1,772.2 iii Loan facility 850.0 850.0 850.0 1,691.8 2,622.2 930.4 930.4 At December 31, 2013 i Amounts due from Group undertakings 42.2 42.242.2 i Other debtors 11.0 11.0 11.0 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 620.5 620.5 620.5 ii Convertible bonds 53.2 620.5 567.3 567.3 i The carrying amount of amounts due to and from Group undertakings and other debtors is at approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of theamounts.
ii The fair value of the Companys convertible bonds is based on the quoted market price of the bonds at the balance sheet date as such the fair value quoted aboverepresents the composite fair value for both the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds, whereas the carrying amount represents only theliability component.
iii The carrying amount of amounts for the loan facility is at approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of the amounts.
Capital risk management The capital structure of the Company consists of debt, which includes borrowings disclosed in Note J, issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note L. The Company manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and to ensure the Group has suffi cient capital available to meet future funding requirements.
The Group is in strong fi financial position with net cash of, as determined under US GAAP, of $2,119 million at December 31, 2014 2013 net cash: $2,231 million, which positions the Group to take advantage of any opportunities that might arise to develop the business.
Details of funding requirements are explained in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the reviewof our business in the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2014.
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 193 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 continued O.
Commitments Capital commitments There are no signifi cant capital commitments relating to the Company.
Guarantees The Company has guaranteed external lease commitments, overdrafts, trade facility lines and other banking obligations ofvarious subsidiaries, amounting to $45.7 million 2013: $130.7 million.
Term Loan agreement 2015 Facilities Agreement On January 11, 2015, the Company entered into a $850 million Facility Agreement with, among others, Citi Global Markets Limited acting as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner the 2015 Facility Agreement.
The 2015 Facility Agreement comprises a $850 million term loan facility.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that are or become additional borrowers under the 2015 Facility Agreement.
The 2015 Facilities Agreement, which matures on January 10, 2016, may be used only to fi finance the purchase price payable inrespect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
The maturity date may be extended twice, at Shires option, by six months on each occasion.
On February 23, 2015, the Company requested the utilization of $850 million under the 2015 Facilities Agreement to partially fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
Interest on any loans made under the 2015 Facility Agreement will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to the 2015 Facility Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50% per annum and increases by 0.25% per annum six months after the date of agreement and on each subsequent date falling at three month intervals.
Shire shall also pay a commitment fee on the available but unutilized commitments under $850 million term loan facility for theavailability period applicable to each facility.
With effect from fi first utilization, the commitment fee rate will be 35% of the applicable margin.
Before fi first utilization, the commitment fee rate will increase in stages from 0% to 35% of the applicable margin over a period of three months.
The 2015 Facility Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement must not, atany time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, including the merger with NPS Pharma, Shire may elect to increase the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
The 2015 Facility Agreement restricts subject to certain exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control of Shire.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory prepayment of the facility, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facility include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facility, ii failure to satisfy any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the 2015 Facility Agreement to perform their obligations or viii if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is a party to the 2015 Facility Agreement repudiates the 2015 Facility Agreement or any other fi finance document, among others.
The 2015 Facility Agreement is governed by English law.
2013 Facilities Agreement On November 11, 2013, Shire entered into a $2,600 million facilities agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acting as lead arranger and agent the 2013 Facilities Agreement.
On December 13, 2013 and at various points during the year to December 31, 2014, the Company cancelled part of the $2,600 million term loan facility.
At December 31, 2014 the 2013 Facilities Agreement comprised an $850 million term loan facility which matures on November 11, 2015 and was fully utilized.
All other terms and conditions remain unchanged.
The $850 million term loan facility, which matures on November 11, 2015, has been used to fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma including certain related costs.
Interest on any loans made under the facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
194 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information O.
Commitments continued The interest rate applicable to the $850 million term loan facility commenced at LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum until delivery ofthe compliance certifi cate for the year ending December 31, 2013 and is subject to change depending upon the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, in respect of the most recently completed fi financial year or fi financial half year.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default,  that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of Shire each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, including the ViroPharma acquisition, Shire may elect to increase the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period inwhich the acquisition was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain covenants Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory prepayment of the facilities, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facilities include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facilities, ii failure to satisfy anyfi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in thebusiness, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the 2013 Facilities Agreement to perform their obligations or viii if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is a party to the 2013 Facilities Agreement repudiates the 2013 Facilities Agreement or any other fi finance document, among others.
Revolving credit facility RCF On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2,100 million revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with a number of fi financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services PLC trading as Santander Global Banking and Markets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation acted as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and DNB Bank ASA, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Credit Suisse AG, London Branch, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S. A. Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acted as arrangers.
Shire is an original borrower under the RCF and has agreed to act as guarantor for its subsidiaries, which are also original borrowers and for any other of its subsidiaries that become additional borrowers thereunder.
At December 31, 2014 theRCF was undrawn.
On February 23, 2015, Shire requested the utilization of $1,300 million under the RCF to partly fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2019, may be applied towards fi nancing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
The RCF incorporates a $250 million US Dollar and Euro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
The RCF became immediately available for general corporate purposes as outlined above, on satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent including the cancellation of Shires existing multicurrency term and revolving facilities agreement dated November 23, 2010 the 2010 RCF with a number of fi financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services PLC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited formerly Banc of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank PLC formerly Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC formerly Lloyds TSB Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC acted as lead arrangers the facilities under which at such time were undrawn.
Interest on any loans made under the RCF will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week orone, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate for the RCF will be: LIBOR or, in relation to any revolving loan in Euro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30% per year until delivery of the fi first compliance certifi cate required to be delivered after the date of the RCF, subject to change thereafter depending upon i the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defi ned in the RCF in respect of the most recently completed fi financial year or fi financial half year and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of the fi financial covenants or the failure to provide a compliance certifi cate.
Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35% per year of the applicable margin on available commitments under theRCF for the availability period applicable thereto and ii a utilization fee equal to a 0.10% per year of the aggregate of theamount requested by the borrower in a utilization request the Base Currency Amount of all outstanding loans up to anaggregate Base Currency Amount equal to $700 million, b 0.15% per year of the amount by which the aggregate Base Currency Amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $700 million but is equal to or less than $1,400 million and c 0.30% per year of the amount by which the aggregate Base Currency Amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $1,400 million.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 195 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2014 continued O.
Commitments continued The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most recently-ended 12-month Relevant Period each as defi ned in theRCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, following an acquisition fulfi lling certain criteria, Shire may on a onceonly basis elect to increase this ratio to 4.0:1 for the Relevant Period in which the acquisition was completed and for that immediately following and ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest for the most recently-ended 12-month Relevant Period each asdefi ned in the RCF must not be less than 4.0:1.
The RCF restricts subject to certain exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over itsassets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is achange of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
Events of default under the facilities include, among others: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Finance Documents as defi ned in the RCF, ii failure to satisfy any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the Finance Documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire as awhole, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries that areparties to the RCF to perform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a party to the RCF repudiates such agreement or other Finance Document.
P. Subsequent events In February 2015 Shire completed the acquisition of NPS Pharma.
This acquisition adds global rights to an innovative product portfolio with multiple growth catalysts, including, GATTEX REVESTIVE with growing sales for the treatment of adults with SBS, a rare GI condition: and NATPARA NATPAR, the only bioengineered hormone replacement therapy for use in the treatment of HPT, a rare endocrine disease, which received FDA approval in January 2015.
