Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 1.
Description of operations Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is Shire, or the Company is a leading biopharmaceutical recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which company that focuses on developing and marketing isdependent on future events or future performance.
innovative specialty medicines for patients with rare diseases The Companys principal revenue streams and their and other specialty conditions.
respective accounting treatments are discussed below: The Company has grown both organically and through Product sales acquisition, completing a series of major transactions that Revenue for the sale of products is recognized when have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth deliveryhas occurred and substantially all the risks and and diversifi cation.
The Company will continue to conduct rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
itsown R&D, focused on rare diseases, as well as evaluate Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to companies, products and pipeline opportunities that offer a customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in good strategic fi t and have the potential to deliver value thesame period as the related sales are recorded.
toallof the Companys stakeholders: patients, physicians, Theprovisions made at the time of revenue recognition are policy makers, payers, investors and employees.
based on historical experience and updated for changes infacts and circumstances including the impact of new 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies legislation and loss of a products exclusivity.
These a Basis of preparation provisions are recognized as a reduction to revenues.
The accompanying consolidated fi financial statements include the accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings Royalty income and the Income Access Share trust, after elimination of Royalty income relating to licensed technology is inter-company accounts and transactions.
They have been recognizedwhen the licensee sells the underlying product, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting with the amount of royalty income recorded based on sales principles in the United States of America US GAAP and information received from the relevant licensee.
The Company US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulations estimates sales amounts and related royalty income based on for annual reporting.
the historical product information for any period that the sales information is not available from the relevant licensee.
b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements Licensing revenues The preparation of consolidated fi financial statements, in Other revenue includes revenues derived from product conformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires out-licensing arrangements, which typically consist of an management to make estimates and assumptions that affect initial up-front payment to Shire by the licensee on inception the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of ofthe license and subsequent milestone payments to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Shireby the licensee, contingent on the achievement of consolidated fi financial statements and reported amounts of certain clinical and sales milestones.
Product out-licensing revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
arrangements often require the Company to provide multiple Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to deliverables to the licensee.
the valuation of intangible assets, sales deductions, income taxes including provisions for uncertain tax positions and the Initial license fees received in connection with product realization of deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and out-licensing agreements entered into prior to January 1, legal proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from 2011 were deferred and are recognized over the period in product divestments, contingent consideration payable in which the Company has continuing substantive performance respect of business combinations and asset purchases and obligations, typically the period over which the Company assets held for sale.
If actual results differ from the participates in the development of the out-licensed product, Companys estimates, or to the extent these estimates are even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable adjusted in future periods, the Companys results of against future royalty payments.
operations could either benefi t from, or be adversely affected For product out-licencing arrangements entered into, or by, any such change in estimate.
subject to material modifi cation, after January 1, 2011, c Revenue recognition consideration received is allocated between each of the The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following separable elements in the arrangement using the relative conditions are met: selling price method.
An element is considered separable ifithas value to the customer on a stand-alone basis.
there is persuasive evidence of an agreement Theselling price used for each separable element will be orarrangement: based on vendor specifi c objective evidence VSOE delivery of products has occurred or services ifavailable, third party evidence if VSOE is not available, havebeenrendered: orestimated selling price if neither VSOE nor third party evidence is available.
Revenue is then recognized as each the sellers price to the buyer is xed or ofthe separable elements to which the revenue has been determinable: and allocated is delivered.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued e Collaborative arrangements Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non creditable The Company enters into collaborative arrangements and contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are todevelop and commercialize drug candidates.
recognized as revenues either on achievement of such Thesecollaborative arrangements often require up-front, milestones if the milestones are considered substantive or milestone, royalty or profi t share payments, or a combination over the period the Company has continuing substantive of these, with payments often contingent upon the success performance obligations, if the milestones are not considered ofthe related development and commercialization efforts.
If milestone payments are creditable against Collaboration agreements entered into by the Company future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and mayalso include expense reimbursements or other such released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated payments to the collaborating partner.
The Company reports costs incurred and revenue generated from transactions with third parties as well as payments d Sales deductions between parties to collaborative arrangements either on a i Rebates gross or net basis, depending on the characteristics of the Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state collaborative relationship.
Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with healthmaintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on f Cost of product sales pricedifferentials between a base price and the selling price.
Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing fi nished As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
for those products that are manufactured by the Company, Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue shipping and handling costs, depreciation and amortization in the same period as the related sales are recorded, with the ofintangible assets in respect of favorable manufacturing amount of the rebate based on the Companys best estimate contracts.
Royalties payable to third party intellectual property if any uncertainty exists over the unit rebate amount, and with owners on sale of Companys products are also included in estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
ii Returns g Leased assets The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue The costs of operating leases are charged to operations that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when onastraight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental applicable, specifi c factors affecting certain products at the payments are not made on such a basis.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the consolidated balance sheet as property, plant and equipment iii Coupons and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An leaseor their useful lives.
The capital element of future accrual is established based on the Companys expectation leasepayments is recorded as a liability, while the interest of the level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical element is charged to operations over the period of the trends.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in leaseto produce a level yield on the balance of the capital the same period as the related sales are recorded or the date lease obligation.
the coupon is offered, if later than the date the related sales are recorded.
h Advertising expense iv Discounts The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
The Company offers cash discounts to customers for Advertising costs amounted to $56.4 million, $60.9 million theearly payment of receivables which are recorded as and $85.8 million for the years to December 31, 2014, reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same 2013and 2012 respectively and were included within period as the related sale is recorded.
Selling, general and administrative SG&A expenses.
v Wholesaler chargebacks i Research and development R&D expense The Company has contractual agreements whereby it R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Up-front and milestone supplies certain products to third parties at predetermined payments made to third parties for in-licensed products that prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these have not yet received marketing approval and for which no transactions are reimbursed by the Company if the alternative future use has been identifi ed are also expensed predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by as incurred.
Accruals for wholesaler Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period and amortized over the remaining useful life of the astherelated sales are recorded.
118 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued m Income taxes Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets fi financial statements for positions which are considered more otherthan goodwill, inde nite lived intangible assets likely than not of being sustained, based on the andinvestments technicalmerits of the position on audit by the tax The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefi t recognized assets other than goodwill, indefi nite lived intangible inthe consolidated fi financial statements is based upon assetsand investments for impairment whenever events thelargest amount of tax benefi t that, in managements orchangesin circumstances indicate that the carrying judgment, is greater than 50% likely of being realized based amountsof the relevant assets may not be recoverable.
on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible Whensuch a determination is made, managements estimate outcomes.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties of undiscounted cash fl ows to be generated by the use and relating to unrecognized tax benefi ts within income taxes.
ultimate disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether the carrying The Company recognizes interest and penalties relating to value is recoverable.
If the carrying value is deemed not to be income taxes within income taxes.
Interest income on recoverable, the amount of the impairment recognized in the cashrequired to be deposited with the tax authorities is consolidated fi financial statements is determined by estimating recognized within interest income.
the fair value of the relevant assets and recording an Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying value differences between the carrying amounts of assets and exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually liabilities in the consolidated fi financial statements and the determined based on estimated discounted cash fl ows.
taxbases of assets and liabilities that will result in future k Finance costs of debt taxable or deductible amounts.
The deferred tax assets Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as andliabilities are measured using the enacted tax laws adeferred charge and amortized to the consolidated andrates applicable to the periods in which the differences statements of income over the period to the earliest are expected to affect taxable income.
redemption date of the debt, using the effective interest Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance ratemethod.
On extinguishment of the related debt, any when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than unamortized deferred fi nancing costs are written off and notthat some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements notbe realized.
n Earnings per share l Foreign currency Basic earnings per share is based upon net income Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are attributable to the Company divided by the weighted translated into the functional currency of the relevant averagenumber of Ordinary Shares outstanding during subsidiary in which they arise at the rate of exchange ruling at theperiod.
Diluted earnings per share is based upon net the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies are income attributable to the Company adjusted for the impact translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of of interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction basis when the effect is dilutive and prior to the actual gains and losses, other than those related to current and conversion or redemption of such debt divided by the deferred tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving weighted average number of Ordinary Share equivalents atincome from operations before income taxes and equity in outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive earnings of equity method investees.
Transaction gains and effectof all potential Ordinary Shares equivalents that were losses arising on foreign currency denominated current and outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income are excluded when the effect would be to increase diluted taxes in the consolidated statements of income.
earnings per share or reduce the diluted loss per share.
The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional o Share-based compensation currency is not the US Dollar, are translated into the US Dollar Share-based compensation represents the cost of shareat the average rates of exchange during the period, with the based awards granted to employees.
The Company subsidiaries balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at measures share-based compensation cost for awards the balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange classifi ed as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated rate movements is included in a separate component of fair value of the award.
Predominantly all of the Companys Othercomprehensive income.
awards have service and or performance conditions and Foreign currency exchange transaction losses included thefair values of these awards are estimated using a inconsolidated statements of income in the years to Black-Scholes valuation model.
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 amounted to $15.6million, $8.7million and $3.5 million, respectively.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the and, for certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based approval.
Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net approval if the Company considers that it is highly probable ofestimated forfeitures over the employees requisite service that the US Food and Drug Administration FDA or another period.
For those share-based compensation awards with a regulatory body will grant commercial and manufacturing graded vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the cost approval for the relevant product, and it is highly probable of the relevant share-based payment award as an expense that the value of capitalized inventories will be recovered ona straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the through commercial sale.
requisite service period for the entire award that is, over the Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or requisite service period for the last separately vesting portion unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the of the award.
The share-based compensation expense is cost of inventory and estimated market value based upon recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, SG&A and assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Reorganization costs in the consolidated statements of Ifactual market conditions are less favorable than those income based on the employees respective functions.
anticipated, inventory adjustments may be required.
The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that s Assets held-for-sale result in deductions on the Companys income tax returns, An asset or asset disposal group is classifi ed as held-for-sale based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and when, amongst other things, the Company has committed the Companys statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which toa plan of disposition, the asset or asset disposal group is itwill receive a deduction.
Differences between the deferred available for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to tax assets recognized for fi financial reporting purposes and change signifi cantly.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the theactual tax deduction reported on the Companys lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
incometax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital ifthe tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset or in the The Company does not record depreciation or amortization consolidated statements of income if the deferred tax asset on assets classifi ed as held-for-sale.
exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
t Investments The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and The Companys share-based compensation plans are biotechnology companies.
described more fully in Note 30.
Investments are accounted for using the equity method of p Cash and cash equivalents accounting if the investment gives the Company the ability Cash and cash equivalents are defi ned as short-term highly toexercise signifi cant infl uence, but not control over, the liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days orless.
Signifi cant infl uence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of q Financial instruments derivatives the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors The Company uses derivative fi financial instruments to such as representation on the investees Board of Directors manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk principally and the nature of commercial arrangements, are considered associated with intercompany fi nancing.
These instruments in determining whether the equity method of accounting is consist of swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under the equity method of accounting, the TheCompany does not apply hedge accounting for these Company records its investments in equity-method investees instruments.
The fair values of these instruments are included in the consolidated balance sheet under Investments and its on the balance sheet in current assets liabilities, with changes share of the investees earnings or losses together with in the fair value recognized in the consolidated statements other-than-temporary impairments in value under equity in ofincome.
The cash fl ows relating to these instruments are earnings of equity method investees in the consolidated presented within net cash provided by operating activities statements of income.
inthe consolidated statement of cash fl ows, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specifi c All other equity investments, which consist of investments investing or fi nancing activities.
forwhich the Company does not have the ability to exercise signifi cant infl uence, are accounted for under the cost r Inventories method or at fair value.
Investments in private companies are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost carried at cost, less provisions for other-than-temporary incurred in bringing each product to its present location and impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a fi first-in, determinable fair values, the Company classifi es its equity fi first-out basis, including transportation costs.
investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in value of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-than-temporary, are included in other income, net.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specifi c identifi cation method.
Interest on securities classifi ed as available-for-sale are included as interest income.
120 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the reporting units net assets including u Property, plant and equipment allocated goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for Ifthereporting units carrying amount is greater than its impairment losses, net of accumulated depreciation.
The cost fairvalue, a second step is performed whereby the portion of signifi cant assets includes capitalized interest incurred ofthereporting units fair value relating to goodwill is during the construction period.
Depreciation is recorded on a compared to the carrying value of the reporting units straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost less goodwill.
The Company recognizes a goodwill impairment estimated residual value of each asset over its estimated charge for the amount by which the carrying value of goodwill useful life as follows: exceeds its estimated fair value.
In the year to December 31, Buildings 15 to 50 years 2013 the Company has recorded an impairment charge of $198.9 million related to the goodwill allocated to the Offi ce furniture, fi ttings and Companys former Regenerative Medicine RM reporting equipment 3 to 10 years unit.
Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 3 to 15 years ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course property rights for products with a defi ned revenue stream, of construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets acquired product technology and IPR&D.
Intellectual property are available and ready for their intended use.
rights for currently marketed products and acquired product Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the technology are recorded at fair value and amortized over the consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs estimated useful life of the related product, which ranges from ofmajor renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the 4 to 23 years weighted average 18.6 years.
IPR&D acquired timeproperty, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise through a business combination is capitalized as an indefi nite disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation the associated R&D efforts.
IPR&D is reviewed for impairment accounts.
The profi t or loss on such disposition is refl ected using a one-step approach which compares the fair value of inoperating income.
the IPR&D asset with its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds v Goodwill and other intangible assets the fair value of the IPR&D asset.
Once the R&D efforts i Goodwill arecompleted the useful life of the relevant assets will be In business combinations completed subsequent to January determined, and the IPR&D asset amortized over this useful 1, 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the economic life.
consideration given and the fair value of any non-controlling The following factors, where applicable, are considered in interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifi able estimating the useful lives of Other intangible assets: assets and liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the expected use of the asset: excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the fairvalue of the identifi able assets and liabilities acquired.
regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is reviewed for actions by government agencies: impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not products and other economic factors, including the stability berecoverable.
For the purpose of assessing the carrying of the market, known technological advances, development value of goodwill for impairment, goodwill is allocated at of competing drugs that are more effective clinically or theCompanys reporting unit level.
Events or changes in economically: circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to: signifi cant underperformance actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies ofa reporting unit relative to expected historical or projected orothers that may eliminate current competitive future operating results: signifi cant changes in the manner of advantages:and the Companys use of acquired assets or the strategy for the historical experience of renewing or extending similar overall business: and signifi cant negative industry trends.
When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors are considered in combination when determining the appropriate useful life for the relevant asset.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued To be adopted in future periods Reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of w Non-monetary transactions disposals of components of an entity The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions In April 2014 the FASB issued guidance on the reporting that involve either the granting of a license over the ofdiscontinued operations and disclosures of disposals Companys patents or the disposal of an asset or group of ofcomponents of an entity.
The amendments in this assets in exchange for a non-monetary asset, usually equity.
updaterevise the defi nition of discontinued operations by The Company accounts for these transactions at fair value limiting discontinued operations reporting to disposals of ifthe Company is able to determine the fair value within components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that reasonable limits.
To the extent the Company concludes that have or will have a major effect on an entitys operations and it is unable to determine the fair value of a transaction that fi financial results.
The guidance requires expanded disclosures transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the for discontinued operations which provide users of fi financial assets exchanged.
Management is required to exercise its statements with more information about the assets, liabilities, judgment in determining whether or not the fair value of the revenues, and expenses of discontinued operations.
The asset received or given up can be determined.
guidance also requires an entity to disclose the pre-tax profi t x New accounting pronouncements or loss of an individually signifi cant component of an entity Adopted during the periods that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting.
Push down accounting in a business combination The guidance will be effective for disposals or classifi cations In November 2014 the Financial Accounting Standards as held-for-sale of components of an entity that occur within Board FASB issued guidance on whether and at what annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014. threshold an acquired entity that is a business can apply Early adoption is permitted, but only for disposals or pushdown accounting in its separate fi financial statements.
classifi cations as held-for-sale that have not been reported The amendments in this update provide an acquired entity infi financial statements previously issued or available for with an option to apply pushdown accounting in its separate issuance.
The Company does not expect the adoption of fi financial statements upon occurrence of an event in which thisguidance to have a material effect on its consolidated anacquirer obtains control of the acquired entity.
An acquired fi financial position, results of operations and cash fl ows.
entity should determine whether to elect to apply pushdown accounting for each individual change-in-control event in Revenue from Contracts with Customers which an acquirer obtains control of the acquired entity.
In May 2014 the FASB and the International Accounting Ifpushdown accounting is not applied in the reporting Standards Board together as the Accounting Standards periodinwhich the change-in-control event occurs, an Boards issued a new accounting standard that is intended acquired entity will have the option to elect to apply to clarify and converge the fi financial reporting requirements pushdown accounting in a subsequent reporting period to forrevenue from contracts with customers.
The core principle theacquired entitys most recent change-in-control event.
ofthe standard is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict Anelection to apply pushdown accounting in a reporting the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in period after the reportingperiod in which the change-inanamount that refl ects the consideration to which the entity control event occurred should be considered a change in expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or accounting principle in accordance with Topic 250, services.
To achieve that core principle the Accounting Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.
If pushdown Standard Boards developed a fi five-step model as presented accounting is applied to an individual change-in-control below and related application guidance, which will replace event, that election is irrevocable.
If an acquired entity most existing revenue recognition guidance in US GAAP.
electsthe option to apply pushdown accounting in its Five-step model: separate fi financial statements, it should disclose information Step 1: Identify the contract s with a customer.
in the current reporting period that enables users of fi financial statements to evaluate the effect ofpushdown accounting.
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
The amendments in this update became effective on Step 3: Determine the transaction price.
After the effective date, an acquired Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance entity can make an election to apply the guidance to future obligations in the contract.
change-in-control events or to its most recent change-incontrol event.
However, if the fi financial statements for the Step 5: Recognize revenue when or as the entity satisfi es period in which the most recent change-in-control event aperformance obligation.
occurred already have been issued or made available to be The Accounting Standards Boards also issued new qualitative issued, the application of this guidance would be a change and quantitative disclosure requirements as part of the new inaccounting principle.
The guidance has been adopted on accounting standard which aims to enable fi financial statement November 18, 2014.
The adoption of the guidance did not users to understand the nature, amount, timing, and impact the Companys consolidated fi financial position, uncertainty of revenue and cash fl ows arising from contracts resultsof operations or cash fl ows.
The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016.
Early adoption is not permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact ofadopting this guidance.
122 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts Elimination of Certain Financial Reporting Requirements, of Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2013 prepared Including an Amendment to Variable Interest Entities under UK GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law have Guidance in Topic 810, Consolidation been delivered to the Registrar of Companies for Jersey.
In June 2014 the FASB issued guidance on the reporting Theconsolidated accounts of the Company for the year requirements for development stage entities.
The ended December 31, 2013 prepared in accordance with amendments in this update simplify the existing guidance USGAAP, in fulfi llment of the Companys United Kingdom byremoving all incremental fi financial reporting requirements Listing Authority UKLA annual reporting requirements were for development stage entities.
The amendments also fi led with the UKLA.
The auditors reports on these accounts eliminate an exception provided with respect to development were unqualifi ed.
stage entities in Topic 810, Consolidation, for determining Statutory accounts of Shire, consisting of the solus accounts whether an entity is a variable interest entity on the basis of of Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2014 prepared the amount of equity that is at risk.
The elimination of the under UK GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law will be exception may change the consolidation analysis, delivered to the Registrar of Companies in Jersey in 2015. consolidation decision, and disclosure requirements for The Company further expects to fi le the consolidated areporting entity that has an interest in an entity in the accounts of the Company for the year to December 31, 2014, development stage.
The guidance to eliminate the exception prepared in accordance with US GAAP, in fulfi llment of the to the suffi  criterion for development Companys UKLA annual reporting requirements with the stage entities should be applied retrospectively for annual UKLA in 2015. reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods therein.
Early application of both of these 3.
Critical accounting estimates amendments is permitted for any annual reporting period or The preparation of consolidated fi financial statements, in interim period for which the entitys fi financial statements have conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in not yet been issued.
The Company is currently evaluating the the United States US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires impact of adopting this guidance.
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Continue as a Going Concern consolidated fi financial statements and reported amounts of In August 2014 the FASB issued guidance about revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a the valuation of intangible assets, sales deductions, income going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures.
taxes including provisions for uncertain tax positions and the Anentitys management should evaluate whether there are realization of deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise legal proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a divestments of products or businesses and contingent going concern within one year after the date that the fi financial consideration payable in respect of business combinations statements are issued or within one year after the date that and asset purchases.
If actual results differ from the the fi financial statements are available to be issued when Companys estimates, or to the extent these estimates are applicable.
Managements evaluation should be based on adjusted in future periods, the Companys results of relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably operations could either benefi t from, or be adversely affected knowable at the date that the fi financial statements are issued by, any such change in estimate.
or available to be issued.
Substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern exists when relevant i Valuation of intangible assets conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, indicate In accordance with US GAAP the Company classifi es that it is probable that the entity will be unable to meet its intangible assets into three categories: 1 fi nite lived obligations as they become due within one year after the date intangible assets, which are amortized over their estimated that the fi financial statements are issued or available to be useful lives: 2 intangible assets with indefi nite lives, which issued.
The term probable is used consistently with its use are not subject to amortization: and 3 goodwill.
The amendments in this update are effective for the annual period ending after December 15, At December 31, 2014 the carrying value of the Companys 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter.
fi nite lived intangible assets was $3,384 million 2013: $1,361 Early application is permitted.
The Company does not expect million: 2012: $2,157 million, the carrying value of the the adoption of this guidance to have a material effect on its Companys indefi nite lived intangible assets was $1,550 consolidated fi financial position, results of operations and million 2013: $952 million: 2012: $231 million, and the cashfl ows.
carrying value of the Companys goodwill was $2,475 million 2013: $625 million: 2012: $645 million.
The Companys y Statutory accounts indefi nite lived intangible assets relate solely to IPR&D assets The consolidated fi financial statements as at December 31, acquired through business combinations.
2014 and 2013, and for each of the three years in the period to December 31, 2014 do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the UK Companies Act 2006 or Article 104 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued fl ows are then adjusted to present value by applying a market i Initial valuation of intangible assets acquired through participant discount rate that refl ects the risk factors that a business combinations market participant would associate with the cash fl ows to the The Company accounts for business combinations using the extent the underlying cash fl ows have not similarly been risk acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the adjusted.
Forecasting these future cash fl ows requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the various assumptions to be made, including whether and to date of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Any excess what extent future net cash fl ows are specifi c to Shire or of the fair value of consideration given and the fair value could also be achieved by a market participant.
These ofany noncontrolling interest over the fair values of the valuations are based on information that is known or identifi able assets and liabilities acquired is recorded as reasonably knowable at the time of the acquisition of the goodwill.
The determination of the estimated fair values identifi able intangible assets, and the expectations and ofacquired intangible assets, including determining the assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the appropriate unit of account for each intangible asset, as well Companys management and ii are based on information, as the useful economic life ascribed to fi nite lived intangible expectations and assumptions that would be available to and assets, requires the use of signifi cant judgment.
The use of made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, different estimates and assumptions to those used by the however, that the underlying assumptions or events Company could result in a materially different valuation of associated with such valuations will occur as projected.
acquired intangible assets, which could have a material effect Forthese reasons, among others, actual cash fl ows may on the Companys results of operations.
differ from these forecasts and, dependent on the outcome offuture events or circumstances, impairment losses as US GAAP provides acquirers with a reasonable time to obtain outlined below may result.
The use of different estimates the information necessary to identify and measure the assets andassumptions to those used by the Company could result acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination in a materially different valuation of fi nite lived intangible ameasurement period.
The measurement period cannot assets.
However, as the valuation process for intangible exceed more than one year from the acquisition date.
assets involves a number of inter-related assumptions, the Inaccordance with US GAAP, if the initial accounting for Company does not consider it meaningful to quantify the abusiness combination is incomplete by the end of the sensitivity of the valuation of intangible assets to changes reporting period in which the acquisition occurred, the inany individual assumption.
Company reports in its fi financial statements preliminary amounts for those items for which the accounting is Initial valuation of inde nite lived intangible assets IPR&D incomplete, which may include intangible assets acquired.
IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete During the measurement period, the Company considers all technologies and development projects that the Company pertinent factors to determine whether new information has acquired through business combinations which obtained after the acquisition date regarding the values of completed after January 1, 2009 which, at the time the intangible assets should result in an adjustment to the business combination closed, had not reached technological provisional amounts recognized or whether that new feasibility or which had no alternative future use.
At December information results from events that occurred after the 31, 2014 the carrying value of the Companys indefi nite lived acquisition date and should result in an adjustment through intangible assets IPR&D was $1,550 million.
In the year to current period earnings.
Depending upon the nature of this December 31, 2014 the Company acquired IPR&D assets new information, signifi cant judgment may be required in totaling $793 million, primarily relating to the IPR&D assets determining whether the adjustment should be refl ected as acquired with ViroPharma, Lumena and Fibrotech.
anadjustment to provisional amounts or adjusted through The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the current period earnings.
Application of a different judgment income approach on a project-by-project basis using the could materially impact the Companys results of operations.
The fair value of the Initial valuation of nite lived intangible assets acquired IPR&D assets has been based on the present value At December 31, 2014 the carrying value of the Companys of probability adjusted incremental cash fl ows which a market fi nite lived intangible assets was $3,384 million.
In the year participant would expect the IPR&D projects to generate on a toDecember 31, 2014 the Company acquired fi nite lived highest and best use basis, after the deduction of intangible assets totaling $2,320 million, primarily relating to contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these the intangible assets for currently marketed products projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the acquired with ViroPharma.
probability of success of each development project, and the application of an appropriate market participant discount rate The fair values of all fi nite lived identifi able intangible assets, commensurate with the projects stage of completion, the for commercialized products and developed product nature of the product, the scientifi c data associated with the technologies, acquired through business combinations have technology, the current patent situation and market been determined using an income approach on a .
project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The multi-period excess earnings method starts with a The cash fl ows that will ultimately be generated by IPR&D forecast of all expected future net cash fl ows which a market projects are subject to major risks and uncertainties including participant could have either generated or saved as a result of whether the IPR&D projects will be completed in a timely ownership of the intellectual property, customer relationships, manner, if at all, whether the necessary regulatory approvals product technologies and other intangible assets.
These cash will be obtained and how commercially successful the project 124 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued and ultimate disposition of the fi nite lived intangible asset will be subsequent to commercial launch.
The Company is based on entity specifi c assumptions are less than its required to use estimates and assumptions in relation to carrying value, the intangible asset is considered not to be these risks and uncertainties when valuing IPR&D projects.
The impairment loss is determined under step The use of different estimates and assumptions to those used two as the amount by which the carrying value of the by the Company could result in a materially different valuation intangible asset exceeds its fair value based on market of the related IPR&D.
However, as the valuation process for participant assumptions, which may differ from entity specifi c IPR&D involves a number of inter-relating assumptions, the assumptions.
Company does not consider it meaningful to quantify the Events or circumstances that could suggest that the sensitivity of the valuation of IPR&D to changes in any Companys fi nite lived intangible assets may not be individual assumption.
recoverable, and which would lead to an evaluation of the The initial valuation of indefi nite lived IPR&D is based on recoverability of the relevant asset, include but are not limited information that existed at the time of the acquisition of the to, the following: relevant development project, and utilizes expectations and i changes to a products commercialization strategy: assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Companys management, and ii are based on information, ii the loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or expectations and assumptions that would be available to and challenge or circumvention by competitors of the made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be Companys regulatory exclusivity patents: given that the underlying assumptions or estimates iii the development and marketing of competitive products, associated with the valuation of IPR&D will occur as including generic entrants into the marketplace: projected.
If IPR&D projects fail during development, are abandoned or subject to signifi cant delay, or do not receive iv changes to the product labels, or other regulatory the relevant regulatory approvals, the Company may not intervention: realize the future cash fl ows that it has estimated nor recover v sustained government pressure on prices and, the value of the R&D investment made subsequent to specifi cally, competitive pricing: acquisition of the project.
If such circumstances occur, the Companys future operating results could be materially vi the occurrence of signifi cant adverse events in respect adversely impacted.
tothe Companys products: ii Subsequent measurement of intangible assets vii a signifi cant deterioration in a products operating Finite lived intangible assets estimation of amortization performance compared to expectations: and charges and impairment losses viii an expectation that the intangible asset will be divested Managements estimate of the useful life of its fi nite lived before the end of its previously estimated useful life.
intangible assets considers, amongst other things, the The occurrence of any such events or circumstances may following factors: result in the Company reducing the estimated future net cash i the expected use of the fi nite lived intangible asset by the fl ows to be generated by, and the fair value of, its fi nite lived Company: intangible assets and therefore give rise to an impairment loss.
ii any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit or extend the useful life: The Company has not recorded any impairment losses in respect of fi nite lived intangible assets in 2014.
In 2013, as a iii the effects of demand and competition, including the result of the divestment of DERMAGRAFT to Organogenesis, launch of generic products: and the Company reclassifi ed the DERMAGRAFT fi nite lived iv other general economic and or industry specifi c factors intangible asset and other assets subject to disposal as such as the stability of the industry, known technological Assets held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or $636.9 million, measured at fair value less cost to sell, in the changing regulatory environment, and expected changes year to December 31, 2013.
In the year to December 31, 2012 in distribution channels.
the Company recognized impairment losses of $126.7 million to write-down its RESOLOR fi nite lived intangible assets to The Company reviews the useful life of its intangible assets their fair value.
subject to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of the useful life if warranted by events or Dependent on future events or circumstances, the Companys circumstances.
Any future changes to the useful life of the operating results could be materially and adversely affected Companys fi nite lived intangible assets could result in higher by future impairment losses relating to its fi nite lived or lower amortization charges in future periods, which could intangible assets.
materially affect the Companys results from operations.
Inde nite lived intangible assets IPR&D estimation of The Company reviews its fi nite lived intangible assets for impairment losses impairment using a two-step approach, whenever events The Company reviews its indefi nite lived intangible assets orcircumstances suggest that the carrying value of its fi nite which currently only relate to IPR&D assets for impairment lived intangible assets may not be recoverable.
Under step annually or more frequently if events or changes in one, if the undiscounted cash fl ows resulting from the use circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued Under this two step quantitative assessment, the Company Indefi nite lived assets are reviewed for impairment by fi rstly compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its comparing the fair value of the indefi nite lived asset based on carrying value.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit is market participant assumptions, which may differ from entity greater than its fair value, then goodwill is considered specifi c assumptions with its carrying amount.
An impaired and a further test is performed to determine the impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount by which the carrying value of a reporting units value exceeds the estimated fair value of the relevant goodwill exceeds its fair value, with an impairment loss indefi nite lived intangible asset.
recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The quantitative determination of fair value of a reporting unit Events or circumstances that could suggest that the requires the use of signifi cant judgment and assumptions, Companys IPR&D assets may not be recoverable, and which include, amongst other things, the estimation of future whichwould lead to an evaluation of the relevant asset for forecast cash fl ows and an appropriate discount rate used to impairment, include those factors considered for fi nite lived determine the fair value.
intangible assets outlined above as well as any adverse changes to the technological or commercial viability of In 2013 the Company identifi ed circumstances which theIPR&D projects, which could include abandonment, indicated that the carrying value of goodwill in the RM orsignifi cant delays in progression, of the IPR&D project reporting unit may not have been recoverable, which triggered oradecline in its estimated commercial potential.
The an impairment test in advance of the annual testing date.
The occurrence of any such events or circumstances could results of the Companys March 31, 2013 impairment test resultin the Company reducing the estimated future net showed that the carrying amount of the RM reporting unit cashfl ows to be generated by, and the fair value of, its exceeded its fair value and the implied value of the goodwill indefi nite lived intangible assets and therefore give rise was $nil.
As a result the Company recorded an impairment toanimpairment loss.
charge of $198.9 million related to the goodwill allocated to the RM reporting unit of which $191.8 million was After the identifi cation of any such events or circumstances, subsequently reclassifi ed to be presented within discontinued and the resultant impairment reviews, the Company operations See Note 13, Goodwill to the consolidated recognized impairment losses of $190.3 million in the year to fi financial statements set forth in this Annual Report.
December 31, 2014, primarily to write-down its SHP602 and SHP613 IPR&D assets to their fair value See Note 14, Other The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment intangible assets, net to the consolidated fi financial review as of October 1, 2014, which indicated, based on statements set forth in this Annual Report.
In 2013 and 2012 qualitative factors that the Companys goodwill was the Company recorded impairment losses of $19.9 million recoverable and was not deemed to be at risk of impairment.
and $71.2 million respectively to write-down RESOLOR ii Sales Deductions IPR&D assets to their fair values.
Dependent on future events Sales deductions consist primarily of statutory rebates to or circumstances, the Companys operating results could be State Medicaid and other government agencies, Medicare materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses Part D rebates, contractual rebates with Managed Care relating to its indefi nite lived intangible assets.
Organizations MCOs, product returns, sales discounts Goodwill estimation of impairment losses including trade discounts, distribution service fees, The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least wholesaler chargebacks, and allowances for coupon and annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances patient assistance programs.
These deductions are recorded indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related berecoverable.
Estimates of future obligations are derived from historical experience adjusted to refl ect The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by fi rstly knownchanges in the factors that impact such reserves.
assessing qualitative factors, including comparing the market Onthe balance sheet the Company records wholesaler capitalization of the Company to the carrying value of its chargebacks and trade discounts as a reserve against assets, to determine whether events or circumstances exists accounts receivable, whereas all other sales deductions which indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value arerecorded within current liabilities.
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the The Company has the following signifi cant categories of sales Company determines that it is more likely than not that the deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then which the Company considers to be critical accounting the goodwill is considered recoverable and no further testing estimates, and require the Company to use information from is performed.
If, after assessing these qualitative factors, it is external sources: deemed more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting Medicaid and Managed Care Rebates unit is less than its carrying value, a two step quantitative In the US, statutory and any supplemental rebates to State assessment is performed.
This qualitative determination Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to MCOs under requires the use of judgment in concluding, based on the managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated totality of events or circumstances, whether goodwill is discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally considered recoverable or whether a further quantitative increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of assessment is required to be performed.
the product if prices increase faster than general infl ation.
126 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued c the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: It can take up to six months for information to reach the d product recalls and discontinuances: Company on actual usage of the Companys products in managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total e the shelf life of products: rebates to be reimbursed.
Similarly, it can take some months f the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and before reimbursement claims are actually made by the Medicaid and Managed Care agencies.
As a result the g the loss of patent protection, exclusivity or new Company estimates the reserves required for amounts competition.
payable under these programs relating to sold products.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution The amount of these reserves is based on historical channel are based on product-by-product inventory data experience of rebates, the timing of payments, the level of provided by wholesalers and results of independently reimbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling commissioned third party retail inventory surveys.
prices and statutory or negotiated prices, changes in Returns reserves for new products and for those products prescription demand patterns, projected product returns and with generic or authorized generic competition generally the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Adjustments require a higher level of estimation than those for established are made for known changes in these factors, including products without generic or authorized generic competition.
changes in product lifecycle, on a quarterly basis.
For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution new product which can include guaranteed sales, the channel are derived from product-by-product inventory data Companys policy is to defer recognition of the sales revenue provided by wholesalers and results of independently until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance of the new commissioned retail inventory surveys.
product primarily through third-party prescription data.
For Revisions or clarifi cation of guidelines from the CMS related shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not to State Medicaid and other government program guaranteed sales, the Companys initial estimates of sales reimbursement practices with retroactive application can return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates returns experience of similar products shortly after launch.
Once suffi cient historical data on actual returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and managed any other relevant factors as noted above.
care rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and The Company estimates returns reserves for products with Medicaid agency or MCO.
Accordingly, it would not be generic or authorized generic competition based on meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any historical sales, the estimated level of inventory in the individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not distribution channel, product utilization and rebate data, believe that the effect of these uncertainties, taken as a which are modifi ed through the use of management judgment whole, signifi cantly impacts the Companys fi financial condition to take into account many factors, including, but not limited or results of operations.
to, current market dynamics, changes in contract terms, changes in sales trends and product pricing.
Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $882 million, $807 The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, million and $641 million, or 15%, 17% and 15%, respectively in each case, a number of interrelating assumptions, which of net product sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not vary for each combination of product and customer.
varied signifi cantly from the reserves provided.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or Product Returns uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of The Company typically accepts customer product returns in uncertainties, as a whole, signifi cantly impacts the Companys the following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b fi financial condition or results of operations.
product damaged while in Shires possession: c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or At December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, provisions for product d following product recalls or product withdrawals.
Generally, returns were $132 million, $99 million, and $91 million or 2%, returns for expired product are accepted three months before 2% and 2% respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, and up to one year after expiration date of the relevant actual returns have not varied signifi cantly from the reserves product and the returned product is destroyed.
the product and the Companys return policy with respect to iii Income Taxes that product, the Company may either refund the sales price In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management paid by the customer by issuance of a credit, or exchange the isrequired to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefi t returned product with replacement inventory.
The Company should be recognized in the consolidated fi financial typically does not provide cash refunds.
statements, based on whether it is more likely than not that Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will the technical merits of the position will be sustained based result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: onaudit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefi t recognized in the consolidated fi financial statements a past product returns activity: isbased upon the largest amount of tax benefi t that, b the duration of time taken for products to be returned: ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued tax liabilities of $1,428 million 2013: $644 million: 2012: inmanagements judgment, is greater than 50% likely to be $740million.
realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of The realization of these assets is not assured and is thepossible outcomes.
In accounting for income tax dependent on various factors.
Management is required to uncertainties, management is required to make judgments in exercise judgment in determining whether it is more likely the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the than not that it would realize these deferred tax assets.
In facts, circumstances and information in respect of the tax assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that weighs all available positive and negative evidence including the Company may be required to pay in ultimate settlement cumulative losses in recent years, expectations of future with the tax authority.
taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential under Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning authorities.
As Shire operates globally, the nature of the strategies.
A valuation allowance is established where there is uncertain tax positions is often very complex and subject to an expectation that on the balance of probabilities change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
Shire management considers it is more likely than not that the develops its cumulative probability assessment to measure relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized.
If actual uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, experience events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent and judgment, together with assistance from professional that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes advisors.
Original estimates are refi ned as additional to the valuation allowance could signifi cantly impact the information becomes known.
For example, in the year to Companys fi financial condition and results of operations.
December 31, 2014 the Company released certain provisions iv Litigation and legal proceedings for uncertain tax positions totaling $221.1 million, primarily The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
The related to the settlement of certain tax positions with the Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings Canadian revenue authorities and the conclusion of prior year aredisclosed in Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, audits in other territories.
These releases were partially offset Legal and other proceedings to the consolidated fi financial by the recognition of additional provisions for uncertain tax statements set forth in this Annual Report.
The Company positions of $84.5 million in relation to ongoing compliance recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses management for current and prior years.
when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially records a loss contingency provision based on its best higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could estimate of the probable loss.
If no particular amount within signifi cantly impact the Companys results of operations or that range is a better estimate than any other amount, the fi financial condition.
However, the Company does not believe it minimum amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses may be is possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of any developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, such change in assumptions, estimates or judgments and the and are therefore refi ned each accounting period as additional resultant change, if any, in the Companys provision for information becomes known.
In instances where the uncertain tax positions, as any such change is dependent on Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, factors such as future changes in tax law or administrative no loss contingency provision is recorded at that time.
As practice, the amount and nature of additional taxes which information becomes known a loss contingency provision is may be asserted by the taxation authorities, and the recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
These willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a estimates are reviewed quarterly and changed when settlement for any such position.
An outcome that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or At December 31, 2014 the Company recognized a liability of credit in a future accounting period.
At December 31, 2014 $207.8 million for total unrecognized tax benefi ts 2013: provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other $355.2 million and had accrued $25.8 million 2013: $112.2 disputes totaled $16.9 million December 31, 2013: $72.7 million for the payment of interest and penalties.
Company is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of a tax The outcomes of these proceedings are not always assessment.
These payments are either offset against the predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For those income tax liability or establish an income tax receivable but legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at least do not reduce the provision for unrecognized tax benefi ts.
reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible The Company has signifi cant deferred tax assets due to loss in excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if various tax attributes, including net operating losses NOLs, any, where such excess is both material and estimable.
The tax credits from Research and Development and Investment estimation of the likelihood, amount and range of any loss Tax Credits principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, arising from these proceedings requires signifi cant judgment.
Switzerland, Belgium, Germany and the UK.
At December 31, Any revisions in the Companys estimates, or outcomes upon 2014 the Company had gross deferred tax assets of $999 settlement that deviate from the Companys best estimate million 2013: $822 million: 2012: $764 million, against which may result in an additional expense or credit in a future the Company had recorded valuation allowances of $325 accounting period, which could materially impact the million 2013: $282 million: 2012: $269 million and deferred Companys fi financial condition or results of operations.
128 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued defi ned under US GAAP, including: the probability of, and v Contingent consideration receivable from divestments period in which, the relevant milestone event is expected to of products or businesses be achieved: the amount of royalties that will be payable The Company is eligible to receive contingent consideration based on forecast net sales of the relevant products: and the from Organogenesis and Noven in relation to the divestment discount rates to be applied in calculating the present values of the Companys DERMAGRAFT business and DAYTRANA of the relevant milestone or royalty.
Signifi cant judgment is product, respectively.
At December 31, 2014 the Company employed by the Company in developing these estimates and has contingent consideration assets of $15.9 million 2013: assumptions.
If actual events differ from managements $36.1 million.
estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys fi financial condition and results of Consideration receivable by the Company on the divestment operations could be materially affected in the period of any of product rights or businesses typically includes up-front such change of estimate.
receipts and or milestones and royalties which are contingent on the outcome of future events with such milestones and vii Assets held for sale royalties being, for example, based upon the future sales Assets held for sale comprise noncurrent assets or disposal performance of the divested product or business.
Contingent groups together with any liabilities, the carrying amounts of consideration occasionally represents a signifi cant proportion which will be realized principally through a sale transaction of the economic value receivable by the Company for a expected to conclude within the next 12 months, rather than divested product or business.
In these situations the through continued use.
Company initially recognizes this contingent consideration as At December 31, 2014 the carrying value of assets held for an asset at its divestment date fair value, with resale in the consolidated balance sheet is $nil 2013: $31.6 measurement of this asset to its then current fair value at million.
In 2013 the assets and liabilities within this disposal group all The Company estimates the fair value of contingent related to the disposal of the DERMAGRAFT asset group, the consideration receivable using the income approach, based divestment of which occurred on January 16, 2014.
At the on a discounted cash fl ow method.
This discounted cash fl ow time of their classifi cation as held for sale, such assets are approach uses signifi cant unobservable Level 3 inputs as collectively measured at the lower of their carrying amount defi ned in US GAAP including: the probability weightings and fair value less costs to sell, and depreciation or applied to different sales scenarios and related forecast future amortization ceases.
An impairment charge of $637.0 million royalties receivable under scenarios developed by the was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013 refl ecting the Company: and the discount rate to be applied in calculating adjustment of the DERMAGRAFT disposal groups carrying the present value of these forecast future cash fl ows.
amount to its fair value less cost to sell.
Signifi cant judgment is employed by the Company in developing these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events Signifi cant judgment is employed by the Company in differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that assessing: at what point all the held for sale presentation these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys conditions are met for the disposal group: whether it is fi financial condition and results of operations could be affected necessary to allocate goodwill to the disposal group: and in the period of any such change of estimate.
estimating both the fair value of the disposal group and the incremental costs to transact a sale of the disposal group.
If vi Contingent consideration payable actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration extent that estimates of selling price or costs to sell are payable at December 31, 2014 was $629.9 million December adjusted in the future, the Companys fi financial condition and 31, 2013: $405.9 million.
results of operations could be affected in the period of any Contingent consideration payable represents i future such change of estimate.
milestones the Company may be required to pay in 4. Business combinations conjunction with various business combinations and ii future Acquisition of NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc. NPS Pharma royalties payable as a result of certain business combinations On February 21, 2015 Shire completed its acquisition of and licenses.
The amounts ultimately payable by Shire are 100% of the outstanding share capital of NPS Pharma for $46 dependent upon i the successful achievement of the relevant per share or approximately $5,200 million.
milestones and ii future net sales of the relevant products over the life of the milestone or royalty term respectively.
The acquisition of NPS Pharma, a rare disease-focused biopharmaceutical company, adds NATPARA NATPAR, The Company re-measures its contingent consideration approved for the treatment of hypoparathyroidism HPT in payable to its then current fair value at each balance sheet the US and GATTEX REVESTIVE, approved for the treatment date.
Gains or losses arising on changes to the fair value of of adults with short bowel syndrome SBS in the US and contingent consideration payable are recorded within the EU, to Shires portfolio.
Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated statement of income.
The acquisition of NPS Pharma will be accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method.
The The Company estimates the fair value of contingent assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from NPS Pharma consideration payable using the income approach, based on will be recorded at the date of acquisition, at their fair value.
a discounted cash fl ow method.
The discounted cash fl ow Shires consolidated fi financial statements will refl ect these fair method uses signifi cant unobservable Level 3 inputs as ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued Theacquisition-date fair value of cash consideration paid values at, and the results of NPS Pharma will be included in onclosing was $3,997 million.
Shires consolidated statement of income from, February 21, The acquisition of ViroPharma added CINRYZE C1 esterase 2015.
As the initial accounting for the business combination inhibitor [human] to Shires portfolio of currently marketed has not yet been completed, further disclosures relating to products.
CINRYZE is a leading brand for the prophylactic this acquisition will be included in the Companys Form 10-Q treatment of Hereditary Angioedema HAE in adolescents for the three months ended March 31, 2015. and adults.
Acquisition of Meritage Pharma Inc. Meritage The acquisition of ViroPharma has been accounted for Prior to the acquisition of ViroPharma by Shire see below, asabusiness combination using the acquisition method.
ViroPharma had entered into an exclusive development and Theassets acquired and the liabilities assumed from option agreement with Meritage, a privately owned US ViroPharma have been recorded at their fair values at the company focusing on developing oral budesonide suspension dateof acquisition, being January 24, 2014.
The Companys as a treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis.
Under the terms consolidated fi financial statements include the results of of this agreement Meritage controlled and conducted all ViroPharma from January 24, 2014. related research up to achievement of pre-defi ned development success criteria at which point Shire had the The amount of ViroPharmas post acquisition revenues and option to acquire Meritage for upfront cash consideration of pre-tax losses included in the Companys consolidated $69.9 million and potential additional payments of up to $175 statement of income for the year to December 31, 2014 were million, upon achievement of certain clinical and regulatory $538.1 million and $77.8 million, respectively.
On February 18, 2015 Shire acquired all the includes charges on the unwind of inventory fair value outstanding equity of Meritage.
As the initial accounting for adjustments of $91.9 million, intangible asset amortization this business combination has not yet been completed, of$106.6 million and integration costs of $101.1 million.
further disclosures related to this acquisition will be included The purchase price allocation was fi nalized in the fourth in the Companys Form 10-Q for the three months ended quarter of 2014.
During the measurement period the March 31, 2015.
Company obtained improved information about the Acquisition of ViroPharma Incorporated ViroPharma acquisition date fair value of the IPR&D asset VP20621, On January 24, 2014, Shire completed its acquisition of anon-toxigenic strain of C diffi cile for the treatment and 100%of the outstanding share capital of ViroPharma.
prevention of C diffi cile-associated diarrhea CDAD.
Preliminary fair value Measurement Acquisition as initially period date fair value reported adjustments as adjusted Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed $M $M $M Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 232.6 232.6 Short-term investments 57.8 57.8 Accounts receivable 52.2 52.2 Inventories 203.5 0.1 203.6 Deferred tax assets 100.2 0.5 100.7 Purchased call option 346.7 346.7 Other current assets 42.5 8.4 50.9 Total current assets 1,035.5 9.0 1,044.5 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 24.7 24.7 Goodwill 1,536.6 118.9 1,655.5 Other intangible assets Currently marketed products 2,320.0 2,320.0 In-Process Research and Development IPR&D 530.0 215.0 315.0 Other non-current assets 11.6 1.2 10.4 Total assets 5,458.4 88.3 5,370.1 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 116.6 6.1 122.7 Convertible bond 551.4 551.4 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 695.9 92.4 603.5 Other non-current liabilities 97.5 2.0 95.5 Total liabilities 1,461.4 88.3 1,373.1 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 3,997.0 3,997.0 Consideration Cash consideration paid 3,997.0 3,997.0 130 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 4. Business combinations continued b Other intangible assets IPR&D Thisinformation primarily comprises insights gained from The IPR&D asset of $315.0 million relates to maribavir now continued divestment efforts with a number of pharmaceutical SHP620, an investigational antiviral product for companies during 2014.
The conclusion of this process in cytomegalovirus.
The fair value of this IPR&D asset was thefourth quarter indicated that the acquisition date fair estimated based on an income approach, using the present valueof this IPR&D asset should be adjusted.
As a result the value of incremental after tax cash fl ows expected to be Company has retrospectively adjusted the preliminary generated by this development project after the deduction amounts recognized as at the acquisition date to refl ect this ofcontributory asset charges for other assets employed in new information.
The adjustment reduced the fair value of this project.
The estimated cash fl ows have been probability IPR&D intangible assets acquired by $215 million and reduces adjusted to take into account the stage of completion and the related non-current deferred tax liability by $80.2 million.
theremaining risks and uncertainties surrounding the future The residual difference of $134.8 million has been recorded development and commercialization.
as an increase in goodwill.
The Companys allocation of the The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely purchase price to the fair value of assets acquired and completion of the acquired IPR&D project include the ability liabilities assumed, including the measurement period to confi rm the effi cacy of the technology based on the data adjustment with respect to VP20621 and certain other from clinical trials, and obtaining the relevant regulatory immaterial measurement period adjustments during 2014, approvals as well as other risks as described in the isoutlined in the table opposite.
Companys annual report on Form 10-K.
The valuation a Other intangible assets currently marketed products ofIPR&D has been based on information available at the Other intangible assets totaled $2,320.0 million at the date timeof the acquisition and information obtained during the ofacquisition, relating to intellectual property rights acquired measurement period and on expectations and assumptions for ViroPharmas currently marketed products, primarily that i have been deemed reasonable by the Companys attributed to CINRYZE, for the routine prophylaxis against management and ii are based on information, expectations HAE attacks in adolescent and adult patients.
Shire also and assumptions that would be available to a market obtained intellectual property rights to three other participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the commercialized products, PLENADREN, an orphan drug for assumptions and events associated with such assets will the treatment of adrenal insuffi ciency in adults, BUCCOLAM, occur as projected.
For these reasons, the actual cash fl ows an oromucosal solution for the treatment of prolonged, acute, may vary from forecast future cash fl ows.
and convulsive seizures in infants, toddlers, children and The estimated probability adjusted after tax cash fl ows used adolescents and VANCOCIN, an oral capsule formulation in fair valuing other intangible assets have been discounted forthe treatment of C. diffi cile-associated diarrhea CDAD, atrates ranging from 9.5% to 10.0%.
which was divested by Shire in the third quarter of 2014 seeNote 5 for details.
The fair value of currently marketed c Goodwill products has been estimated using an income approach, Goodwill arising of $1,655.5 million, which is not deductible based on the present value of incremental after tax cash fl ows for tax purposes, includes the expected operational synergies attributable to each separately identifi able intangible asset.
that will result from combining the commercial operations ofViroPharma with those of Shire valued at approximately The estimated useful lives of the CINRYZE, PLENADREN $0.4billion : other synergies expected to be realized due to andBUCCOLAM intangible assets range from 10 to 23 years Shires structure: intangible assets that do not qualify for weighted average 22 years, with amortization being separate recognition at the time of the acquisition: and the recorded on a straight line basis.
value of the assembled workforce.
2014 2013 $M $M Revenues 6,053.9 5,374.9 Net income from continuing operations 3,283.9 1,163.8 Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per share basic 560.1c 210.8c Net income from continuing operations per share diluted 555.7c 197.2c The unaudited pro forma financial information above re ects the following pro forma adjustments: i an adjustment to decrease net income by $25.3 million for the year December 31, 2013 to re ect acquisition costs incurred by Shire, and increase net income by$25.3 million for the year to December 31, 2014 to eliminate acquisition costs incurred: ii an adjustment to decrease net income by $59.0 million for the year to December 31, 2013, to re ect charges on the unwind of inventory fair value adjustments asacquisition date inventory is sold, and a corresponding increase in net income for the year to December 31, 2014: iii an adjustment of $48.1 million in year to December 31, 2013 to re ect additional interest expense associated with the drawdown of debt to partially finance theacquisition of ViroPharma and the amortization of related deferred debt issuance costs: iv an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately $5.4 million in the year to December 31, 2014 and $58.3 million in the period to December31,2013, related to amortization of the fair value of identi able intangible assets acquired and the elimination of ViroPharmas historical intangible assetamortization expense: v an adjustment to re ect the additional depreciation expense $0.1 million and $0.6 million in the year to December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 respectively related to the fair value adjustment to property, plant and equipment acquired: The adjustments above are stated net of tax effects, where applicable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued Unaudited pro forma fi financial information to present the In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company expensed combined results of operations of Shire and Lumena are not costs of $135.5 million 2013: $12.8 million relating to the provided as the impact of this acquisition is not material to acquisition and post-acquisition integration of ViroPharma, the Companys results of operations for any period presented.
which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition Acquisition of Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd. Fibrotech costs in the Companys consolidated statement of income.
On July 4, 2014 Shire completed its acquisition of Fibrotech, Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information an Australian biopharmaceutical company developing a The following unaudited pro forma fi financial information newclass of orally available drugs with a novel mechanism presents the combined results of the operations of Shire ofaction which has the potential to address both the andViroPharma as if the acquisition of ViroPharma had infl ammatory and fi brotic components of disease processes.
The unaudited pro forma The acquisition of Fibrotech is expected to strengthen the fi financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the Companys growing and innovative portfolio targeting renal consolidated results of operations actually would have been and fi brotic diseases, and leverage existing renal capabilities.
had the acquisition been completed at the date indicated.
In The acquisition date fair value of the consideration totaled addition, the unaudited pro forma fi financial information does $122.6 million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing not purport to project the future results of operations of the of $75.6 million and the fair value of contingent consideration combined Company.
The maximum amount of contingent Acquisition of Lumena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Lumena cash consideration which may be payable by Shire in future On June 11, 2014 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% periods is $482.5 million dependent upon achievement of ofthe outstanding share capital of Lumena, a privately certain clinical development, regulatory and commercial ownedUS incorporated biopharmaceutical company.
Theacquisition date fair value of the consideration The acquisition of Fibrotech has been accounted for as totaled$464.3 million, comprising cash consideration paid abusiness combination using the acquisition method.
onclosing of $300.3 million and the fair value of contingent Theassets and liabilities assumed from Fibrotech have consideration payable of $164 million.
The maximum amount beenrecorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition of contingent cash consideration which may be payable by being July 4, 2014.
The Companys consolidated fi financial Shire in future periods is $265 million dependent upon statements and results of operations include the results of achievement of certain clinical development milestones.
This acquisition brings two novel, orally active therapeutic The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D compounds SHP625 formerly LUM001, in Phase 2 clinical $11 million, net current assets $1.4 million and goodwill development and SHP626 formerly LUM002, ready to enter $110.2 million.
Goodwill arising of $110.2 million is not Phase 1b clinical development in the fi first half of 2015.
Both expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Goodwill compounds are inhibitors of the apical sodium-dependent generated from the acquisition was primarily attributed to bile acid transport ASBT, which is primarily responsible acquired scientifi c knowledge in fi brotic diseases and the forrecycling bile acids from the intestine to the liver.
SHP625 potential to optimize the novel mechanism of action to other is being investigated for the potential relief of the extreme fi brotic conditions.
itching associated with cholestatic liver disease and three other indications.
SHP626 is in development for the treatment In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company expensed of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
costs of $3.3 million 2013: $nil relating to the Fibrotech acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration The acquisition of Lumena has been accounted for as a andacquisition costs in the Companys consolidated business combination using the acquisition method.
Theassets and liabilities assumed from Lumena have beenrecorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, Unaudited pro forma fi financial information to present the being June 11, 2014.
The Companys consolidated fi financial combined results of operations of Shire and Fibrotech are not statements and results of operations include the results of provided as the impact of this acquisition is not material to Lumena from June 11, 2014. the Companys results of operations for any period presented.
The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D Other Acquisitions $467 million, net current assets assumed $52.6 million, On July 9, 2014 Shire acquired BIKAM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. including cash of $46.3 million, net non-current liabilities BIKAM, a US-based biopharmaceutical company with assumed including deferred tax liabilities $169.9 million and pre-clinical compounds that could provide an innovative goodwill $114.6 million.
Goodwill arising of $114.6 million is approach to treating autosomal dominant retinitis not deductible for tax purposes.
In the third quarter of 2014 Shire alsoacquired certain assets and employees related to In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company expensed theproduction of BUCCOLAM from its previous contract costs of $6.9 million 2013: $nil relating to the Lumena manufacturer SCM Pharma Limited SCM.
The aggregate acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration acquisition date fair value of the consideration for these two andacquisition costs in the Companys consolidated acquisitions was $17.9 million, comprising cash paid on incomestatement.
closing of $12.1 million and the fair value of contingent 132 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 4. Business combinations continued within Integration and acquisition costs relating to the consideration payable in respect of BIKAM of $5.8 million.
The charge in 2014 and the credit in Inrespect of BIKAM the maximum contingent consideration 2013 arises principally due to re-measuring the fair value of which may be payable by Shire in future periods is $92 million contingent consideration payable.
contingent upon the achievement of certain development, Acquisition of Premacure AB Premacure regulatory and commercial milestones.
On March 8, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% In connection with these two acquisitions, Shire has recorded ofthe outstanding share capital of Premacure, a privately- $1 million in current assets, $4.8 million in non-current assets owned Swedish biotechnology company.
The acquisition and $12.1 million in goodwill.
date fair value of the consideration totaled $140.2 million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing of Unaudited pro forma fi financial information to present the $30.6million, and the fair value of contingent consideration combined results of operations of Shire, BIKAM and SCM payable of $109.6 million.
The maximum amount of arenot provided as the impact of these acquisitions is not contingent cash consideration which may be payable by Shire material to the Companys results of operations for any in future periods, dependent upon the successful completion periodpresented.
of certain development and commercial milestones, is $169million.
Shire will also pay royalties on relevant net sales.
Acquisition of SARcode Bioscience Inc. SARcode On April 17, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of 100% Premacure was developing a protein replacement therapy ofthe outstanding share capital of SARcode.
The acquisition SHP607 formerly referred to as PREMIPLEX, currently in date fair value of consideration totaled $368 million, Phase 2 development, for the prevention of Retinopathy of comprising cash consideration paid on closing of $151 million Prematurity ROP.
ROP is a rare and potentially blinding and the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration eye disorder that primarily affects premature infants and is payable of $217 million.
Following top-line Phase 3 study one of the most common causes of visual loss in childhood.
results in December 2013, the maximum amount of Together, the acquisitions of SARcode and Premacure build contingent cash consideration which may now be payable Shires presence in the ophthalmic therapeutic area.
byShire in future periods is $225 million dependent upon achievement of certain net sales milestones.
The acquisition of Premacure has been accounted for as abusiness combination using the acquisition method.
This acquisition brings the global rights of a new Phase 3 Theassets and the liabilities assumed from Premacure have compound, lifi tegrast now SHP606, currently under been recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, development for the treatment of Dry Eye disease, into Shires being March 8, 2013.
The Companys consolidated fi financial portfolio.
Top-line results from OPUS-2, a Phase 3 effi cacy statements and results of operations include the results of and safety study of 5.0% SHP606 ophthalmic solution, were Premacure from March 8, 2013. announced on December 6, 2013.
On April 30, 2014 Shire announced top-line results from the prospective randomized, The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D double masked, placebo-controlled SONATA trial which inrespect of SHP607 $151.8 million, net current liabilities indicated no ocular or drug-related serious adverse events.
assumed $11.7 million, net non-current liabilities assumed, Following a meeting with the FDA, on May 16, 2014 Shire including deferred tax liabilities $29.5 million and goodwill announced that it intends to submit an NDA for SHP606 $29.6 million.
This acquisition resulted in goodwill of inthe fi first quarter of 2015 as a treatment for signs and $29.6million, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
symptoms for Dry Eye Disease in adults.
In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company expensed The acquisition of SARcode has been accounted for as a costs of $33.9 million 2013: $9.5 million relating to the business combination using the acquisition method.
The acquisition of Premacure including charges related to the assets and liabilities assumed from SARcode have been change in fair value of contingent consideration payable, recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition beingApril 17, 2013.
The Companys consolidated fi financial costs in the Companys consolidated income statement.
statements and results of operations include the results of Acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc. SARcode from April 17, 2013.
Lotus Tissue Repair The purchase price has been allocated to acquired in process On February 12, 2013 Shire completed the acquisition of research and development IPR&D in respect of SHP606 100% of the outstanding share capital of Lotus Tissue $412 million, net current liabilities assumed $8.2 million, Repair, a privately-owned US biotechnology company.
netnon-current liabilities assumed, including deferred tax Theacquisition date fair value of consideration totaled liabilities $122.4 million and goodwill $86.6 million.
This $174.2million, comprising cash consideration paid on acquisition resulted in goodwill of $86.6 million, which is not closingof $49.4 million, and the fair value of contingent deductible for tax purposes.
Goodwill includes the value of consideration payable of $124.8 million.
The maximum the assembled workforce and the related scientifi c expertise amount of contingent cash consideration which may be in ophthalmology which allows for potential expansion into payable by Shire in future periods is $275 million.
amountof contingent cash consideration ultimately payable by Shire is dependent upon achievement of certain preIn the year to December 31, 2014 the Company recorded clinical and clinical development milestones.
costs of $62.9 million 2013: a net credit of $170.7 million ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D Lotus Tissue Repair was developing a proprietary inrespect of SHP602 $166.0 million, net current liabilities recombinant form of human collagen Type VII rC7 as assumed $6.6 million, net non-current liabilities assumed thefi first and only intravenous protein replacement therapy including deferred tax liabilities $46.2 million and goodwill currently being investigated for the treatment of Dystrophic $46.1 million.
Goodwill arising of $46.1 million is not Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB.
DEB is a devastating orphan deductible for tax purposes.
disease for which there is no currently approved treatment Following the decision to place the ongoing Phase 2 clinical option other than palliative care.
The acquisition adds to trials on hold, the Company recorded an impairment charge Shires pipeline a late-stage pre-clinical product for the inrespect of SHP602 of $166.0 million in the consolidated treatment of DEB with global rights.
For further information, see Note 14.
The acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair has been In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company recorded a accountedfor as a business combination using the net credit of $71.4 million 2013: a charge of $10.4 million acquisition method.
The assets and the liabilities assumed relating to the FerroKin acquisition, which has been recorded from Lotus Tissue Repair have been recorded at their fair within Integration and acquisition costs in the Companys values at the date of acquisition, being February 12, 2013. consolidated statement of income.
The credit in 2014 arises The Companys consolidated fi financial statements and results principally due to re-measuring the fair value of contingent of operations include the results of Lotus Tissue Repair from consideration payable following the decision to place the February 12, 2013. ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial for SHP602 on clinical hold.
The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D Acquisition of certain assets & liabilities of Pervasis inrespect of rC7, now SHP608 $176.7 million, net current Therapeutics, Inc. Pervasis assets assumed $6.8 million, net non-current liabilities On April 19, 2012 Shire acquired substantially all the assumed, including deferred tax liabilities $63.4 million and assetsand certain liabilities of Pervasis.
This acquisition resulted in goodwill datefair value of the consideration totaled $26.1 million, of $54.1 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
comprising cash consideration paid on closing of $2.5 million In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company expensed and the fair value of contingent consideration payable of costs of $10.1 million 2013: $2.3 million relating to the $23.6 million.
The maximum amount of contingent cash acquisition and integration of Lotus Tissue Repair, which consideration which may be payable by Shire in future havebeen recorded within integration and acquisition costs periods is up to $169.5 million.
The amount of contingent inthe Companys consolidated income statement.
cash consideration ultimately payable by Shire is dependent upon achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory Acquisition of FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. FerroKin and net sales milestones.
On April 2, 2012 Shire completed the acquisition of 100%ofthe outstanding share capital of FerroKin.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business Theacquisition date fair value of consideration totaled $159.3 combination using the acquisition method.
The assets million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing of acquired and the liabilities assumed from Pervasis have $94.5million and the fair value of contingent consideration beenrecorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, payable of $64.8 million.
The maximum amount of contingent being April 19, 2012.
The Companys consolidated fi financial cash consideration which may be payable by Shire in future statements and results of operations include the results of periods is $225.0 million.
The amount of contingent cash theassets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Pervasis consideration ultimately payable by Shire is dependent upon from April 19, 2012.
The purchase price has been allocated the achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory toacquired IPR&D principally for SHP613, formerly referred and net sales milestones.
to as VASCUGEL $24.3 million, current liabilities assumed $0.2 million and goodwill $2.0 million.
Goodwill arising of The acquisition of FerroKin adds global rights to a Phase 2 $2.0 million is not deductible for tax purposes.
product SHP602 formerly referred to as FBS0701, to Shires pipeline.
SHP602 is intended to serve a chronic patient need In the second quarter of 2014 the Company identifi ed for treatment of iron overload following numerous blood indicators of impairment in respect of SHP613 and recorded transfusions.
In the fi first quarter of 2014, Shire decided to an impairment charge of $22.0 million in the consolidated place the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial in pediatric and adult income statement.
For further information, see Note 14. patients on hold while certain nonclinical fi findings are In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company recorded analysed and evaluated.
anet credit of $23.1 million 2013: $nil principally due to The acquisition of FerroKin has been accounted for as a re-measuring the fair value of the contingent consideration business combination using the acquisition method.
The payable, following the decision to discontinue further assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from FerroKin development of SHP613.
have been recorded at their fair values at the date of acquisition, being April 2, 2012.
The Companys consolidated fi financial statements and results of operations include the results of FerroKin from April 2, 2012.
134 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5.
Divestment of product rights On January 1, 2014 the Company transferred the marketing authorizations for the CALCICHEW range of products in the UK and Ireland to Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.
In addition, in the fi first quarter of 2014 Shire received cash consideration of $43.5 million from the sale of certain CALCICHEW trade marks to Takeda Nycomed AS Takeda, resulting in a gain net of taxes of $43.5 million being recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
In the third quarter of 2014 the Company completed the divestment of its rights to VANCOCIN, ESTRACE and EXPUTEX.
TheCompany received aggregate cash consideration of $64.9 million on the disposal of these non-core products, resulting ina gain net of taxes of $32.9 million being recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company recorded total gains on the sale of product rights, before taxes, of $88.2 million 2013: $15.9 million, 2012: $18.1 million, related to the sale of CALCICHEW trademarks to Takeda, the re-measurement of contingent consideration receivable from the divestment of DAYTRANA and the sale of non-core products.
Reorganization costs One Shire business reorganization On May 2, 2013, the Company initiated the reorganization of its business to integrate the three divisions into a simplifi ed OneShire organization in order to drive future growth and innovation.
As part of the One Shire reorganization, the Company undertook a review of all of its pipeline programs and identifi ed those projects that fi t with the Companys new strategic direction and have an acceptable likelihood of success.
Following that review, and overall streamlining of the R&D organization, several clinical and pre-clinical projects were discontinued which resulted in the elimination of a signifi cant number of R&D roles and functional roles that support R&D in Basingstoke, and some positions were re-located.
In addition the Company also relocated its international commercial hub from Nyon, Switzerland to Zug, Switzerland in 2013.
All Nyon-based employees were affected by the move to Zug.
Shire is now operating from its new Zug offi ce and is providing employees with a reasonable period of time to manage their relocations.
Certain aspects of the One Shire program were temporarily put on hold due to AbbVies offer for Shire, which was terminated in October 2014.
Subsequent to the termination of AbbVies offer, Shire announced on November 10, 2014 its plans to relocate over 500 positions to Massachusetts from its Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania, site and establish Lexington, Massachusetts, as the Companys US operational headquarters in continuation of the One Shire effi ciency program.
This relocation will streamline business globally through two principal locations, Massachusetts and Switzerland, with support from regional and countrybased offi ces around the world.
In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $180.9 million, relating to employee involuntary termination benefi ts and other reorganization costs.
Reorganization costs of $245.5 million have been incurred since May 2013.
The One Shire reorganization is expected to be substantially completed by the fi first quarter of 2016.
Currently, the Company estimates that further costs in respect of the One Shire reorganization of approximately $130 million will be expensed as incurred during 2015 and 2016.
The liability for reorganization costs arising from the One Shire business reorganization at December 31, 2014 is as follows: Opening Amount Closing liability at charged liability at January 1, to reDecember 31, 2014 organization Paid Utilized 2014 $M $M $M $M Involuntary termination benefits 15.3 156.3 133.6 38.0 Other reorganization costs 9.5 24.6 34.1 24.8 180.9 167.7 38.0 At December 31, 2014 the closing reorganization cost liability was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Integration and acquisition costs For the year to December 31, 2014 Shire recorded integration and acquisition costs of $158.8 million 2013: a net credit of $134.1 million, 2012: $13.5 million, comprising costs of $144.1 million primarily related to the acquisition and integration ofViroPharma and a net charge of $14.7 million relating to the change in fair values of contingent consideration liabilities.
Thechange in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities in the year to December 31, 2014 principally relates to the acquisition of SARcode, refl ecting Shires increased confi dence in the SHP606 program and the acquisition of FerroKin, refl ecting the decision to place the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial for SHP602 on clinical hold.
In the year to December 31, 2013 integration and acquisition costs primarily related to the acquisitions of SARcode and Lotus Tissue Repair Inc. Lotus Tissue Repair in addition to net charges related to the change in fair values of contingent consideration liabilities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable at December 31, 2014 of $1,035.1 million December 31, 2013: $961.2 million, are stated net of aprovision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $48.5 million December 31, 2013: $47.9 million, 2012: $41.7 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2014 2013 2012 $M $M $M As at January 1, 47.9 41.7 31.1 Provision charged to operations 338.2 306.8 283.3 Provision utilization 337.6 300.6 272.7 As at December 31, 48.5 47.9 41.7 At December 31, 2014 accounts receivable included $59.0 million December 31, 2013: $37.8 million related to royalty income.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and comprise: December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Finished goods 136.0 156.6 Work-in-progress 305.3 240.5 Raw materials 103.5 58.2 544.8 455.3 10.
Results of discontinued operations Following the divestment of the Companys DERMAGRAFT business in January 2014, the operating results associated with theDERMAGRAFT business have been classifi ed as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented.
The components of discontinued operations which relate to the DERMAGRAFT business are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 $M $M $M Revenues: Product revenues 1.9 89.8 153.8 Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes 88.6 1,080.9 96.4 Income taxes 211.3 326.4 36.1 Gain loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes 122.7 754.5 60.3 The gain from discontinued operations in the year to December 31, 2014 is $122.7 million, net of tax.
This gain includes a taxcredit of $211.3 million primarily driven by a tax benefi t arising following a reorganization of the RM business undertaken inthe fourth quarter of 2014, associated with the divestment of the DERMAGRAFT business in the fi first quarter of 2014.
Thisgain was partially offset by costs associated with the divestment of the DERMAGRAFT business, including a loss of $33.6million as a result of re-measuring to fair value the contingent consideration receivable from Organogenesis.
The loss from discontinued operations before income taxes in the year to December 31, 2013 includes a charge of $191.8million, being the proportion of the former Regenerative Medicine RM reporting unit goodwill impairment charge thatrelated to the DERMAGRAFT business, $636.9 million being the impairment charge recorded upon re-measurement of the divested assets to their fair value less costs to sell in the fourth quarter of 2013, and $99.6 million being amounts previously recorded to Reorganization costs in relation to the DERMAGRAFT business.
136 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11.
Prepaid expenses and other current assets December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Prepaid expenses 36.9 29.4 Income tax receivable 121.5 177.4 Value added taxes receivable 13.8 14.5 Other current assets 49.3 41.7 221.5 263.0 12.
Property, plant and equipment, net December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Land and buildings 717.1 695.0 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 494.2 467.0 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 290.0 276.2 Assets under construction 43.9 45.6 1,545.2 1,483.8 Less: Accumulated depreciation 707.7 592.0 837.5 891.8 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $163.5 million, $127.6 million, and $109.0million respectively.
Goodwill December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 2,474.9 624.6 In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company completed the acquisitions of ViroPharma, Lumena, Fibrotech, BIKAM and certain assets and employees relating to the manufacture of BUCCOLAM, which resulted in aggregate goodwill with a preliminary value of $1,890.5 million see Note 4 for details.
2014 2013 $M $M As at January 1, 624.6 644.5 Acquisitions 1,890.5 170.3 Goodwill impairment charge related to continuing operations 7.1 Goodwill impairment charge related to DERMAGRAFT business recorded to discontinued operations 191.8 Foreign currency translation 40.2 8.7 As at December 31, 2,474.9 624.6 In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $198.9 million related to the goodwill allocated to the former RM reporting unit.
Following the divestment of the DERMAGRAFT business, $191.8 million of the impairment charge was reclassifi ed to discontinued operations, being the portion of the former RM reporting unit goodwill impairment charge that related to the DERMAGRAFT business.
Other intangible assets, net December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Amortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for currently marketed products 4,816.9 2,573.3 Other intangible assets 30.0 46.1 4,846.9 2,619.4 Unamortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for IPR&D 1,550.0 951.5 6,396.9 3,570.9 Less: Accumulated amortization 1,462.5 1,258.3 4,934.4 2,312.6 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Other intangible assets, net continued The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2014 and 2013 is shown in the tablebelow: Other intangible assets 2014 2013 $M $M As at January 1, 2,312.6 2,388.1 Acquisitions 3,118.6 731.8 Divestment of non-core products refer to Note 5 17.3 Amortization charged 243.8 152.0 Amortization charged on DERMAGRAFT product technology, presented within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement 39.4 Impairment charges 190.3 19.9 Reclassification of DERMAGRAFT product technology to assets held-for-sale 611.4 Foreign currency translation 45.4 15.4 As at December 31, 4,934.4 2,312.6 In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company acquired intangible assets totaling $3,118.6 million, primarily relating to the fair value of intangible assets for currently marketed products acquired with ViroPharma of $2,320.0 million and IPR&D assets of $782.0 million which were acquired with ViroPharma and Lumena see Note 4 for further details.
The Company reviews its intangible assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances suggest that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company identifi ed indicators of impairment in respect of its SHP602 iron chelating agent for the treatment of iron overload secondary to chronic transfusion and SHP613 for the treatment of improvement in patency of arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients IPR&D assets.
The indicators of impairment related to SHP602 included the decision in the fi first quarter of 2014 to place the ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial in pediatric and adult patients on hold while certain nonclinical fi findings are analyzed and evaluated.
The Company therefore reviewed the recoverability of its SHP602 IPR&D asset in the fi first quarter of 2014 and recorded an impairment charge of $166.0 million within R&D expenses in the consolidated statement of income to record the SHP602 IPR&D asset to its revised fair value.
This fair value was based on the revised discounted cash fl ow forecasts associated with SHP602, which included a reduced probability of commercial launch, and an overall delay in the forecast timing of launch.
The indicators of impairment related to SHP613 comprised the decision in the second quarter of 2014 to discontinue further development of this asset based on portfolio prioritization as well as unexpected challenges and complexities with the development program.
In the second quarter of 2014 the Company recorded an impairment charge of $22.0 million within R&Dexpenses in the consolidated statement of income to fully write off the SHP613 IPR&D asset.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2014 will be approximately $227 million for each of the fi five years to December 31, 2019.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of acquired IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Trade accounts payable and accrued purchases 247.7 202.6 Accrued rebates Medicaid 563.9 549.1 Accrued rebates Managed care 318.2 258.1 Sales return reserve 131.7 98.8 Accrued bonuses 150.7 130.9 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 109.1 79.4 R&D accruals 88.3 69.6 Provisions for litigation losses and other claims 15.6 71.7 Other accrued expenses 284.2 228.2 1,909.4 1,688.4 138 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 16.
Other current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Income taxes payable 16.2 69.0 Value added taxes 16.6 15.8 Contingent consideration payable 194.5 12.9 Other current liabilities 35.2 21.8 262.5 119.5 17.
Borrowings Term Loan Agreement 2015 Facilities Agreement On January 11, 2015, the Company entered into a $850 million Facility Agreement with, among others, Citi Global Markets Limited acting as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner the 2015 Facility Agreement.
The 2015 Facility Agreement comprises a $850 million term loan facility.
Shire has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that are or become additional borrowers under the 2015 Facility Agreement.
The 2015 Facilities Agreement, which matures on January 10, 2016, may be used only to fi finance the purchase price payable inrespect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
The maturity date may be extended twice, at Shires option, by six months on each occasion.
On February 23, 2015 Shire requested the utilization of $850 million under the2015 Facilities Agreement to partially fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
Interest on any loans made under the 2015 Facility Agreement will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to the 2015 Facility Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.50% per annum and increases by 0.25% per annum six months after the date of the agreement and on each subsequent date falling at three-month intervals thereafter.
Shire shall also pay a commitment fee on the available but unutilized commitments under $850 million term loan facility for theavailability period applicable to each facility.
With effect from fi first utilization, the commitment fee rate will be 35% of the applicable margin.
Before fi first utilization, the commitment fee rate will increase in stages from 0% to 35% of the applicable margin over a period of three months.
The 2015 Facility Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, including the merger with NPS Pharma, Shire may elect to increase the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as defi ned in the 2015 Facility Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
The 2015 Facility Agreement restricts subject to certain exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control of Shire.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory prepayment of the facility, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facility include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facility, ii failure to satisfy any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the 2015 Facility Agreement to perform their obligations or viii if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is a party to the 2015 Facility Agreement repudiates the 2015 Facility Agreement or any other fi finance document, among others.
The 2015 Facility Agreement is governed by English law.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Borrowings continued 2013 Facilities Agreement On November 11, 2013, Shire entered into a $2,600 million facilities agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acting as lead arranger and agent the 2013 Facilities Agreement.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement comprised two credit facilities: i a $1,750 million term loan facility and ii an $850 million term loan facility.
On December 13, 2013 and at various points during the year to December 31, 2014, the Company cancelled part of the $2,600million term loan facility.
At December 31, 2014 the 2013 Facilities Agreement comprised an $850 million term loan facility which matures on November 11, 2015 and was fully utilized.
All other terms and conditions remain unchanged.
The $850 million term loan facility, which matures on November 11, 2015, has been used to fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma including certain related costs.
Interest on any loans made under the facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to the $850 million term loan facility commenced at LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum until delivery ofthe compliance certifi cate for the year ending December 31, 2013 and is subject to change depending upon the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, in respect of the most recently completed fi financial year or fi financial half year.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default,  that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of Shire each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, including the ViroPharma acquisition, Shire may elect to increase the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period inwhich the acquisition was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as defi ned in the 2013 Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain covenants Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business disposals by Shire must be applied towards the mandatory prepayment of the facilities, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facilities include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facilities, ii failure to satisfy anyfi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the fi finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any of itssubsidiaries that are parties to the 2013 Facilities Agreement to perform their obligations or viii if Shire or any subsidiary ofShire which is a party to the 2013 Facilities Agreement repudiates the 2013 Facilities Agreement or any other fi finance document, among others.
The 2013 Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
Revolving Credit Facility RCF On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2,100 million revolving credit facilities agreement the RCF with a number offi financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services PLC trading as Santander Global Banking and Markets, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Barclays Bank PLC, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation acted as mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners and DNB Bank ASA, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Credit Suisse AG, London Branch, Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S. A. Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acted as arrangers.
Shire is an original borrower under the RCF and has agreed to act as guarantor for its subsidiaries, which are also original borrowers and for any other of its subsidiaries that become additional borrowers thereunder.
At December 31, 2014 theRCF was undrawn.
On February 23, 2015 Shire requested the utilization of $1,300 million under the RCF to partially fi finance the purchase price payable in respect of Shires acquisition of NPS Pharma including certain related costs.
The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2019, may be applied towards fi nancing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
The RCF incorporates a $250 million US Dollar and Euro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
The RCF became immediately available for general corporate purposes as outlined above, on satisfaction of certain customary conditions precedent including the cancellation of Shires existing multicurrency term and revolving facilities agreement dated November 23, 2010 the 2010 RCF with a number of fi financial institutions, for which Abbey National Treasury Services PLC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited formerly Banc of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank PLC formerly Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Lloyds Bank PLC formerly Lloyds TSB Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC acted as lead arrangers the facilities under which at such time were undrawn.
140 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17.
Borrowings continued Interest on any loans made under the RCF will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate for the RCF willbe: LIBOR or, in relation to any revolving loan in Euro, EURIBOR : plus 0.30% per year until delivery of the fi first compliance certifi cate required to be delivered after the date of the RCF, subject to change thereafter depending upon i the prevailing ratioof Net Debt to EBITDA each as defi ned in the RCF in respect of the most recently completed fi financial year or fi financial half year and ii the occurrence and continuation of an event of default in respect of the fi financial covenants or the failure to provide a compliance certifi cate.
Shire shall also pay i a commitment fee equal to 35% per year of the applicable margin on available commitments under theRCF for the availability period applicable thereto and ii a utilization fee equal to a 0.10% per year of the aggregate of theamount requested by the borrower in a utilization request the Base Currency Amount of all outstanding loans up to anaggregate Base Currency Amount equal to $700 million, b 0.15% per year of the amount by which the aggregate BaseCurrency Amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $700 million but is equal to or less than $1,400 million and c 0.30% per year of the amount by which the aggregate Base Currency Amount of all outstanding loans exceeds $1,400 million.
The RCF includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that Shires i ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA in respect of the most recently-ended 12-month Relevant Period each as defi ned in theRCF must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 except that, following an acquisition fulfi lling certain criteria, Shire may on a onceonly basis elect to increase this ratio to 4.0:1 for the Relevant Period in which the acquisition was completed and for thatimmediately following and ii ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest for the most recently-ended 12-month Relevant Period eachas defi ned in the RCF must not be less than 4.0:1.
The RCF restricts subject to certain exceptions Shires ability to incur additional fi financial indebtedness, grant security over itsassets or provide loans grant credit.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control of Shire, subject to certain exceptions for schemes of arrangement and analogous schemes.
Events of default under the facilities include, among others: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Finance Documents as defi ned in the RCF, ii failure to satisfy any fi financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the Finance Documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other fi financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or fi financial condition of Shire as a whole, vii if itbecomes unlawful for Shire or any successor parent company or any of their respective subsidiaries that are parties to the RCF to perform their obligations thereunder or viii if Shire or any successor parent company or any subsidiary thereof which is a party to the RCF repudiates such agreement or other Finance Document.
The full terms of the RCF are set out in Note 17.
Other non-current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Income taxes payable 199.2 115.7 Deferred revenue 7.2 9.8 Deferred rent 6.6 11.3 Contingent consideration payable 435.4 393.0 Other non-current liabilities 88.3 58.7 736.7 588.5 19.
Commitments and contingencies a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2014 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2015 49.3 2016 28.9 2017 22.2 2018 14.9 2019 13.3 Thereafter 92.5 221.1 The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $32.9 million, $44.0 million and $43.2 million for the year to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 respectively, which is predominately included in SG&A expenses in the Companys consolidated income statement.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Commitments and contingencies continued b Letters of credit and guarantees At December 31, 2014 the Company had irrevocable standby letters of credit and guarantees with various banks and insurance companies totaling $46 million being the contractual amounts, providing security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
c Collaborative and other licensing arrangements Details of signifi cant updates in collaborative and other licensing arrangements are included below: Out-licensing arrangements Shire has entered into various collaborative and out-licensing arrangements under which the Company has out-licensed certain product or intellectual property rights for consideration such as up-front payments, development milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
In some of these arrangements Shire and the licensee are both actively involved in the development and commercialization of the licensed product and have exposure to risks and rewards dependent on its commercial success.
Under the terms of these collaborative and out-licensing arrangements, the Company may receive development milestone payments up to an aggregate amount of $39 million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount of $59 million.
The receipt of these substantive milestones is uncertain and contingent on the achievement of certain development milestones or the achievement of a specifi ed level of annual net sales by the licensee.
In the year to December 31, 2014 Shire received up-front and milestone payments totaling $2.2 million 2013: $3.0 million, 2012: $18.3 million.
In the year to December 31, 2014 Shire recognized milestone income of $16.7 million 2013: $5.0 million, 2012: $19.4 million in otherrevenues and $46.5 million 2013: $58.3 million, 2012: $83.8 million in product sales for shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
In-licensing arrangements i Strategic licensing and collaboration agreement with ArmaGen Technologies Inc. ArmaGen On July 23, 2014 Shire and ArmaGen, a US-based privately held biotechnology company, announced a worldwide licensing and collaboration agreement to develop and commercialize AGT-182, an investigational enzyme replacement therapy ERT for the potential treatment of both the central nervous system CNS and somatic manifestations in patients with Hunter syndrome MPS II.
Under the terms of the agreement, Shire has obtained worldwide commercialization rights for AGT-182 and an equity stake in ArmaGen in exchange for an up-front cash payment of $15 million.
Shire will reimburse ArmaGen for research and development work carried out by ArmaGen and pay future milestones up to a maximum of $208 million contingent upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial milestones.
ArmaGen will also be entitled to royalties on future relevant net sales.
In the year to December 31, 2014 Shires share of R&D costs under this arrangement was $1.7 million, which was expensed to R&D.
Shire and ArmaGen are conducting the collaboration through a joint steering committee.
As part of the agreement, ArmaGen is responsible for conducting and completing the Phase 1 2 study, after which point Shire will be responsible for further clinical development, including Phase 3 trials, and commercialization.
ii Research Collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the benefi t of shortened target validation and proof of concept, potentially increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver pre-clinical LNA oligonucleotides for Shire-selected orphan disease targets, and Shire will havethe exclusive right to further develop and commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
In the year to December 31, 2014 Shire paid success milestones and other support costs of $nil 2013: $1.5 million: 2012: $3.0million and $0.4 million 2013: $4.5 million: 2012: $8.1 million to Santaris respectively, which were expensed to R&D.
In2014 all existing research projects were terminated either as a result of technical failure or portfolio prioritization.
Unless newtarget indications are nominated, Shire currently has no obligations to pay Santaris development and sales milestones, orroyalties on net sales of product.
iii Collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo to develop therapeutics for hemophilia On February 1, 2012 Shire and Sangamo announced that they had entered into a collaboration and license agreement to develop therapeutics for hemophilia and other monogenic diseases based on Sangamos ZFP technology.
Sangamo is responsible for all activities through submission of Investigational New Drug Applications and European Clinical Trial Applications for each product and Shire will reimburse Sangamo for its internal and external research program-related costs.
Shire is responsible for clinical development and commercialization of products arising from the collaboration.
In the year to December 31, 2012 Shire made an upfront payment to Sangamo of $13.0 million, for technology access and R&D funding, which was expensed to R&D.
142 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19.
Commitments and contingencies continued In the year to December 31, 2014 Shire paid success milestones and other support costs of $1.0 million 2013: $nil: 2012: $nil and $22.6 million 2013: $15.2 million: 2012: $8.9 million to Sangamo respectively, which were expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining obligations to pay Sangamo research, regulatory, development and commercial milestone payments up to a maximum of $213.5 million for each current indication and to pay royalties on net sales of the product.
d Commitments i Clinical testing At December 31, 2014 the Company had committed to pay approximately $382 million December 31, 2013: $346 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
ii Contract manufacturing At December 31, 2014 the Company had committed to pay approximately $384 million December 31, 2013: $109 million in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects to pay $125 million of these commitments in 2015.
The increase in contract manufacturing commitments arises principally from commitments with ViroPharmas contract manufacturer of CINRYZE.
iii Other purchasing commitments At December 31, 2014 the Company had committed to pay approximately $265 million December 31, 2013: $128 million for future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing.
The Company expects to pay $244 million of these commitments in 2015.
The increase in other purchasing commitments arises principally from commitments with ViroPharmas suppliers of blood plasma used in the manufacturing of CINRYZE.
iv Investment commitments At December 31, 2014 the Company had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $67 million December 31, 2013: $14 million which may all be payable in 2015, depending on the timing of capital calls.
The investment commitments include additional funding to certain variable interest entities VIE of which Shire is not the primary benefi ciary.
v Capital commitments At December 31, 2014 the Company had committed to spend $3 million December 31, 2013: $12 million on capital projects.
e Legal and other proceedings The Company expenses legal costs as they are incurred.
The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records a loss contingency provision based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses may be developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, and are therefore refi ned each accounting period as additional information becomes known.
In instances where the Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no loss contingency provision is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known a loss contingency provision is recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
An outcome that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or release in a future accounting period.
At December 31, 2014, provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $16.9 million December 31, 2013: $72.7 million.
The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at least reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where such excess is both material and estimable.
VYVANSE In May and June 2011, Shire was notifi ed that six separate Abbreviated New Drug Applications ANDAs were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of all approved strengths of VYVANSE.
The notices were from Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Amneal : Watson Laboratories, Inc: Roxane Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. : and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, Actavis.
Since fi ling suit against these ANDA fi lers, along with API suppliers Johnson Matthey Inc. and Johnson Matthey Pharmaceuticals Materials collectively Johnson Matthey, Shire has been engaged in a consolidated patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against the aforementioned parties except Watson, who withdrew their ANDA.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Commitments and contingencies continued On June 23, 2014, the US District Court for the District of New Jersey granted Shires summary judgment motion holding that 18 claims of the patents-in-suit were both infringed and valid.
The ruling prevents all of the ANDA fi lers Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal, Actavis and Mylan from launching generic versions of VYVANSE until the earlier of either a successful appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or the expiration of these patents in 2023.
To appeal successfully, the ANDAdefendants must overturn the courts rulings for each of these 18 patent claims.
All of the defendants have appealed the courts summary judgment ruling to the Court of Appeals of the Federal Circuit.
No dates have been set for oral argument.
LIALDA In May 2010, Shire was notifi ed that Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA under the HatchWaxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire fi led a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
A Markman hearing took place on January 29, 2015.
The previously scheduled trial date has been vacated: at present, there is no trial date.
In February 2012, Shire was notifi ed that Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corporation Osmotica had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire fi led a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Osmotica.
A Markman hearing took place on August 22, 2013 and a Markman ruling was issued on September 25, 2014.
No trial date has been set.
In March 2012, Shire was notifi ed that Watson Laboratories Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire fi led a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida against Watson Laboratories Inc. -Florida and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. were subsequently added as defendants.
A trial took place in April, 2013 and on May 9, 2013 the trial court issued a decision fi nding that the proposed generic product infringes the patent-in-suit and that the patent is notinvalid.
Watson appealed the trial courts ruling to the Court of Appeals of the Federal Circuit CAFC and a hearing tookplace on December 2, 2013.
The ruling of the CAFC was issued on March 28, 2014 overruling the trial court on the interpretation of two claim terms and remanding the case for further proceedings.
Shire petitioned the Supreme Court for a writof certiori which was granted on January 26, 2015.
The Supreme Court also vacated the CAFC decision and remanded thecase to the CAFC for further consideration in light of the Supreme Courts recent decision in Teva v Sandoz.
Nodates havebeen set for the remanded case at the CAFC.
In April 2012, Shire was notifi ed that Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire fi led a lawsuit in the USDistrict Court for the Middle District of Florida against Mylan.
A Markman hearing took place on December 22, 2014.
Atrialis scheduled during the courts trial term beginning on August 3, 2015.
Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE and Louisiana Complaint related to ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA, VYVANSE and INTUNIV On September 24, 2014, Shire announced that it had resolved all matters with the federal government, the 50 states and the District of Columbia relating to a previously disclosed civil investigation of its US sales and marketing practices relating to ADDERALL XR, VYVANSE, DAYTRANA, LIALDA and PENTASA.
The investigation was led by the US Attorneys Offi ce for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Under the agreement, Shire has paid $56.5 million, and interest, fees, and costs, to resolve all issues investigated by the government.
This fi final settlement includes the resolution of two related qui tam complaints fi led against the Company and a voluntary disclosure relating to LIALDA and PENTASA.
In addition, Shire has paid $2.9 million to resolve a previously disclosed civil complaint fi led by the State of Louisiana alleging that the Companys sales, marketing, and promotion of ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA, VYVANSE and INTUNIV violated state law.
The Company recorded a $57.5 million provision related to these matters which was charged to SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2012.
As part of the resolution, Shire has entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Offi ce of Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services for a term of fi five years.
Investigation related to DERMAGRAFT The Department of Justice, including the US Attorneys Offi ce for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division and the US Attorneys Offi ce for Washington, DC, is conducting civil and criminal investigations into the sales and marketing practices of Advanced BioHealing Inc. ABH relating to DERMAGRAFT.
Following the disposal of the DERMAGRAFT business in January 2014, Shire has retained certain legacy liabilities including any liability that may arise from this investigation.
Shire is cooperating fully with these investigations.
Shire is not in a position atthis time to predict the scope, duration or outcome of these investigations.
Civil Investigative Demand relating to VANCOCIN On April 6, 2012, ViroPharma received a notifi cation that the United States Federal Trade Commission FTC is conducting an investigation into whether ViroPharma had engaged in unfair methods of competition with respect to VANCOCIN.
On August 3, 2012, and September 8, 2014, ViroPharma and Shire respectively received Civil Investigative Demands from the FTC requesting additional information related to this matter.
Shire intends to continue to cooperate fully with the FTC investigation.
At this time, Shire is unable to predict the outcome or duration of this investigation.
144 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19.
Commitments and contingencies continued Lawsuit related to supply of ELAPRASE to certain patients in Brazil On September 24, 2014 Shires Brazilian affi liate, Shire Farmaceutica Brasil Ltda, was served with a lawsuit brought by the State of Sao Paulo and in which the Brazilian Public Attorneys offi ce has intervened alleging that Shire is obligated to provide certain medical care including ELAPRASE for an indefi nite period at no cost to patients who participated in ELAPRASE clinical trials in Brazil, and seeking recoupment to the Brazilian government for amounts paid for these patients to date, and moral damages associated with these claims.
Shire intends to defend itself against these allegations but is not able to predict the outcome or duration of this case.
Accumulated other comprehensive income loss The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income loss, net of their related tax effects, in the year to December 31, 2014 are included below: Unrealized Foreign holding gain Accumulated currency on availableother translation for-sale comprehensive adjustment securities income loss $M $M $M As at January 1, 2014 110.4 0.2 110.2 Current period change: Other Comprehensive loss income before reclassification 136.1 3.7 132.4 Gain transferred to the income statement within Other income expense, net on disposal of available-for-sale securities 9.3 9.3 Net current period other comprehensive loss 136.1 5.6 141.7 As at December 31, 2014 25.7 5.8 31.5 21.
Financial instruments Treasury policies and organization The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated by its corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Company does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest rate exposure.
Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its $2,100 million RCF, its $850 million 2013 Facilities Agreement and its $850million 2015 Facilities Agreement, on which interest is at fl oating rates, to the extent any of these facilities are utilized.
AtDecember 31, 2014 the RCF was undrawn, and the Company had fully utilized the $850 million of 2013 Facilities Agreement.
Shires exposure under its $850 million 2013 Facilities Agreement is to US Dollar interest rates.
The Company has evaluated the interest rate risk on the RCF and on the 2013 and 2015 Facilities Agreements and considers the risks associated with fl oating interest rates on the instruments as appropriate.
A hypothetical one percentage point increase or decrease in the interest rates applicable to drawings under the 2013 Facilities Agreement at December 31, 2014would increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $8.5 million per annum.
The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk on its restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which interest is at fl oating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, Euro and Canadian Dollar interest rates.
As the Company maintains all of its cash, liquid investments and foreign exchange contracts on a short term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
In the year to December 31, 2014 the average interest ratereceived on cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
The largest proportion of these cash and liquid investments was in US Dollar money market and liquidity funds.
No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to December 31, 2014 to manage interest rate exposure.
TheCompany continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
Credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments, derivative contracts and trade accounts receivable from product sales and from third parties from which the Company receives royalties.
Cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including money market and liquidity funds and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard & Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which it enters into derivative instruments.
The Company limits this exposure through a system of internal credit limits which vary according to ratings assigned to the counterparties bythe major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts are major international fi nancialinstitutions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial instruments continued The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2014 there were three customers in the US that accounted for 47% of the Companys product sales.
However, such customers typically have signifi cant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered acceptable.
The Company has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defi ned credit evaluation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Companys fi financial condition and results of operations.
A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in countries outside of the United States is derived from product sales to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Companys recovery of these accounts receivable is therefore dependent upon the fi financial stability and creditworthiness of the relevant governments.
In recent years global and national economic conditions have negatively affected the growth, creditworthiness and general economic condition of certain markets in which the Company operates.
As a result, in some countries outside of US, being Argentina, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain collectively the Relevant Countries the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance of receivables due from government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Company continued to receive remittances in relation to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers in all the Relevant Countries in the year December 31, 2014, including receipts of $98 million and $143 million in respect of Spanish and Italian receivables, respectively.
To date the Company has not incurred signifi cant losses on accounts receivable in the Relevant Countries, and continues to consider that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
The Company will continue to evaluate all its accounts receivable for potential collection risks and has made provision for amounts where collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the fi financial condition of the Relevant Countries or other Eurozone countries suffer signifi cant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments becomes uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries withdraws from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required, and losses may be incurred, in future periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the Companys fi financial condition and results of operations.
Foreign exchange risk The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the US Dollar, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Franc and the Euro.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where signifi cant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly to intercompany fi nancing.
The foreign exchange contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
Cash fl ows from derivative instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated cash fl ow statement, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specifi c investing or fi nancing activities.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US Dollars of the fi financial statements of non-US Dollar functional subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2014 the Company had 56 swap and forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swap and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Company did not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
The Company has master netting agreements with a number of counterparties to these foreign exchange contracts and on the occurrence of specifi ed events, the Company has the ability to terminate contracts and settle them with a net payment by one party to the other.
The Company has elected to present derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet.
As at December 31, 2014 the potential effect of rights of set off associated with the foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities of $4.2 million, resulting in net derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $8.4 million and $3.6 million, respectively.
Further details are included below: Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Assets Prepaid expenses and other current assets 12.6 4.0 Liabilities Other current liabilities 7.8 2.8 146 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21.
Financial instruments continued Net gains losses both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classifi ed in the consolidated statements of income as follows: Location of net gains losses Amount of net gains losses recognized recognized in income in income December 31, December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 2012 In the year to $M $M $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income, net 8.0 1.8 6.2 These net foreign exchange gains losses are offset within Other income, net by net foreign exchange losses gains arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
Fair value measurement Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis As at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 the following fi financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : signifi cant other observable inputs Level 2 : and signifi cant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2014 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 13.1 13.1 13.1 2 Contingent consideration receivable 15.9 15.9 15.9 Foreign exchange contracts 12.6 12.6 12.6 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 7.8 7.8 7.8 3 Contingent consideration payable 629.9 629.9 629.9 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2013 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 6.7 6.7 6.7 2 Contingent consideration receivable 36.1 36.1 36.1 Foreign exchange contracts 4.0 4.0 4.0 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 2.8 2.8 2.8 3 Contingent consideration payable 405.9 405.9 405.9 1 Available-for-sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
3 Contingent consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the fi financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of fi financial instrument: Available-for-sale securities the fair values of available-for-sale securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for thoseinvestments.
Contingent consideration receivable the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash ow method.
Foreign exchange contracts the fair values of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash ows.
Contingent consideration payable the fair value of the contingent consideration payable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash ow method.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Fair value measurement continued Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Signi cant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 The change in the fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payables, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using signifi cant unobservable inputs Level 3, are as follows: 2014 2013 Contingent consideration receivable $M $M Balance at January 1, 36.1 38.3 Initial recognition of contingent consideration receivable 33.6 Loss recognized in the income statement within discontinued operations due to change in fair value during the period 33.6 Loss gain recognized in the income statement within Gain on sale of product rights due to change in fair value during the period 2.9 15.9 Reclassification of amounts to Other receivables within Other current assets 20.2 19.5 Amounts recorded to other comprehensive income within foreign currency translation adjustments 2.9 1.4 Balance at December 31, 15.9 36.1 2014 2013 Contingent consideration payable $M $M Balance at January 1, 405.9 136.4 Initial recognition of contingent consideration payable 226.7 451.4 Change in fair value during the period with the corresponding adjustment recognized as a loss in the income statement within Integration and acquisition costs 14.7 159.1 Reclassification of amounts to Other current liabilities 15.1 13.9 Change in fair value during the period with corresponding adjustment to the associated intangible asset 2.7 8.9 Amounts recorded to other comprehensive income within foreign currency translation adjustments 5.0 Balance at December 31, 629.9 405.9 Of the $629.9 million of contingent consideration payable as at December 31, 2014 $194.5 million is recorded within other current liabilities and $435.4 million is recorded within other non-current liabilities in the Companys balance sheet.
Quantitative Information about Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Signi cant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 Quantitative information about the Companys recurring Level 3 fair value measurements is included below: Financial assets: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation Significant At December 31, 2014 $M technique unobservable inputs Range Contingent consideration receivable CCR 15.9 Income approach Probability weightings applied to 10 to 70% probability weighted different sales scenarios discounted cash flow Future forecast consideration $27 million to $70 million receivable based on contractual terms with purchaser Assumed market participant 9.3% to 11.5% discount rate Financial liabilities: Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation Significant At December 31, 2014 $M technique unobservable inputs Range Contingent consideration payable 629.9 Income approach Cumulative probability of 4 to 95% probability weighted milestones being achieved discounted cash flow Assumed market participant 1.2 to 11.8% discount rate Periods in which milestones are 2015 to 2030 expected to be achieved Forecast quarterly royalties $0.2 to $7.6 million payable on net sales of relevant products 148 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 22.
Fair value measurement continued The Company re-measures the CCR relating to contingent consideration due to the Company following divestment of certain of the Companys products at fair value at each balance sheet date, with the fair value measurement based on forecast cash fl ows, over a number of scenarios which vary depending on the expected performance outcome of the products following divestment.
The forecast cash fl ows under each of these differing outcomes have been included in probability weighted estimates used by the Company in determining the fair value of the CCR.
Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various business combinations and future royalties payable as a result of certain business combinations and licenses.
Theamount ultimately payable by Shire in relation to business combinations is dependent upon the achievement of specifi ed future milestones, such as the achievement of certain future development, regulatory and sales milestones.
The Company assesses the probability, and estimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration which may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to future royalties is dependent upon future net sales of the relevant products over the life of the royalty term.
The Company assesses the present value of forecast future net sales of the relevant products and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payable could signifi cantly increase or decrease due to changes in certain assumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
Each set of assumptions and milestones is specifi c to the individual contingent consideration receivable or payable.
The assumptions include, among other things, the probability and expected timing of certain milestones being achieved, the forecast future net sales of the relevant products andrelated future royalties payable, the probability weightings applied to different sales scenarios of the Companys divested products and forecast future royalties receivable under scenarios developed by the Company, and the discount rates used to determine the present value of contingent future cash fl ows.
The Company regularly reviews these assumptions, and makes adjustments to the fair value measurements as required by facts and circumstances.
Assets Measured At Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis in the period using Signi cant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company reviewed its SHP602 IPR&D intangible asset for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $166 million, recorded within R&D in the consolidated income statement, to write down this asset to fair value.
The fair value was determined using the income approach, which used signifi cant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
These unobservable inputs included, among other things, probabilities of the IPR&D intangible asset receiving regulatory approval, risk-adjusted forecast future cash fl ows to be generated by this asset and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash fl ows.
Fair Value at the Measurement Date Fair value Valuation Significant At December 31, 2014 $M technique unobservable inputs Range SHP602 IPR&D intangible asset $nil Income approach Probability of regulatory approval 11 to 15% discounted cash being obtained flow Expected commercial launch 2021 date Assumed market 11.3% participant discount rate In the year to December 31, 2014 the Company also recognized an impairment charge of $22 million, recorded within R&D in the consolidated income statement, to write down the SHP613 IPR&D intangible asset to a revised fair value of $nil following the decision to discontinue development of this program based on portfolio prioritization as well as unexpected challenges and complexities with the development program.
The carrying amounts of other fi financial assets and liabilities materially approximate to their fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Shareholders equity Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2014, was 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 subscriber OrdinaryShares.
Dividends Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of dividends from its accumulated profi ts and other distributable reserves.
At December 31, 2014, Shire plcs distributable reserves were approximately $12.1 billion.
Treasury stock The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the EBT and under share buy-back program as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
At December 31, 2014, the EBT held 0.7 million Ordinary Shares 2013: 2.4 million: 2012: 3.8 million and 0.3 million ADSs 2013: 0.4 million: 2012: 1.1 million and shares held under the share buy-back program were 9.0 million Ordinary Shares 2013: 9.8 million: 2012: 3.6 million and 0.9 million ADSs 2013: 0.9 million: 2012: 0.3 million.
During the year to December 31, 2014 the Company did not purchase any shares either through the EBT or under any share buy-back program.
In the year to December 31, 2013 a total of 4.2 million Ordinary Shares 2012: 4.5 million and 0.8 million ADSs 2012: 0.9 million had been purchased for total consideration of $243.8 million 2012: $205.8 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
Share buy-back Program In 2012 the Company commenced a share buy-back program of up to $500 million through both direct purchases of Ordinary Shares and through the purchase of Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
The purchases have been made through independent third parties who have made trading decisions independently of, and uninfl uenced by, the Company.
The independence of the third parties enabled the Company to purchase Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs during close periods and other prohibited periods, should they arise.
The amount, timing or prices of purchases, varied based on market conditions and other factors.
The shares purchased to date are held as treasury shares.
During the year ending December 31, 2013, the Company made on-market repurchases totaling 6,191,965 Ordinary Shares ata cost of $193 million excluding transaction costs.
This represents 1.0% of the issued share capital of the Company as atthe end of the quarter.
Ordinary Shares purchased may be cancelled or be held as treasury shares, in accordance with theauthority renewed by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
At its AGM on April 24, 2012 the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 56,253,208 of its own Ordinary Shares.
That authority expired atthe AGM held on April 30, 2013 and was renewed.
Under the new authority, which expires on the earlier of July 29, 2014 orthe conclusion of the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 55,741,587 of its own Ordinary Shares.
On November 11, 2013, contemporaneous with Shires announcement of its acquisition of ViroPharma, the Companys share buyback program was terminated.
Since the inception of the share buyback program the Company had purchased $300 million of Ordinary Shares and Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
Conversion of Shires 2.75% Convertible Bonds On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption notice under the Trust Deed dated May 9, 2007 to holders of the Companys Bonds.
Consequently, as of December 31, 2013, Bondholders had voluntarily converted the Bonds into 33,806,464 fully paid Ordinary Shares.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust Shire has put into place income access arrangements which enable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose whether they receive their dividends from Shire, a company tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company tax resident in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: i If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
150 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23.
Shareholders equity continued iii An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that she he will receive his her dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
iv An ordinary shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer Ordinary Shares at the fi first record date after she he fi first becomes an ordinary shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc articles of association such that she he will receive his her dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements, she he must withdraw his her Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her to receive dividends from Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Trustee for the benefi t of all ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what would have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the Depositary who have made or are deemed to have made an income access share election.
In the year ended December 31, 2014 Old Shire paid dividends totaling $112.8 million 2013: $91.1 million: 2012: $81.5 million on the income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire.
Earnings per share The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2014 2013 2012 $M $M $M Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 3,282.8 1,419.6 805.7 1 Gain loss from discontinued operations 122.7 754.5 60.3 Numerator for basic earnings per share 3,405.5 665.1 745.4 Interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 28.3 31.3 Numerator for diluted earnings per share 3,405.5 693.4 776.7 Weighted average number of shares: Millions Millions Millions 1 Basic 586.7 552.0 555.4 Effect of dilutive shares: 2 Share based awards to employees 4.6 4.8 4.6 3 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.5 33.5 Diluted 591.3 590.3 593.5 1 Excludes shares purchased by the EBT and presented by Shire as treasury stock.
2 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
3 At December 31, 2013, Bondholders had voluntarily converted $1,099,050,000 aggregate principal amount of the Bonds into 33,806,464 fully paid Ordinary Shares.
The remaining outstanding Bonds in an aggregate principle amount of $950,000 were redeemed pursuant to the option redemption notice issued on November 26, 2013.
The Company has calculated the impact of the Bonds on diluted EPS from January 1, 2013 to the actual date of conversion of the Bonds using the if-convertedmethod.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Earnings per share continued The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: Year to December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Earnings per ordinary share basic Earnings from continuing operations 559.6c 257.2c 145.1c Gain loss from discontinued operations 20.9c 136.7c 10.9c Earnings per ordinary share basic 580.5c 120.5c 134.2c Earnings per ordinary share diluted Earnings from continuing operations 555.2c 245.3c 141.0c Gain loss from discontinued operations 20.8c 127.8c 10.1c Earnings per ordinary share diluted 576.0c 117.5c 130.9c The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2014 2013 2012 No.
of shares Millions Millions Millions 1 Share based awards to employees 0.3 0.5 6.7 1 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period or b the required performance conditions were not satis ed as at the balance sheet date.
Segmental reporting Shire comprises a single operating and reportable segment engaged in the research, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of innovative specialist medicines to meet signifi cant unmet patient needs.
This segment is supported by several key functions: a Pipeline group, consisting of R&D and Corporate Development, which prioritizes its activities towards late stage development programs across a variety of therapeutic areas, while focusing its pre-clinical development activities primarily in Rare Diseases: a Technical Operations group responsible for the Companys global supply chain: and an In-line marketed products group focuses on commercialized products.
The In-Line marketed products group has commercial units that focus exclusively on the commercial execution of its marketed products including inthe areas of Rare Diseases, Neuroscience, and GI and Internal Medicine, and to support the development of our pipeline candidates, in Ophthalmics.
This ensures that the Company provides innovative treatments, and services the needs of its customers and patients, as effi ciently as possible.
The business is also supported by a simplifi ed, centralized corporate function group.
None of these functional groups meets all of the criteria to be an operating segment.
This single operating and reportable segment is consistent with the fi financial information regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee which is Shires chief operating decision maker for the purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, and planning and forecasting future periods.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2014 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Ireland 18.5 22.5 20.6 United Kingdom 201.4 206.7 207.0 North America 4,354.8 3,386.2 3,006.1 Rest of World 1,447.4 1,318.9 1,293.7 Total revenues 6,022.1 4,934.3 4,527.4 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and fi financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefi ts arise: 2014 2013 Year to December 31, $M $M Ireland 3.1 5.8 United Kingdom 67.4 70.3 North America 750.4 802.9 Rest of World 23.3 13.8 Total 844.2 892.8 152 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25.
Receipt of break fee On July 18, 2014, the Boards of AbbVie and Shire announced that they had agreed the terms of a recommended combination of Shire with AbbVie, subject to a number of conditions including approval by shareholders and regulators.
On the same date Shire and AbbVie entered into a co-operation agreement in connection with the recommended combination.
On October 16, 2014, the Board of AbbVie confi rmed that it had withdrawn its recommendation of its offer for Shire as a result of the anticipated impact of a US Treasury Notice on the benefi ts that AbbVie expected from its offer.
As AbbVies offer was conditional on the approval of its stockholders, and given their Boards decision to change its recommendation and to advise AbbVies stockholders to vote against the offer, there was no realistic prospect of satisfying this condition.
Accordingly, Shires Board agreed with AbbVie to terminate the cooperation agreement on October 20, 2014.
The Company entered into a termination agreement with AbbVie, pursuant to which AbbVie paid the break fee due under the cooperation agreement of approximately $1,635.4 million.
The Company has obtained advice that the break fee should not be taxable in Ireland.
TheCompany has therefore concluded that no tax liability should arise and has not recognized a tax charge in the income statement in the current accounting period.
However, this has not been agreed with the tax authorities.
Retirement bene ts The Company makes contributions to defi ned contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Companys contribution is fi xed at a set percentage of each employees pay.
Company contributions to personal defi ned contribution pension plans totaled $49.8 million, $45.7 million and $46.4 million for the years to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Taxation The components of pre-tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 1,472.0 47.8 74.7 UK 63.1 10.9 30.7 US 1,025.9 1,153.3 683.8 Other jurisdictions 775.2 577.2 368.0 3,336.2 1,693.6 1,007.8 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 consisted of the following: 2014 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: US federal tax 291.8 274.3 230.0 US state and local taxes 25.3 17.9 11.3 Other 290.9 63.4 29.0 Total current taxes 26.2 355.6 270.3 Deferred taxes: US federal tax 39.7 23.8 63.8 US state and local taxes 2.9 8.3 6.5 UK corporation tax 3.0 11.5 13.1 Other 3.9 104.7 10.0 Total deferred taxes 29.9 77.7 67.2 Total income taxes 56.1 277.9 203.1 The operating results associated with the DERMAGRAFT business have been classifi ed as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
The Group has determined the amount of income tax expense or benefi t allocable to continuing operations using the incremental approach in accordance with ASC 740-20-45-8.
The amount of Income tax attributed to discontinued operations is disclosed in Note 10.
154 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28.
Taxation continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2014 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity method investees 3,336.2 1,693.6 1,007.8 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% Non-deductible items: US R&D credit 2.5% 4.5% 2.6% Effect of the convertible bond 0.5% 0.8% 2 Intra-group items 6.3% 9.2% 16.0% Recognition of foreign tax credits 6.6% Other permanent items 0.7% 0.7% 0.8% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 0.8% 0.9% 3.4% Impact of RESOLOR impairment 4.9% Difference in taxation rates 3.4% 7.8% 7.6% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 0.2% 3.8% 1.1% Prior year adjustment 0.1% 3.4% 0.8% Change in fair value of contingent consideration 0.3% 3.6% Change in tax rates 0.5% 0.2% 0.8% Receipt of break fee 12.3% Settlement with Canadian revenue authorities 7.0% Other 1.2% 0.1% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 1.7% 16.4% 20.1% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2014 the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Company operates, including: Canada 15% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Luxembourg 21.0% : the Netherlands 25% : Belgium 33.99% : Spain 30% : Sweden 22% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 21.5% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the statutory federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of inter-company dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, non-controlling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Company fi les income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2008.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Companys tax returns for fi scal periods from 2008: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing and potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses.
While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefi ts, however, an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefi ts is as follows: 2014 2013 2012 $M $M $M Balance at January 1 355.2 278.7 265.5 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 20.3 56.8 20.5 Decreases based on tax positions taken in the current year 0.5 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 64.2 34.5 0.4 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years 211.0 0.8 3.3 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 9.4 10.6 Decreases as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 0.6 0.6 0.3 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 10.9 12.9 6.5 2 Balance at December 31 207.8 355.2 278.7 1 Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income 2 Approximately $181 million 2013: $355 million, 2012: $278 million of which would affect the effective tax rate if recognized ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Taxation continued Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years are primarily driven by the settlement with the Canadian revenue authorities.
During the year, the Company received assessments from the Canadian revenue authorities which agreed with original positions adopted by the Company in its Canadian tax returns for the period 1999-2004.
The Company received repayments from the Canadian revenue authorities totaling $417 million.
Following receipt of the assessments the Company recorded a net credit to income taxes of $235 million which includes the release of provisions for uncertain tax positions including interest and penalties of $289.4 million partially offset by associated foreign tax credits.
The Company considers it reasonably possible that certain audits currently being conducted will be concluded in the next 12 months, and as a result the total amount of unrecognized tax benefi ts recorded at December 31, 2014 could decrease by up to approximately $25 million.
As at the balance sheet date, the Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the resolution of these audits.
However, the resolution of these audits could have a signifi cant impact on the fi financial statements if the settlement differs from the amount reserved.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax positions within income taxes.
During the year ended December 31, 2014 the Company recognized a net credit to income taxes of $103.1 million and in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 a charge of $0.4 million and $5.1 million, respectively with respect to interest and penalties and the Company had a liability of $25.8 million, $112.2 million and $119.6 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
Deferred taxes The signifi cant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifi cations, as at December 31, areas follows: December 31, December 31, 2014 2013 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 3.2 5.2 Inventory and warranty provisions 28.8 48.6 1 Losses carried forward including tax credits 686.3 500.6 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful accounts 166.7 151.8 Intangible assets 5.8 10.7 Share-based compensation 29.5 25.5 Excess of tax value over book value of assets 13.4 22.1 Accruals and provisions 51.5 55.1 Other 14.0 2.6 Gross deferred tax assets 999.2 822.2 Less: valuation allowance 324.7 282.4 674.5 539.8 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 1,196.5 586.8 Excess of book value over tax value of assets and investments 231.8 56.9 Net deferred tax liabilities 753.8 103.9 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assets current 344.7 315.6 Deferred tax assets non-current 112.1 141.1 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 1,210.6 560.6 753.8 103.9 1 Excluding $24.6 million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2014 2013: $15.0 million, related to net operating losses that result from excess stock-based compensation and for which any bene t realized will be recorded to stockholders equity.
At December 31, 2014, the Company had a valuation allowance of $324.7 million 2013: $282.4 million to reduce its deferredtax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related primarily to operating loss, capital lossand tax-credit carry-forwards in Ireland 2014: $75.2 million: 2013: $78.8 million : the US 2014: $77.5 million: 2013:$60.9million : Germany 2014: $27.5 million: 2013: $30.8 million : and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2014: $144.5million: 2013: $111.9million.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized.
A valuation allowance is established where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities management considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized.
In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, projection of future taxable income, carry-forward and carry-back potential under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.
156 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28.
Taxation continued The net increase in valuation allowances of $42.3 million is principally due to increases of losses and other temporary differences in European jurisdictions where management consider that there is insuffi cient positive evidence in respect of thefactors described above to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full.
At December 31, 2014, based upon a consideration of the factors described above, management believes it is more likely thannot that the Company will realize the benefi ts of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in the future periods.
The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2014 2013 $M $M US federal tax 38.7 32.2 US state tax 82.8 61.5 UK 4.0 6.7 Republic of Ireland 75.2 78.8 Foreign tax jurisdictions 347.8 273.1 R&D and other tax credits 137.8 48.3 The approximate gross value of NOLs and capital losses at December 31, 2014 is $3,313.0 million 2013: $2,583.7 million.
Thetax-effected NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2014 $M Within 1 year 1.0 Within 1 to 2 years 0.8 Within 2 to 3 years 3.4 Within 3 to 4 years 10.3 Within 4 to 5 years 42.1 Within 5 to 6 years 20.1 After 6 years 244.0 Indefinitely 364.6 The Company does not provide for deferred taxes on the excess of the fi financial reporting over the tax basis in investments inforeign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
At December 31, 2014, that excess totalled approximately $8.1 billion.
The determination of additional deferred taxes is not practicable and is not provided.
Related parties Shire considers that ArmaGen is a related party by virtue of a combination of Shires 18% equity stake in ArmaGen and theworldwide licensing and collaboration agreement between the two parties to develop and commercialize AGT-182 seeNote 19 for details.
In the year to December 31, 2014, Shire paid $15 million in cash to ArmaGen in exchange for an equity stake in ArmaGen and the license to develop and commercialize AGT-182.
In addition, Shires share of R&D costs underthe collaboration arrangement during 2014 was $1.7 million, recorded within R&D expense in the consolidated income statement, of which $1.0 million was accrued as at December 31, 2014.
Share-based compensation plans The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the consolidated statements of income: 2014 2013 2012 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 8.5 4.4 6.3 Research and development 22.2 22.8 25.8 Selling, general and administrative 35.9 46.9 55.0 Reorganization costs 30.4 3.3 Total 97.0 77.4 87.1 Less tax 23.8 18.1 23.8 73.2 59.3 63.3 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Share-based compensation plans continued There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2014 and 2013.
At December 31, 2014, $83.1 million 2013: $97.0 million, 2012: $102.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of three years.
At December 31, 2014, $71.2 million 2013: $90.3 million, 2012: $74.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in-the-money awards based on the average share price during the year is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years 2013: 1.7 years, 2012: 1.7 years.
On May 2, 2013, the Company initiated the reorganization of its business to integrate the three divisions into a simplifi ed One Shire organization see Note 6 for details.
As a result of this reorganization the Company modifi ed the terms of certain of its equity awards to employees and Directors impacted by the One Shire reorganization.
Included in the stock compensation expense for the year to December 31, 2014, is $30.4 million 2013: $3.3 million, 2012: $nil of incremental stock compensation costs related to the modifi cation of awards granted to those individuals impacted by the One Shire reorganization.
Share-based compensation plans The Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B.
The SARs and PSAs granted under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Part A & B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
The principal terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs are as follows: i the contractual life of SARs is seven years, ii thevesting period of SARs and PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President allows for gradedvesting, and iii awards granted to Executive Directors contain performance conditions based on growth in adjusted return on invested capital Adjusted ROIC and Non-GAAP earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization Non-GAAP EBITDA.
The Company also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2014: Expiration period Compensation type Number of awards from date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share Plan Part A SARs 7,516,060 5 to 7 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme Stock options 108,479 6 months after vesting 3 or 5 years Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 120,977 On vesting date 1 to 5 years Legacy Plans Stock options 11,000 7 to 10 years 3 to 10 years, subject to market or performance criteria Stock-settled SARs and stock options 7,756,516 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share 2,166,181 3 years 3 years cliff or graded awards vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 2,166,181 Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
158 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 30.
Share-based compensation plans continued Stock-settled SARs and stock options a Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors, performance criteria are based on Non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
These performance measures provide increased alignment to the core activities and strategy of the Company.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not subject to performance conditions and are only subject to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% and 75% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, respectively.
Employees may enter into three or fi five year savings contracts.
c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the fi first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
d Legacy plans principally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Companys share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a fi xed growth rate.
At December 31, 2014 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2014 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Weighted average exercise Intrinsic price Number value Year to December 31, 2014 of shares M Outstanding as at beginning of period 18.88 15,029,182 Granted 35.38 1,762,767 Exercised 36.77 7,393,055 Forfeited 23.15 1,642,378 Outstanding as at end of period 33.27 7,756,516 93.5 Exercisable as at end of period 25.51 1,940,522 38.5 Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2014 was 6.19 2013: 3.37, 2012: 4.35.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2014 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise price exercise price Exercise remaining of awards Number of awards prices contractual outstanding of awards exercisable Number of awards outstanding term Years exercisable 182,252 3.38-14.00 2.1 13.56 180,754 13.21 5,851,309 14.01-28.00 4.6 20.14 1,723,401 19.02 1,722,955 28.01-53.87 5.4 30.60 36,367 33.31 7,756,516 1,940,522 Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Share-based compensation plans continued Performance shares Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain market, performance and service criteria.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors, the performance criteria are based on Non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
A summary of the status of the Companys performance share awards as at December 31, 2014 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Aggregate Weighted intrinsic average Number value remaining Performance share awards of shares M life Outstanding as at beginning of period 2,701,299 Granted 1,260,282 Exercised 1,324,169 Forfeited 471,231 Outstanding as at end of period 2,166,181 98.2 5.5 Exercisable as at end of period N A N A Number of awards are stated in terms of ordinary share equivalents.
The weighted average grant date fair value of performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 2014 is 35.11 2013:19.71, 2012: 21.56.
Exercises of employee share-based awards The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the years to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $200.8million, $298.3 million and $224.1 million, respectively.
The total cash received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was approximately $17.4 million, $17.2 million and$16.2 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefi t credited to additional paid-in capital for the years to December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was $39.6 million, $11.9 million and $40.1 million respectively.
The Company will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed common shares or with shares held in the EBT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the EBT during 2014 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2014 the EBT held 0.7 million Ordinary Shares and 0.3 million ADSs.
160 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 30.
Share-based compensation plans continued Valuation methodologies The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based awards include the grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Companys dividend yield.
TheCompany believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are notindicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Company under guidance issued bytheFASB on share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Period ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.3-1.8% 0.1-0.9% 0.2-1% Expected dividend yield 0.2-0.4% 0.4-0.6% 0-0.6% Expected life 1-4 years 1-4 years 1-4 years Volatility 23-27% 23-26% 24-32% Forfeiture rate 5-7% 5-9% 5-7% 1 Risk free interest rate is for UK and US grants The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the US Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: expected life estimated based on the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and post-vesting employment termination behaviour: expected volatility measured using historical daily price changes of the Companys share price over the respective expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award: and the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Auditor remuneration The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, andthe cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
2014 2013 Year to December 31, $M $M 1 Audit fees 4.0 4.0 2 Audit related fees 0.2 3 Tax fees 0.2 4 All other fees 4.4 0.4 Total fees 8.6 4.6 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Audit-related fees consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory lings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
All other fees includes reporting accountant fees of $4.0m and HR system implementation support fees of $0.4m.
Shire engaged Deloitte to perform reporting accountant services in connection with AbbVies terminated offer for Shire.
All other fees related to advisory services provided to the Companys Human Resources and Sales functions.
162 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 32.
Principal subsidiaries Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Advanced BioHealing Corp United States Auralis Limited United Kingdom Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States DuoCort Pharma AB Sweden Farboud Pty Ltd Australia FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd Australia Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc United States JPT Peptide Technologies Inc United States Lotus Tissue Repair Inc United States Lumena Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom Lumena Pharmaceuticals LLC United States Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Movetis GmbH Germany Movetis Limited United Kingdom Pharma International Insurance Limited Ireland Premacure AB Sweden and Luxembourg Premacure Uppsala AB Sweden Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom SARcode Bioscience Inc. United States SHGT Executive Services Inc. United States Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co. Ltd. China Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisitions UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Brandywine LLC United States Shire Pharma Canada ULC Canada Shire Central & Eastern Europe GmbH Germany Shire Colombia S. A.
S Colombia Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic Shire Denmark ApS Denmark Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development LLC United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Farmacutica Brasil LTDA Brazil Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire Finland Oy Finland Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SHIRE PLC 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Principal subsidiaries continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc United States SHIRE ILAC TICARET LIMITED SIRKETI Shire Pharmaceuticals Trading Limited Company Turkey Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International GmbH Switzerland Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Shire International Licensing VOF Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Ireland Finance Limited Ireland Shire Ireland Investment Limited Ireland Shire Ireland Premacure Investment Ireland Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Japan KK Japan Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Finance S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
3 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire North American Group Inc. United States Shire Norway AS Norway Shire Orphan and Rare Diseases GmbH Switzerland Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany Shire Orphan Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Pharma Korea Yuhan Hoesa Korea, Republic of Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development Inc United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland 164 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 32.
Principal subsidiaries continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Shire Properties US United States Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC United States Shire Regulatory Inc United States Shire Rus Limited Liability Company Russian Federation Shire Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire Sweden AB Sweden Shire Sweden Holdings S. a. r. l Luxembourg Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Holdings LLC United States Shire US Inc United States Shire US Investment Inc United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing Inc United States Shire ViroPharma Incorporated United States Shire-Movetis NV Belgium Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom Tanaud International BV Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom VCO Incorporated United States ViroPharma AB Sweden ViroPharma Biologics Inc United States ViroPharma Canada Incorporated Canada ViroPharma GmbH Germany ViroPharma Holdings Limited Bermuda ViroPharma Holdings LLC United States ViroPharma Limited United Kingdom ViroPharma LLC Switzerland ViroPharma Pty Ltd Australia ViroPharma Puerto Rico Inc Puerto Rico ViroPharma S. r. l Italy ViroPharma SAS France ViroPharma Spain SL Spain ViroPharma SPRL Belgium ViroPharma Sweden AB Sweden VPDE Incorporated United States VPINT Incorporated United States VPMP Incorporated United States All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are benefi cially owned directly or indirectly as to 100% and are all consolidated in theconsolidated fi financial statements of Shire plc.
