F inancial statements Significant accounting policies SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2014 Associated British Foods plc the The accounting policies set out below Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Company is a company domiciled in have been applied to all periods presented, the Company.
Control exists when the the United Kingdom.
The consolidated except where detailed otherwise.
Company has the power, directly or financial statements of the Company for indirectly, to govern the financial and Details of new accounting standards the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2014 operating policies of an entity so as which came into force in the year are comprise those of the Company and its to obtain benefits from its activities.
set out at the end of this note.
subsidiaries together referred to as the Changes in the groups ownership group and the groups interest in The consolidated financial statements of interest in a subsidiary that do not result associates and joint ventures.
the group are prepared to the Saturday in a loss of control are accounted for nearest to 15 September.
Accordingly, The financial statements were within equity.
these financial statements have been authorised for issue by the directors on Joint ventures are those entities over prepared for the 52weeks ended 4 November 2014.
91 whose activities the group has joint control, 13September 2014.
To avoid delay in The consolidated financial statements typically established by contractual the preparation of the consolidated have been prepared and approved by the agreement and requiring the venturers financial statements, the results of directors in accordance with International unanimous consent for strategic financial certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and Financial Reporting Standards as adopted and operating decisions.
associates are included up to 31August by the EU AdoptedIFRS.
The results of Illovo are included Associates are those entities in which for the period to 30September 2014 in The Company has elected to prepare its the group has significant influence, but line with Illovos local reporting date.
parent company financial statements not control, over the financial and Adjustments are made as appropriate under UK Generally Accepted Accounting operating policies.
for significant transactions or events Practice.
These are presented on pages Where the groups share of losses occurring between 13September and 131 to 135. exceeds its interest in a joint venture or 30September.
Basis of preparation associate, the carrying amount is reduced The groups business activities, together The going concern basis has been to zero and recognition of further losses with the factors likely to affect its future applied in these accounts.
The is discontinued except to the extent that development, performance and position consolidated financial statements are the group has incurred legal or constructive are set out in the Strategic report on presented in sterling, rounded to the obligations or made payments on behalf pages 6 to 35.
The financial position nearest million.
They are prepared on the of an investee.
of the group, its cash flows, liquidity historical cost basis except that biological Business combinations position and borrowing facilities are assets and certain financial instruments On the acquisition of a business, fair described in the Financial review on are stated at fair value.
Assets classified values are attributed to the identifiable pages 36 to 39.
In addition, the Principal as held for sale are stated at the lower of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities risks and uncertainties on pages 46 to 49 carrying amount and fair value less costs acquired, reflecting conditions at the date and note 24 on pages 118 to 127 provide tosell.
Adjustments to fair values details of the groups policy on managing The preparation of financial statements include those made to bring accounting its financial and commodity risks.
under Adopted IFRS requires policies into line with those of the group.
The group has considerable financial management to make judgements, Provisional fair values are finalised within resources, good access to debt markets, estimates and assumptions about the 12 months of the business combination a diverse range of businesses and a wide reported amounts of assets and liabilities, date and, where significant, are adjusted geographic spread.
It is therefore well income and expenses and the disclosure by restatement of the comparative period of contingent assets and liabilities.
The placed to manage business risks in which the acquisition occurred.
estimates and associated assumptions successfully.
Non-controlling interests are measured are based on experience.
Actual results at the proportionate share of the net Basis of consolidation may differ from these estimates.
The consolidated financial statements Judgements made by management in include the results of the Company and For business combinations executed the application of Adopted IFRS that all of its subsidiaries from the date that before 3 September 2004, goodwill have a significant effect on the financial control commences to the date that is included on the basis of its deemed statements, and estimates with a control ceases.
The consolidated cost, represented by the net book value significant risk of material adjustment financial statements also include the recorded under previous GAAP.
next year, are discussed in Accounting groups share of the after-tax results, estimates and judgements detailed on For business combinations executed in other comprehensive income and net page 96. periods ending on or before 12September assets of its joint ventures and associates 2009, goodwill arising on a business The estimates and underlying on an equity-accounted basis from the combination was the excess of the assumptions are reviewed on a regular point at which joint control or significant carrying amount of any existing equity basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates influence respectively commences, to interest plus the fair value of consideration are recognised from the period in which the date that it ceases.
payable for the additional stake over the the estimates arerevised.
fair value of the share of net identifiable Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 F inancial statements Significant accounting policies SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2014 assets and liabilities acquired including at the time a sale is recorded, based On consolidation, assets and liabilities of separately identified intangible assets, on managements best estimate of foreign operations that are denominated net of non-controlling interests.
Total the amount required to meet claims in foreign currencies are translated into consideration included acquisition costs.
sterling at the rate of exchange at the Contingent consideration was measured balance sheet date.
Income and expense Borrowing costs at fair value at the date of the business items are translated into sterling at Borrowing costs are accounted for using combination.
Subsequent changes to weighted average rates of exchange.
For qualifying contingent consideration other than items of property, plant and equipment Differences arising from the retranslation settlements are accounted for as where the commencement date for of opening net assets of group companies, adjustments togoodwill.
capitalisation was on or after 13September together with differences arising from the For business combinations executed 2009, the group capitalises borrowing restatement of the net results of group on or after 13 September 2009, existing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, companies from average rates to rates 92 equity interests in the acquiree are construction or production of those at the balance sheet date, are taken to remeasured to fair value as at the date qualifying assets as part of their cost.
of the business combination, with any The group previously expensed all Pensions and other postresulting gain or loss taken to the borrowing costs as incurred.
capitalised is taxed under current or The impact of applying the revised deferred tax as appropriate.
Goodwill arising on a business IAS 19 Employee Benefits is set out combination is the excess of the Exceptional items on page 95. remeasured carrying amount of any Exceptional items are defined as items The groups principal pension schemes existing equity interest plus the fair value of income and expenditure which are are defined benefit plans.
In addition the of consideration payable for the additional material and unusual in nature and which group has defined contribution plans stake over the fair value of the share of are considered to be of such significance and other unfunded post-employment net identifiable assets and liabilities that they require separate disclosure on liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the acquired including separately identified the face of the income statement in amount charged in the income statement intangible assets, net of non-controlling accordance with IAS 1. is the cost of benefits accruing to interests.
Total consideration does not Adjusted profit and employees over the year, plus any benefit include acquisition costs, which are earnings measures improvements granted tomembers by expensed as incurred.
Adjusted operating profit is stated the group during the year.
It also includes Contingent consideration is measured before amortisation of non-operating net interest expense or income calculated at fair value at the date of the business intangibles, profits less losses on disposal by applying the liability discount rate to combination, classified as a liability or of non-current assets and exceptional the net pension asset or liability.
For each equity usually as a liability, and items.
Adjusted profit before tax is stated plan, the difference between market subsequently accounted for in line with before amortisation of non-operating value of assets and present value of that classification.
Changes in contingent intangibles, profits less losses on liabilities is disclosed as an asset or consideration classified as a liability disposal of non-current assets, profits liability in the balancesheet.
resulting other than from the finalisation less losses on sale and closure of Any related deferred tax to the extent of provisional fair values are accounted businesses and exceptional items.
recoverable is disclosed separately in for in the income statement.
Both measures are shown on the face the balance sheet.
Remeasurements of the income statement.
Revenue are recognised immediately in other Revenue represents the invoiced value of Adjusted earnings per share is shown in comprehensive income.
Surpluses sales made to customers after deduction the notes and is stated before amortisation are recognised only to the extent that of discounts and sales taxes.
Discounts of non-operating intangibles, profits less they are recoverable.
Movements in include sales rebates, price discounts, losses on disposal of non-current assets, irrecoverable surpluses are recognised customer incentives, certain promotional profits less losses on sale and closure immediately as remeasurement in other activities and similar items.
Revenue of businesses and exceptional items comprehensive income.
does not include sales between group together with the related tax effect.
Contributions payable by the group in companies.
Revenue is recognised when Foreign currencies respect of defined contribution plans are the risks and rewards of the underlying In individual companies, transactions charged to operating profit as incurred.
products have been substantially in foreign currencies are recorded at Other unfunded post-employment transferred to the customer and when the rate of exchange at the date of the liabilities are accounted for in the same it can be measured reliably.
Monetary assets and liabilities way as defined benefit pension plans.
Revenue from the sale of goods is in foreign currencies are translated at the Share-based payments generally recognised on dispatch or rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of share awards at grant date delivery to customers, dependent Any resulting differences are taken to the is recognised as an employee expense on shipping terms.
with a corresponding increase in equity, provided for as a reduction to revenue spread over the period during which Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 F inancial statements Significant accounting policies the employees become unconditionally available-for-sale investments measured that asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains entitled to the shares.
The amount at market prices where available.
Where and losses previously recognised in the recognised is adjusted to reflect expected quoted market prices in an active market hedging reserve are recognised in the and actual levels of vesting except where are not available, and where fair value income statement at the same time as the failure to vest is as a result of not cannot be reliably measured, unquoted the hedged transaction.
equity instruments are measured at cost Hedge accounting is discontinued when less impairment.
Income tax the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Income tax on profit or loss for the period Cash and cash equivalents terminated, exercised, or no longer comprises current and deferred tax.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that Income tax is recognised in the income bank and cash balances, call deposits time, any cumulative gain or loss on statement except to the extent that it and short-term investments with the hedging instrument recognised in relates to items taken directly to other original maturities of three months or the hedging reserve is retained in the 93 comprehensive income.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable hedging reserve until the forecast on demand and form an integral part of transaction occurs.
Gains or losses Current tax is the tax expected to be the groups cash management are on hedging instruments relating to payable on taxable income for the year, included as a component of cash and an underlying exposure that no longer using tax rates enacted or substantively cash equivalents for the purpose of exists are taken to the incomestatement.
enacted during the period, together with the cash flow statement.
any adjustment to tax payable in respect Hedges of the groups net investment in of previous years.
Derivatives foreign operations principally comprise Derivatives are used to manage the borrowings in the currency of the Deferred tax is provided using the groups economic exposure to financial investments netassets.
balance sheet liability method, providing and commodity risks.
The principal for temporary differences between the The group economically hedges foreign instruments used are foreign exchange carrying amounts of assets and liabilities currency exposure on recognised and commodity contracts, futures, swaps for financial reporting purposes and the monetary assets and liabilities but does or options the hedging instrument.
amounts used for taxation purposes.
not normally seek hedge accounting The group does not use derivatives for The following temporary differences are under IAS 39.
Any derivatives that the speculative purposes.
not provided for: initial recognition of group holds to hedge this exposure are goodwill: initial recognition of assets or Derivatives are recognised in the classified as held for trading within liabilities affecting neither accounting nor balance sheet, at fair value, based on derivative assets and liabilities.
Changes taxable profit other than those acquired in market prices or rates, or calculated in the fair value of such derivatives and a business combination: and differences using either discounted cash flow or the foreign exchange gains and losses relating to investments in subsidiaries option pricing models.
arising on the related monetary items to the extent that they will probably not are recognised within operating profit.
Changes in the value of derivatives are reverse in the foreseeable future.
The recognised in the income statement Intangible assets other amount of deferred tax provided is based unless they qualify for hedge accounting, than goodwill on the expected manner of realisation when recognition of any change in fair Non-operating intangible assets are or settlement of the carrying amount value depends on the nature of the item intangible assets that arise on business of assets and liabilities, using tax rates being hedged.
combinations and typically include enacted or substantively enacted at the technology, brands, customer balance sheet date.
The purpose of hedge accounting is relationships and grower agreements.
to mitigate the impact on the groups A deferred tax asset is recognised only Operating intangible assets are acquired income statement of changes in foreign to the extent that it is probable that future in the ordinary course of business and exchange or interest rates and commodity taxable profits will be available against typically include computer software, land prices, by matching the impact of the which the asset can be utilised.
use rights and emissions trading licences.
hedged risk and the hedging instrument Additional income taxes that arise from in the income statement.
Intangible assets other than goodwill the distribution of dividends are are stated at cost less accumulated Changes in the value of derivatives recognised at the same time as the amortisation and impairment charges.
used as hedges of future cash flows are liability to pay the related dividend.
recognised through other comprehensive Amortisation is charged to the income Financial assets and liabilities income in the hedging reserve, with statement on a straight-line basis over Financial assets and financial liabilities, any ineffective portion recognised the estimated useful lives of intangible except for other non-current investments immediately within operating profit in assets from the date they are available and derivatives, are measured initially the income statement.
The estimated useful lives are atfair value, plus directly attributable generally deemed to be no longer than: When the future cash flow results in the transaction costs, and thereafter at recognition of a non-financial asset or Technology and brands up to 15 years amortised cost.
Other non-current liability, the gains and losses previously Customer relationships up to 5 years investments classified under other recognised in the hedging reserve are Grower agreements up to 10 years non-current receivables comprise included in the initial measurement of Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 F inancial statements Significant accounting policies SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2014 Goodwill determined for the CGU to which the leases.
Payments made under operating Goodwill is defined under Business asset belongs.
leases are recognised in the income combinations on pages 91 and92.
statement on a straight-line basis over Reversals of impairment Certain commercial assets associated the term of the lease, as is the benefit An impairment charge in respect of with the acquisition of a business are of lease incentives.
goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
not capable of being recognised in the For other assets, an impairment charge Where the group is a lessor under an acquisition balance sheet.
In such is reversed if there has been a change operating lease, the asset is capitalised circumstances, goodwill is recognised, in the estimates used to determine the within property, plant and equipment and which may include, but is not necessarily recoverable amount, but only to the depreciated over its useful economic life.
limited to, workforce assets and the extent that the new carrying amount Payments received under operating benefits of expected future synergies.
does not exceed the carrying amount leases are recognised in the income Goodwill is not amortised but is subject that would have been determined, net statement on a straight-line basis over 94 to an annual impairment review.
of depreciation or amortisation, if no the term of the lease.
impairment charge had been recognised.
Research and development Biological assets Research expenditure is expensed as Property, plant and equipment Biological assets are measured at fair incurred.
Development expenditure is Items of property, plant and equipment value less costs to sell.
Cane roots and capitalised if the product or process is are stated at cost less accumulated growing cane are stated at fair value on technically and commercially feasible depreciation and impairment charges.
the following bases: but is otherwise expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is charged to the income Cane roots escalated average cost, Capitalised development expenditure statement on a straight-line basis over using appropriate inflation-related indices, is stated at cost less accumulated the estimated useful lives of items of of each year of planting adjusted for amortisation and impairment charges.
property, plant and equipment sufficient remaining expected life, currently ten Impairment to reduce them to estimated residual years in South Africa, nine years in The carrying amounts of the groups value.
Estimated Swaziland, seven years in Zambia and intangible assets and property, plant and useful lives are generally deemed to be eight yearselsewhere.
equipment are reviewed at each balance no longer than: Growing cane estimated sucrose sheet date to determine whether there is Freehold buildings 66 years content valued at estimated sucrose price any indication of impairment.
If any such Plant and equipment, fixtures for the following season, less estimated indication exists, the assets recoverable and fittings costs for harvesting and transport.
For goodwill and sugar factories, yeast plants, intangibles without a finite life, the When harvested, growing cane is mills and bakeries 20 years recoverable amount is estimated at transferred to inventory at fair value other operations 12 years each balance sheet date.
Vehicles 10 years An impairment charge is recognised The fair value of cane roots and growing Leases in the income statement whenever cane is determined using inputs that are A lease is an agreement whereby the the carrying amount of an asset or its unobservable, using the best information lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for cash-generating unit CGU exceeds available in the circumstances for using a payment or a series of payments, the its recoverable amount.
the cane roots and the growing cane, right to use a specific asset for an agreed and therefore fall into the level 3 fair period of time.
Impairment charges recognised in respect value category.
of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the Where the group is a lessee and has carrying amount of any goodwill allocated Inventories substantially all the risks and rewards of to that CGU and then to reduce the Inventories are stated at the lower of ownership of an asset, the arrangement carrying amount of the other assets cost and net realisable value.
Cost is considered a finance lease.
Finance in the unit on a pro ratabasis.
includes raw materials, direct labour and leases are recognised as assets of the expenses and an appropriate proportion group within property, plant and Calculation of recoverable amount of production and other overheads, equipment at the inception of the lease The recoverable amount of assets is the calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
at the lower of fair value and the present greater of their fair value less costs to sell value of the minimum lease payments.
In assessing value Inventories for Primark are valued at Depreciation on leased assets is charged in use, the estimated future cash flows the lower of cost and net realisable value to the income statement on the same are discounted to their present value using the retail method, calculated on basis as owned assets.
Payments made using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the basis of selling price less appropriate under finance leases are apportioned current market assessments of the time trading margin.
All Primark inventories between capital repayments and interest value of money and the risks specific to are finished goods.
expense charged to the income the asset.
For an asset that does not statement.
Other leases where the group generate largely independent cash is a lessee are treated as operating inflows, the recoverable amount is Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 F inancial statements Significant accounting policies New accounting policies Certain elements of Annual The revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits Improvements to IFRSs 20092011: is applied for the first time in 2014 and Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial makes changes to measurement and Instruments: Disclosures: and disclosure requirements for defined benefit post-employment arrangements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The expected return on plan assets and effective prospectively from the the interest charge on scheme liabilities 2014 financial year.
have been replaced by net interest The group is also assessing the impact expense or income calculated by of the following revised standards and applying the liability discount rate to the interpretations or amendments that net pension asset or liability.
Scheme are not yet effective.
Where already 95 administration costs are expensed as endorsed by the EU, these changes will incurred and the reserve for scheme be adopted on the effective dates noted.
expenses, which was previously Where not yet endorsed by the EU, the included in scheme liabilities, has adoption date is less certain.
IAS 19 service cost is of these standards is currently under charged to operating profit and pension review all effective from 14 September financing costs are charged to other 2014 unless otherwise stated : financial expense.
Certain elements of Annual The new standard is applied for the first Improvements to IFRSs 20102012, time in the 2014 financial year, but with 20112013 and 20122014 effective retrospective effect from the 2012 2017 financial year : balance sheet date.
The impact of all changes is reflected in retained earnings IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: in equity and is wholly attributable to Classification and Measurement equity shareholders.
effective 2019 financial year not yet endorsed by the EU : The 95m net pension liability in the 2012 balance sheet has been replaced by IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial a net liability of 67m, and net deferred Statements effective 2015 financial tax liabilities of 177m increased by 7m year: to 184m.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective In 2013, the impact was an increase of 2015 financial year: 5m in service cost and an increase of IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in 3m in net pension finance costs.
The Other Entities effective 2015 financial taxation charge decreased by 2m.
year: Remeasurements in 2013 of 24m have been replaced with remeasurements of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 33m and the deferred tax associated Customers effective 2018 financial with remeasurements of defined benefit year not yet endorsed by the EU : schemes increased by 2m, from 5m Amendments to IAS 16 Property, to 7m.
The 44m net pension liability Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 in the 2013 balance sheet has been Agriculture effective 2017 financial replaced by a net liability of 15m, and year, which changes the accounting net deferred tax liabilities of 151m requirements for bearer plants cane increased by 7m to 158m.
roots, in the case of the group not 2013 basic earnings per share decreased yet endorsed by the EU : and 0.8p from 74.8p to 74.0p, and adjusted IAS 28 Investments in Associates earnings per share decreased 0.8p from and Joint Ventures effective 2015 98.9p to 98.1p.
The group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations with no material impact all effective from 15 September 2013 : Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
