67 NOTES TO THE SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE TABLE ANNUAL BONUS As outlined in the Chairmans letter, in light of the near term impact of the strategic plan.
The Committee applied this process in its assessment recent challenging oil price environment on the Companys shareholders, of 2014 performance to determine bonus awards on the weighted the Committee determined that no cash bonus would be awarded for performance measures, and a summary of the relative achievement 2014.
The Committee determined that 100% of any bonus should be compared to the performance range is set out in the diagram below.
deferred into SOCO shares vesting after two years.
In the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee set out specific areas of emphasis in setting The weightings resulted in an award at 80% of maximum for each Director.
stretching performance measures for 2014, noting each objective is ranked The Groups safety performance in the year was excellent, and did not result against a scale of expectations.
It was stated that the amount of bonus in a deduction to the above calculation.
The Committee was satisfied with paid out would consider the relative importance of the achievements and the results of the assessment, on the basis of delivery entirely as mandatory the actual contribution of these towards furthering the Companys deferred shares under the terms of the deferred share bonus plan.
THRESHOLD TARGET MAXIMUM 0% payout 50% payout 100% payout Vietnam Programme Objectives 70% weighting The TGT drilling programme remained on track with eight wells drilled in 2014.
The H5 development received project sanctioning and all additional approvals required to fast track the programme.
Construction was completed and platform installation commenced ahead of schedule.
Drilling commenced and all related development works required to meet the first oil schedule remained on target or ahead of schedule.
Testing of FPSO oil throughput capacity was delayed.
However, testing of the total liquids handling capacity was accelerated successfully with modifications identified to increase capacity.
An independent third-party completed an extensive study and analysis demonstrating TGTs full potential.
While less material, due to unexpected geological problems a successful completion of an additional CNV well has been deferred.
Weighted Assessment: 56% Portfolio Objectives 10% weighting A successful exploration well was drilled on Marine XI which significantly exceeded pre-test expectations and appears to suggest an extension of a field discovered on a contiguous block.
A non-invasive seismic survey was successively completed over a portion of Lake Edward in Block V with no operational lost time injuries, and related commitments to conduct environmental studies and social projects were fulfilled.
However, there is no value for this project built into the share price, and the Committee determined to treat these objectives as unfulfilled for the purpose of determining bonus payout, resulting in a discretionary downward adjustment.
While exploration projects and other initiatives were progressed on target, adjustments to targets were initiated to ensure they remain appropriate in the current oil price environment.
Weighted Assessment: 4% Corporate Objectives 20% weighting Corporate initiatives have progressed on target.
The strategy was delivered with a second material cash return to shareholders, representing 60% of free cash flow thereby exceeding the targeted 50%, while maintaining a strong balance sheet ending the year with no debt and over $166 million of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments.
The executive team was strengthened and refreshed through the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer who has excellent credentials and is well respected in the sector.
Weighted Assessment: 20% | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
