81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 01 GENERAL INFORMATION SOCO International plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on inside back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Review of Operations and Financial Review on pages 14 to 23 and 24 to 28, respectively.
02 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with, and comply with, IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared on a going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 50 and in the Financial Review on page 28.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the valuation of hydrocarbon inventory and the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars as it is the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiary undertakings and is generally accepted practice in the oil and gas sector.
The functional currency of the Company remains GB pounds although its financial statements are presented in US dollars to be consistent with the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Adoption of new and revised accounting standards At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following IFRS, IAS, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 2, 3, 8 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle IFRS 1, 3, 13 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle scope exception for joint ventures IFRS 5, 7 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 16, 38 amended Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 16, 24, 38 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle IAS 19, 34 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates IAS 40 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle scope exception for joint ventures The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except potentially as follows: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
d Investments Non-current investments in subsidiaries of the Company are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Liquid investments comprise short term liquid investments of between three to six months maturity.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 02 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED e Interests in joint ventures A joint arrangement or joint venture is an arrangement where two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint arrangements where the Group has the rights to assets, and obligations for liabilities of the arrangement are classified as joint operations and are accounted for by recognising the Groups share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Joint arrangements where the Group has the rights to the net assets of the arrangement are classified as joint ventures and are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
f Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and no depreciation is charged from the point of reclassification.
Liabilities associated with such assets are also classified separately, within current liabilities.
g Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the Groups share of oil and gas sold during the year on an entitlement basis and is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transfered to the buyer.
To the extent revenue arises from test production during an evaluation programme, an amount is charged from evaluation costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Investment revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
h Tangible and intangible non-current assets Oil and gas exploration, evaluation and development expenditure All expenditures incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration, evaluation and development of oil and gas assets, including directly attributable overheads, interest payable and certain exchange differences if directly related to financing development projects, are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
Cost pools are established on the basis of geographical area having regard to the operational and financial organisation of the Group.
Intangible acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs incurred in a geographical area where the Group has no established cost pool are initially capitalised as intangible non-current assets except where they fall outside the scope of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources whereby they are expensed as incurred subject to other guidance under IFRS.
Tangible non-current assets used in acquisition, exploration and evaluation are classified with tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
To the extent that such tangible assets are consumed in exploration and evaluation the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Upon successful conclusion of the appraisal programme and determination that commercial reserves exist, such costs are transferred to tangible non-current assets as property, plant and equipment.
Exploration and evaluation costs carried forward are assessed for impairment as described below.
Proceeds from the disposal of oil and gas assets are credited against the relevant cost centre.
Any overall surplus arising in a cost centre is credited to the income statement.
Depreciation and depletion Depletion is provided on oil and gas assets in production using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves, applied to the sum of the total capitalised exploration, evaluation and development costs, together with estimated future development costs at current prices.
Oil and gas assets which have a similar economic life are aggregated for depreciation purposes.
Impairment of value Where there has been a change in economic conditions or in the expected use of a tangible non-current asset that indicates a possible impairment in an asset, management tests the recoverability of the net book value of the asset by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil prices and future costs.
Any identified impairment is charged to the income statement.
Intangible non-current assets are considered for impairment at least annually by reference to the indicators in IFRS 6.
Where there is an indication of impairment of an exploration and evaluation asset which is within a geographic pool where the Group has tangible oil and gas assets with commercial reserves, the exploration asset is assessed for impairment together with all other cash generating units and related tangible and intangible assets in that geographic pool and any balance remaining after impairment is amortised over the proven and probable reserves of the pool.
Where the exploration asset is in an area where the Group has no established pool, the exploration asset is tested for impairment separately and, where determined to be impaired, is written off.
Other tangible non-current assets Other tangible non-current assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost of those assets, less residual value, over their expected useful lives of three to seven years.
Decommissioning The decommissioning provision is calculated as the net present value of the Groups share of the expenditure which is expected to be incurred at the end of the producing life of each field in the removal and decommissioning of the production, storage and transportation facilities currently in place.
The cost of recognising the decommissioning provision is included as part of the cost of the relevant property, plant and equipment and is thus charged to the income statement on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups policy for depletion and depreciation of tangible non-current assets.
Period charges for changes in the net present value of the decommissioning provision arising from discounting are included in finance costs.
83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 02 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Changes in estimates The effects of changes in estimates on the unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively, from the date of adoption of the revised estimates, over the estimated remaining proven and probable reserves.
j Inventories Inventories, except for inventories of hydrocarbons, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Physical inventories of hydrocarbons are valued at net realisable value in line with well established industry practice.
Underlifts and overlifts are valued at market value and are included in prepayments and accrued income and accruals and deferred income, respectively.
Changes in hydrocarbon inventories, underlifts and overlifts are adjusted through cost of sales.
k Leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
l Share-based payments Equity-settled awards under share-based incentive plans are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the performance period along with a corresponding increase in equity.
Fair value is measured using an option pricing model taking into consideration managements best estimate of the expected life of the option and the estimated number of shares that will eventually vest.
m Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to recover the asset.
Deferred tax is not recognised where an asset or liability is acquired in a transaction which is not a business combination for an amount which differs from its tax value.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
n Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group does not currently utilise derivative financial instruments.
There are no material financial assets and liabilities for which differences between carrying amounts and fair values are required to be disclosed.
The classification of financial instruments as required by IFRS 7 is disclosed in Notes 17, 21 and 22.
Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Where a financial instrument is classified as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss it is initially recognised at fair value.
At each balance sheet date the fair value is reviewed and any gain or loss arising is recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the net present value of the financial asset arising from discounting are included in other gains and losses.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are generally stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables Trade payables are generally stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments repurchased are deducted from equity at cost.
o Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are stated in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, or if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Any resulting gains and losses are included in net profit or loss for the period.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
