81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 01 GENERAL INFORMATION SOCO International plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given on inside back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Review of Operations and Financial Review on pages 14 to 23 and 24 to 28, respectively.
02 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with, and comply with, IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared on a going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 50 and in the Financial Review on page 28.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the valuation of hydrocarbon inventory and the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars as it is the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiary undertakings and is generally accepted practice in the oil and gas sector.
The functional currency of the Company remains GB pounds although its financial statements are presented in US dollars to be consistent with the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
b Adoption of new and revised accounting standards At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following IFRS, IAS, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 2, 3, 8 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle IFRS 1, 3, 13 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle scope exception for joint ventures IFRS 5, 7 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 16, 38 amended Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 16, 24, 38 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2010-2012 Cycle IAS 19, 34 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2012-2014 Cycle IAS 19 amended Employee Benefits IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates IAS 40 Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements 2011-2013 Cycle scope exception for joint ventures The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except potentially as follows: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
d Investments Non-current investments in subsidiaries of the Company are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Liquid investments comprise short term liquid investments of between three to six months maturity.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
