FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 02 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED o Foreign currencies continued For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and results of entities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are dealt with through equity and transferred to the Groups retained earnings reserve.
p Pension costs The contributions payable in the year in respect of pension costs for defined contribution schemes and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
03 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing financial risks that may affect the Group.
In certain cases the Board delegates responsibility for such reviews and policy setting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed in the Risk Management Report on pages 29 to 33.
04 CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES a Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2, management has made judgements that may have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
These are discussed below: Oil and gas assets Note 2 h describes the judgements necessary to implement the Groups policy with respect to the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Management considers these assets for impairment at least annually with reference to indicators in IFRS 6.
Note 14 discloses the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Further, Note 2 h describes the Groups policy regarding re-classification of intangible assets to tangible assets.
Management considers the appropriateness of asset classification at least annually.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, other than those mentioned above, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Oil and gas reserves and DD&A Note 2 h sets out the Groups accounting policy on DD&A.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques and are disclosed on page 100.
The estimate is reviewed at least twice a year and is regularly reviewed by external consultants.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
As discussed in the Review of Operations on page 15, the TGT and CNV proved and probable reserves estimates have been revised based on ongoing work of ERCE in respect of TGT and by internal experts working collaboratively with the JOC in respect of CNV.
DD&A on both assets will increase on a per barrel basis to reflect the revised production and expenditure profiles from 2015.
Reserves estimates are inherently uncertain, especially in the early stages of a fields life, and are routinely revised over the producing lives of oil and gas fields as new information becomes available and as economic conditions evolve.
Such revisions may impact the Groups future financial position and results, in particular, in relation to DD&A and impairment testing of oil and gas property plant and equipment.
Impairment of producing oil and gas assets If impairment indicators are identified in relation to a producing oil and gas field, management is required to compare the net carrying value of the assets and liabilities which represent the field cash generating unit with the estimated recoverable amount of the field.
Management generally determines the recoverable amount of the field by estimating its fair value less costs of disposal, using a discounted cash flow method.
Calculating the net present value of the discounted cash flows involves key assumptions which include oil and gas prices, reserves estimates and production profiles, future operating and capital expenditures, discount rates and other assumptions.
Further information relating to the specific assumptions and uncertainties relevant to impairment tests performed in the year are discussed in Note 15.
Financial asset Note 2 n describes the accounting policy with respect to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The key estimates that are used in calculating the fair value of the Groups financial asset arising on the disposal of its Mongolia interest are described in Note 17 and are reviewed at least annually.
The only market risk assumption that has a significant impact on the fair value of this asset is the discount rate, as described in the Risk Management Report on page 33.
Decommissioning provision The accounting policy for decommissioning is discussed in Note 2 h. The cost of decommissioning is estimated by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Further details are provided in Note 23.
