Additional Information Glossary Market definitions Region Country US US Europe Albania Cyprus Germany Kazakhstan Poland Sweden Austria Czech Republic Greece Latvia Portugal Switzerland Belarus Denmark Hungary Lithuania Romania UK Serbia and Belgium Estonia Iceland Luxembourg Montenegro Ukraine Bosnia and Herzegovina Finland Ireland Malta Slovakia Bulgaria France Israel Netherlands Slovenia Croatia Georgia Italy Norway Spain Established ROW Australia Japan Canada New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Colombia Indonesia Netherlands Antilles Saudi Arabia Turkey Argentina Costa Rica Iran Nicaragua Singapore United Arab Emirates Aruba Cuba Iraq Oman South Africa Uruguay Bahamas Dominican Republic Jamaica Other Africa South Korea Venezuela Bahrain Ecuador Jordan Pakistan Sri Lanka Vietnam Barbados Egypt Kuwait Palestine Sudan Yemen Belize El Salvador Lebanon Panama Syria Bermuda Guatemala Libya Peru Taiwan Brazil Honduras Malaysia Philippines Thailand Chile Hong Kong Mexico Qatar Trinidad and Tobago China India Morocco Russia Tunisia IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2014 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2014 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand.
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 239 Additional Information Glossary continued The following abbreviations and expressions CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the HHA Healthy Heart Africa programme.
have the following meanings when used in this Company.
Annual Report: CER constant exchange rates.
IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. CFDA China Food and Drug Administration.
ACA Affordable Care Act the Patient CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the IAS 19 IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Protection and Affordable Care Act which was Company.
signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Presentation.
Act which was signed into law on 30 March 2010.
Code of Conduct the Groups Code of IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Conduct.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca Actavis Actavis Plc.
IASB International Accounting Standards PLC formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
ADC Therapeutics ADC Therapeutics Srl.
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
IFRS International Financial Reporting ADR an American Depositary Receipt Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA the Standards or International Financial Reporting evidencing title to an ADS.
agreement described in the US Corporate Standard, as the context requires.
ADS an American Depositary Share Integrity Agreement reporting section on page 61.
representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
IMED Innovative Medicines and Early Advaxis Advaxis, Inc. CVMD Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases.
AGM an Annual General Meeting of the CV cardiovascular.
Aegerion Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Director a director of the Company.
Almirall Almirall, S. A. DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
Amgen Amgen, Inc. earnings per share EPS profit for the year IT information technology.
Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. after tax and non-controlling interests, divided by Janssen Janssen Research & Development, Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC formerly the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares LLC.
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. in issue during the year.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, EC European Commission.
which is a marketing approval application for a Krona, Kronor or SEK references to the EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin EMA European Medicines Agency.
Co. Ltd. EPO European Patent Office.
LCM projects significant life-cycle EVP Executive Vice-President.
management projects as determined by potential Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. revenue generation, or line extensions.
Articles the Articles of Association of the Lean means enhancing value for customers Company.
Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, Lilly Eli Lilly and Company.
which is part of the US Department of Health and Astra Astra AB, being the company with Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory LTI long-term incentive, in the context of share whom the Company merged in 1999. authority for all pharmaceuticals including plan remuneration arrangements.
AstraZeneca the Company and its biologics and vaccines and medical devices in MAA a marketing authorisation application, subsidiaries.
which is an application for authorisation to place AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. medical products on the market.
This is a specific BACE beta secretase clearing enzyme.
term used in the EU and European Economic Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
biologic s a class of drugs that are produced GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting in living cells.
MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is Principles.
specific, that is, it binds to and attacks one biosimilars a copy of a biologic that GMD Global Medicines Development.
is sufficiently similar to meet regulatory GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
major market US, EU, Japan and China.
gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by BLA Biologics License Application.
which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly by dividing the difference between the two by the MedImmune, Inc.. Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. formerly Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
Merck & Co. Inc.. GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc.
240 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information Moderna Therapeutics Moderna and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess SGLT-2 sodium-glucose co-transporter 2.
Therapeutics, Inc. safety and efficacy.
Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. NDA a new drug application to the FDA for Phase III the phase of clinical research which SLE systemic lupus erythematosus.
approval to market a new medicine in the US.
is performed to gather additional information SPC supplementary protection certificate.
about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often NME new molecular entity.
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall specialty care specific healthcare provided Novartis Novartis Pharma AG.
benefit risk profile of the drug.
Phase III studies by medical specialists who do not generally have usually include between several hundred and NSAID a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer.
NSTE-ACS non-ST-Elevation acute coronary Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices syndromes.
TSR total shareholder return, being the total Agency of Japan.
NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
return on a share over a period of time, including pMDI pressurised metered-dose inhaler.
pound sterling, GBP, pence or p UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. references to the currency of the UK.
operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less Pozen POZEN, Inc. UK Corporate Governance Code the UK operating costs, plus operating income.
Corporate Governance Code published by the primary care general healthcare provided by Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 physicians who ordinarily have first contact with each in the share capital of the Company.
that sets out standards of good practice in patients and who may have continuing care for corporate governance for the UK.
orphan drug a drug which has been approved for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an US United States of America.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a orphan indication and has been rewarded with a candidate drug results in a clinical change on an US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the period of market exclusivity: the period of acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with currency of the US.
exclusivity and the available orphan indications the disease.
WHO World Health Organization, the United PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
Nations specialised agency for health.
PTE Patent Term Extension, an extension YHP Young Health Programme.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month of up to five years in the term of a US patent period of exclusivity to market a drug which is relating to a drug which compensates for delays awarded by the FDA in return for certain in marketing resulting from the need to obtain paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
The analogous right in the EU six-month period runs from the date of relevant is an SPC.
Analogous provisions are available Qiagen Qiagen Manchester Limited.
in certain other territories such as European Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC R&D research and development.
Redeemable Preference Share a PD-L1 an anti-programmed death-ligand 1. redeemable preference share of 1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. Regulatory Data Protection RDP see the Pfizer Pfizer, Inc.
Intellectual Property section from page 68.
Pharmacyclics Pharmacyclics, Inc. Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights Phase I the phase of clinical research where arising from generation of clinical data and a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can Exclusivity and orphan drug status.
achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, Roche F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Phase II the phase of clinical research Act of 2002. which includes the controlled clinical activities SEC the US Securities and Exchange conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the Commission, the governmental agency that drug in patients with the disease under study and regulates the US securities industry and stock to begin to determine the safety profile of the markets.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in small or medium sized groups of patients and Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend SET Senior Executive Team.
to be designed to assess dosing requirements, SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 241
