Additional Information Additional Information Patent Expiries Patent expiries for our key marketed products Our patents are or may be challenged by third parties.
Generic products may be launched at risk and our patents may be revoked, circumvented or found not to be infringed.
For more information, please see Risk from page 203.
Many of our products are subject to challenges by third parties.
Details of material challenges by third parties can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
The expiry dates shown below include any granted SPC PTE and or Paediatric Exclusivity periods.
In Europe, the exact SPC situation may vary by country as different Patent Offices may grant SPC at different rates.
A number of our products are subject to generic competition in one or more markets.
Further information can be found in the Geographical Review from page 220.
2 A s ettlement agreement permits Watson Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis, Inc together, Watson to begin selling its generic version of Crestor and its rosuvastatin zinc product beginning 2 May 2016.
3 Komboglyze Kombiglyze XR revenue is included in the Onglyza revenue figure.
4 L icence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. and other generic companies allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval.
5 A l icence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing sale in the US of a generic version from December 2009.
The 2018 expiry relates to the Flexhaler device, while the 2019 expiry relates to the formulation in the Flexhaler presentation and also to Respules.
6 L icence agreements with various generics companies allow launches of generic versions of Seroquel XR in the US from 1 November 2016 or earlier upon certain circumstances, subject to regulatory approval.
7 Aggregate revenue for China, the EU and Japan.
8 Expiry in major EU markets.
10 There is eight years data exclusivity and two years market exclusivity for Byetta and Bydureon to 2016.
11 AstraZeneca acquired the rights to Eklira Genuair effective 1 November 2014.
There is eight years data exclusivity and two years market exclusivity for Iressa in the EU to June 2019.
13 The 2018 expiry relates to the formulation in the Turbuhaler presentation and also to Respules.
202 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
