At 31 December 2014, the Company had becoming effective, all issued and unissued the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, 100,371 registered holders of 1,263,143,338 Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum for cash.
There were 104,555 arising as a result of the share cancellation holders of Ordinary Shares held under the credited to a special reserve, which was Since April 1999, following the merger of Euroclear Services Agreement, representing converted into US dollars at the rate of Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for 11.6% of the issued share capital of the exchange prevailing on the record date.
This trading in the shares of the Company are Company and approximately 249,000 US dollar reserve was then applied in paying the London Stock Exchange LSE, the holders of ADRs, representing 9.6% of the up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
Stockholm Stock Exchange SSE and issued share capital of the Company.
The table opposite sets out, for ADR is equivalent to one Ordinary Share.
At the same time as the US dollar shares 2013 and 2014, the reported high and low With effect from 6 February 2015, Citibank were issued, the Company issued 50,000 share prices of the Company, on the N. A. Citibank succeeded JPMorgan Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, at following bases Chase Bank JPMorgan as depositary par.
The Redeemable Preference Shares of the ADRs.
carry limited class voting rights, no dividend for shares listed on the LSE, the reported rights and are capable of redemption, at par, high and low middle market closing In 1999, in connection with the merger at the option of the Company on the giving quotations are derived from the Daily between Astra and Zeneca through which of seven days written notice to the Official List the Company was formed, the Companys registered holder of the Redeemable for shares listed on the SSE, the high and share capital was redenominated in US Preference Shares.
low closing sales prices are as stated in dollars.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares the Official List were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, A total of 826million Ordinary Shares were for ADSs listed on the NYSE, the reported credited as fully paid on the basis of one issued to Astra shareholders who accepted high and low sales prices are as reported dollar share for each Zeneca share then the merger offer before the final closing by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
This was achieved by a reduction of date, 21May 1999.
The Company received capital under section 135 of the Companies acceptances from Astra shareholders Act 1985.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Date of Percentage of Number of disclosure to issued share 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company capital BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.99 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.08 1 S ince the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase on the cancellation of shares following a repurchase of shares under the Companys share repurchase programme or decrease on the issue of new shares under any of the Companys share plans.
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 2 February 27 January Shareholder 2015 2014 2013 2012 BlackRock, Inc. 7.99 8.01 8.08 7.87 Investor AB 4.08 4.09 4.13 4.02 Invesco Limited 5.00 5.78 5.83 5.67 Axa SA 3.00 4.52 4.57 4.44 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00 3.00 4.62 4.50 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.00 3.01 3.00 3.00 ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by JPMorgan, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE.
At 31 January 2015, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 9.57% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2015: In the US: 717 Total: 100,075 Number of record holders of ADRs at 31 January 2015: In the US: 1,886 Total: 1,912 So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 233 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued At 31 January 2015, the total amount of the Future dividends will normally be paid as Results Companys voting securities owned by follows: Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca in Directors and officers of the Company was: respect of the first three months of 2015 will First interim: Announced in July August be published on 24 April 2015 and results in Amount Percentage and paid in September.
respect of the first six months of 2015 will be Title of class owned of class published on 30 July 2015.
Ordinary Shares 630,127 0.05 Second interim: Announced in January February and paid in March.
Documents on display Related party transactions The Articles and other documents During the period 1 January 2015 to 31 Shareview concerning the Company which are referred January 2015, there were no transactions, The Companys shareholders with to in this Annual Report may be inspected loans, or proposed transactions between internet access may visit the website, at the Companys registered office at the Company and any related parties which www.
co. uk, and register their 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
were material to either the Company or the details to create a portfolio.
Shareview is related party, or which were unusual in their a free and secure online service from the Taxation for US persons nature or conditions see also Note 29 to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, which The following summary of material UK and Financial Statements on page 188. gives access to shareholdings, including US federal income tax consequences of balance movements, indicative share prices ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs held Options to purchase securities from and information about recent dividends.
as capital assets by the US resident holders registrant or subsidiaries described below is based on current UK a At 31 January 2015, options outstanding ShareGift and US federal income tax law, including the to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: The Company welcomes and values all US UK double taxation convention relating of its shareholders, no matter how many to income and capital gains, which Subscription Normal Number of shares price pence expiry date or how few shares they own.
However, entered into force on 31 March 2003 4,239,761 1882 3599 2015 2020 shareholders who have only a small number the Convention.
This summary does not of shares whose value makes it uneconomic describe all of the tax consequences that to sell them, either now or at some stage in may be relevant in light of the US resident The weighted average subscription price of the future, may wish to consider donating holders particular circumstances and tax options outstanding at 31 January 2015 was them to charity through ShareGift, an consequences applicable to US resident 2595 pence.
All options were granted under independent charity share donation holders subject to special rules such as Company employee share schemes.
One feature of the scheme is that certain financial institutions, entities treated there is no gain or loss for UK capital gains as partnerships for US federal income tax b Included in paragraph a are options tax purposes on gifts of shares through purposes, persons whose functional granted to officers of the Company ShareGift, and it may now also be possible currency for US federal income tax as follows: to obtain UK income tax relief on the purposes is not the US dollar, tax-exempt Subscription Normal donation.
Further information about entities, persons subject to alternative Number of shares price pence expiry date ShareGift can be found on its website, minimum tax, persons subject to the 90,499 2280 3599 2016 2020 www.
org, or by contacting Medicare contribution tax on net ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 investment income, or persons holding c At 31 January 2015, none of the Directors Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection with of the Company held options to subscribe ShareGift is administered by The Orr a trade or business conducted outside of for Ordinary Shares.
Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity the US.
US resident holders are urged to number 1052686.
More information about consult their tax advisers regarding the During the period 1 January 2015 to the UK tax position on gifts of shares UK and US federal income tax 31 January 2015, no Director exercised to ShareGift can be obtained from consequences of the ownership and any options.
HM Revenue & Customs on its website, disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs www.
Dividend payments For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and The Unclaimed Assets Register This summary is based in part on the SSE, the record date for the second The Company supplies unclaimed dividend representations of JPMorgan and Citibank interim dividend for 2014, payable on 23 data to the Unclaimed Assets Register as depositaries for ADRs and assumes that March 2015, is 20 February 2015 and the UAR, which provides investors who have each obligation in the deposit agreement ex-dividend date is 19 February 2015.
For lost track of shareholdings with an among the Company and the depositaries ADRs listed on the NYSE, the record date is opportunity to search the UARs database and the holders from time to time of 20 February 2015 and the ex-dividend date of unclaimed financial assets on payment of ADRs and any related agreements will be is 18 February 2015. a small fixed fee.
The UAR donates part of performed in accordance with its terms.
The the search fee to charity.
The UAR can be US Treasury has expressed concerns that The record date for the first interim dividend contacted on 0870 241 1713 or at PO Box parties to whom American depositary for 2015, payable on 14 September 2015, is 9501, Nottingham NG80 1WD.
shares are released before shares are 14 August 2015.
234 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Additional Information delivered to the depositary pre-release, rate of the relevant foreign currency on Passive Foreign Investment Company or intermediaries in the chain of ownership the date the dividend is received by the US PFIC rules between holders and the issuer of the resident holders, regardless of whether the We believe that we were not a PFIC for US security underlying the American depositary dividend is converted into US dollars, and federal income tax purposes for the year shares, may be taking actions that are it will not be eligible for the dividends ended 31 December 2014.
However, since inconsistent with the claiming, by US received deduction generally available to US PFIC status depends on the composition holders of American depositary shares, corporations.
If the dividend is converted of our income and assets, and the market of foreign tax credits for US federal income into US dollars on the date of receipt, US value of our assets including, among tax purposes.
Such actions would also be resident holders of Ordinary Shares others, less than 25% owned equity inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced generally should not be required to investments, from time to time, there can be tax rates, described below, applicable to recognise foreign currency gains or losses no assurance that we will not be considered dividends received by certain non-corporate in respect of the dividend income.
They may a PFIC for any taxable year.
If we were US resident holders.
Accordingly, the have foreign currency gain or loss taxable treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during availability of the reduced tax rates for at the rates applicable to ordinary income which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were held, dividends received by certain non-corporate if the amount of such dividend is converted certain adverse tax consequences could US resident holders could be affected by into US dollars after the date of its receipt.
apply to US resident holders.
actions that may be taken by parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
Subject to applicable limitations and the Information reporting and backup discussion above regarding concerns withholding For the purposes of this summary, the term expressed by the US Treasury, dividends Payments of dividends and sales proceeds US resident holder means a beneficial received by certain non-corporate US that are made within the US or through owner of Ordinary Shares or ADRs that resident holders of Ordinary Shares or certain US-related financial intermediaries is, for US federal income tax purposes, a ADRs may be taxable at favourable US may be subject to information reporting citizen or resident of the US, a corporation federal income tax rates.
US resident and backup withholding, unless: i the US or other entity taxable as a corporation holders should consult their own tax resident holder is a corporation or other created or organised in or under the laws of advisers to determine whether they are exempt recipient: or ii in the case of backup the US, any state in the US or the District of subject to any special rules which may withholding, the US resident holder provides Columbia, or an estate or trust, the income limit their ability to be taxed at these a correct taxpayer identification number of which is subject to US federal income favourable rates.
and certifies that it is not subject to backup taxation regardless of its source.
The amount of any backup Taxation on capital gains withholding from a payment to a US This summary assumes that we are not, Under present English law, individuals who resident holder will be allowed as a credit and will not become, a passive foreign are neither resident nor ordinarily resident against the holders US federal income investment company, as discussed below.
in the UK, and companies which are not tax liability and may entitle the holder resident in the UK, will not be liable for UK to a refund, provided that the required UK and US income taxation of tax on capital gains made on the disposal information is timely supplied to the US dividends of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless Internal Revenue Service IRS.
The UK does not currently impose a such Ordinary Shares or ADRs are held withholding tax on dividends paid by in connection with a trade, profession Certain US resident holders who are a UK company, such as the Company.
or vocation carried on in the UK through individuals and under proposed US a branch or agency or other permanent Treasury regulations, certain entities, may For US federal income tax purposes, establishment.
be required to report information relating distributions paid by the Company to a US to securities issued by non-US persons resident holder are included in gross income A US resident holder will generally recognise or foreign accounts through which the as foreign source ordinary dividend income US source capital gains or losses for US securities are held, generally on IRS Form to the extent paid out of the Companys federal income tax purposes on the sale or 8938, subject to certain exceptions current or accumulated earnings and profits, exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an including an exception for securities held calculated in accordance with US federal amount equal to the difference between the in accounts maintained by US financial income tax principles.
The Company does US dollar amount realised and such holders institutions.
US resident holders should not maintain calculations of its earnings US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or consult their tax advisers regarding their and profits under US federal income tax ADRs.
US resident holders should consult reporting obligations with respect to the principles and so it is expected that their own tax advisers about the treatment Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
distributions generally will be reported to US of capital gains, which may be taxed at resident holders as dividends.
The amount lower rates than ordinary income for UK inheritance tax of the dividend will be the US dollar amount non-corporate US resident holders and Under the current Double Taxation Estates received by the depositary for US resident capital losses, the deductibility of which Convention the Estate Tax Convention holders of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary may be subject to limitation.
between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares, the US dollar value of the foreign Shares or ADRs held by an individual currency payment, determined at the spot shareholder who is domiciled for the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 235 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in UK stamp duty reserve tax usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value the US, and is not for the purposes of the and stamp duty of the consideration.
Paperless transfers Estate Tax Convention a national of the A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp of Ordinary Shares within CREST are UK, will generally not be subject to UK duty reserve tax SDRT may arise on the generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% inheritance tax on the individuals death or deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection of the value of the consideration.
CREST on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares with the creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp is obliged to collect SDRT from the or ADRs during the individuals lifetime, duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the purchaser on relevant transactions settled provided that any applicable US federal value of the consideration or, in some within the system.
gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless the circumstances, the value of the Ordinary Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the Shares.
There is no 1.5% SDRT charge Exchange controls and other business property of a permanent on the issue of Ordinary Shares or, where limitations affecting security holders establishment of the individual in the UK or, it is integral to the raising of new capital, There are no governmental laws, decrees in the case of a shareholder who performs the transfer of Ordinary Shares into the or regulations in the UK restricting the independent personal services, pertain to ADR arrangement.
import or export of capital or affecting the a fixed base situated in the UK.
Where remittance of dividends, interest or other the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been No UK stamp duty will be payable on the payments to non-resident holders of placed in trust by a settlor who, at the acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
time of settlement, was a US domiciled provided that any instrument of transfer or shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or written agreement to transfer is executed There are no limitations under English law ADRs will generally not be subject to UK outside the UK and remains at all times or the Articles on the right of non-resident or inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the outside the UK.
An agreement for the foreign owners to be the registered holders time of settlement, was a UK national, transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a liability of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, or the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part for SDRT.
Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered of the business property of a permanent holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca establishment of the individual in the UK or, A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
in the case of a shareholder who performs Ordinary Shares will generally be subject independent personal services, pertain to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the Exchange rates to a fixed base situated in the UK.
In the amount or value of any consideration, The following information relating to exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is average and spot exchange rates used by or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance rounded to the nearest 5.
AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST for double taxation to be relieved by means will generally not be subject to stamp duty of credit relief.
or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for a consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, SEK US$ US$ GBP Average rates statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows 2012 6.7782 1.5834 2013 6.5089 1.5621 2014 6.7901 1.6532 End of year spot rates statement of financial position 2012 6.5176 1.6171 2013 6.4233 1.6502 2014 7.7451 1.5559 236 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
