Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Basis of accounting and preparation The financial position of the Group, its cash Judgements include matters such as the of financial information flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities determination of operating segments while The Consolidated Financial Statements are described in the Financial Review from estimates focus on areas such as carrying have been prepared under the historical cost page 70.
In addition, Note 25 to the Financial values, estimated useful lives, potential convention, modified to include revaluation Statements includes the Groups objectives, obligations and contingent consideration.
to fair value of certain financial instruments policies and processes for managing its AstraZenecas management considers as described below, in accordance with capital, its financial risk management thefollowing to be themost important the Companies Act 2006 and International objectives, details of its financial instruments accounting policies in the context of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and hedging activities and its exposures to Groups operations.
asadopted by the EU adopted IFRSs credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further details inresponse to the IAS regulation EC of the Groups cash balances and borrowings The accounting policy descriptions set out 1606 2002.
The Consolidated Financial areincluded in Notes 16 and 17 to the the areas where judgements and estimates Statements also comply fully with IFRSs Financial Statements.
need exercising, the most significant of asissued by the International Accounting which are revenue recognition, research and The Group has considerable financial Standards Board IASB.
development including impairment reviews resources available.
As at 31 December of associated intangible assets, business During the year, the Group has adopted the 2014, the Group has $7.0bn in financial combinations and goodwill, litigation and amendments to IAS 32, on offsetting financial resources cash balances of $6.4bn and environmental liabilities, employee benefits assets and liabilities, and IAS 39, on novation undrawn committed bank facilities of $3.0bn and taxation.
of derivatives and continuation of hedge that are available until April 2019, with only accounting.
The Group has also adopted $2.4bn of debt due within one year.
The Further information on estimates and critical IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies.
The adoption Groups revenues are largely derived from judgements made in applying accounting of these new amendments and the sales of products which are covered by policies, including details of significant Interpretation has not had a significant impact patents which provide a relatively high level methods and assumptions used, is detailed on the Groups profit for the period, net of resilience and predictability to cash inflows, in the Financial Review from page 70 and is assets or cash flows.
although our revenue is expected to continue included in Notes 4, 6, 8, 9, 20, 24and 27 to be significantly impacted bythe expiry of to the Financial Statements.
Financial risk The Company has elected to prepare patents over the medium term.
In addition, management policies are detailed in Note25.
theCompany Financial Statements in government price interventions in response accordance with UK Generally Accepted Revenue to budgetary constraints are expected to Accounting Practices GAAP.
These are Revenues comprise sales and income under continue to adversely affect revenues in many presented on pages 191 to 195 and the co-promotion and co-development of our mature markets.
However, we anticipate Accounting Policies inrespect ofCompany agreements.
new revenue streams from both recently information are set out on page192.
launched medicines and products in Income under co-promotion and coThe Consolidated Financial Statements development, and the Group has a wide development agreements is recognised when arepresented in US dollars, which is the diversity of customers and suppliers across it is earned as defined in the contract and can Companys functional currency.
In general, this is upon the Directors believe that, overall, the Group the sale of the co-promoted co-developed In preparing their individual Financial iswell placed to manage its business product or upon the delivery of a promotional Statements, the accounting policies of some riskssuccessfully.
overseas subsidiaries do not conform withIASB issued IFRSs.
Therefore, where After making enquiries, the Directors have Revenues exclude inter-company revenues appropriate, adjustments are made in order a reasonable expectation that the Company and value-added taxes and represent net to present the Consolidated Financial and the Group have adequate resources invoice value less estimated rebates, returns Statements on aconsistent basis.
tocontinue in operational existence for and settlement discounts.
Accordingly, they recognised when the significant risks and Basis for preparation of Financial continue to adopt the going concern rewards of ownership have been transferred Statements onagoingconcern basis basisinpreparing the Annual Report and to a third party.
In general, this is upon Information on the business environment Financial Statements.
delivery of the products to wholesalers.
AstraZeneca operates in, including the Inmarkets where returns are significant factors underpinning the pharmaceutical Estimates and judgements currently only in the US, estimates of returns industrys future growth prospects, is The preparation of the Financial Statements are accounted for at the point revenue is included in the Strategic Report.
Details in conformity with generally accepted recognised.
In markets where returns are not ofthe product portfolio of the Group accounting principles requires management significant, they are recorded when returned.
including patent expiry dates for key to make estimates and judgements that affect marketed products, our approach to For the US market, we estimate the quantity the reported amounts of assets andliabilities product development and our development at the date of the Financial Statements and and value of goods which may ultimately be pipeline are covered in detail with additional returned at the point of sale.
Our returns the reported amounts of revenues and information by Therapy Area inthe Strategic expenses during the reporting period.
Actual accruals are based on actual experience Report and Directors Report.
over the preceding 12months for established results could differ from those estimates.
products together with market-related 138 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Financial Statements information such as estimated stock levels at Intangible assets relating to products in The Groups policy up to and including 1997 wholesalers and competitor activity which we development both internally generated was to eliminate goodwill arising upon receive via third party information services.
andexternally acquired are subject to acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 For newly launched products, we use impairment testing annually.
All intangible First-time Adoption of International Financial ratesbased on our experience with similar assets are tested for impairment when there Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business products or a pre-determined percentage.
are indications that the carrying value may Combinations, such goodwill will remain not be recoverable.
Any impairment losses eliminated against reserves.
When a product faces generic competition, are recognised immediately in profit.
particular attention isgiven to the possible Joint arrangements Intangible assets relating to products levels of returns and, in cases where the The Group has arrangements over which it whichfail during development or for which circumstances are such that the level of has joint control and which qualify as joint development ceases for other reasons returns and, hence, revenue cannot be operations or joint ventures under IFRS 11 aretested for impairment at the point of measured reliably, revenues are only Joint Arrangements.
For joint operations, the termination and are written down to their recognised when the right of return expires, Group recognises its share of revenue that it recoverable amount which is usually zero.
which is generally on ultimate prescription earns from the joint operations and its share of the product to patients.
If, subsequent to an impairment loss being of expenses incurred.
The Group also recognised, development restarts or other recognises the assets associated withthe Further detail on key judgements and facts and circumstances change indicating joint operations that it controls andthe estimates is included in the Financial Review that the impairment is less or no longer exists, liabilities it incurs under the joint arrangement from page 70. the value of the asset is re-estimated andits collaboration agreements.
Forjoint ventures, Research and development carrying value is increased to the recoverable the Group recognises its interest in the joint Research expenditure is recognised in profit amount, but not exceeding theoriginal venture as an investment and uses the equity in the year in which it is incurred.
value, by recognising an impairment reversal method of accounting.
Internal development expenditure is Employee benefits capitalised only if it meets the recognition Business combinations and goodwill The Group accounts for pensions and other criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values employee benefits principally healthcare Whereregulatory and other uncertainties are attributed to the identifiable assets and under IAS 19 Employee Benefits issued are such that the criteria are not met, the liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the in2011.
Inrespect of defined benefit plans, expenditure is recognised in profit and this fair value cannot be measured reliably, obligations are measured at discounted is almost invariably thecase prior to approval in which case the value is subsumed into present value while plan assets are measured of the drug by the relevant regulatory authority.
Where the Group fully acquires, at fair value.
Theoperating and financing Where, however, recognition criteria are through a business combination, assets that costs of such plans are recognised separately met, intangible assets are capitalised and were previously held in joint operations, the in profit: current service costs are spread amortised on a straight-line basis over their Group has elected not to uplift the book value of systematically over the lives ofemployees useful economic lives from product launch.
the existing interest in the asset held in the joint and financing costs are recognised in full At 31December 2014, no amounts have operation to fair value at the date full control is in the periods in which they arise.
Where fair values of acquired contingent Remeasurements of the net defined pension liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the liability, including actuarial gains and losses, Payments to in-licence products and assumed contingent liability isnot recognised are recognised immediately in other compounds from third parties for new but is disclosed in the same manner as other comprehensive income.
research and development projects contingent liabilities.
inprocess research and development, Where the calculation results in a surplus generally taking the form of upfront payments to the Group, the recognised asset is limited Future contingent elements of consideration and milestones, are capitalised.
Where which may include development and launch to the present value of any available future payments made to third parties represent refunds from the plan or reductions in future milestones, revenue threshold milestones future research and development activities, and revenue-based royalties, are fair valued contributions to the plan.
Payments to an evaluation is made as to the nature of defined contribution plans are recognised at the date of acquisition using decision-tree thepayments.
Such payments are expensed analysis with key inputs including probability in profit as they fall due.
if they represent compensation for of success, consideration of potential delays Taxation subcontracted research and development and revenue projections based on the The current tax payable is based on taxable services not resulting in a transfer of Groups internal forecasts.
Unsettled amounts profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs intellectual property.
By contrast, of consideration are held at fair value within fromreported profit because taxable profit paymentsare capitalised if they represent payables with changes in fair value excludes items that are either never taxable compensation for the transfer of intellectual recognised immediately in profit.
or tax deductible or items that are taxable property developed at the risk of the Goodwill is the difference between the or tax deductible in a different period.
Since acquired products and fairvalue of the consideration and the fair TheGroups current tax assets and liabilities compounds will only generate sales and value of net assets acquired.
are calculated using tax rates that have been cash inflows following launch, our policy is to enacted or substantively enacted by the minimise the period between final approval and Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised reporting date.
launch if it is within AstraZenecas control to and subject to an impairment review, both do so.
Assets capitalised are amortised, on a Deferred tax is provided using the balance annually and when there is an indication that straight-line basis, over their useful economic the carrying value may not be recoverable.
sheet liability method, providing for temporary lives from product launch.
Under this policy, differences between the carrying amounts Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December it is not possible to determine precise 2002, goodwill was amortised over its of assets and liabilities for financial reporting economic lives for individual classes of purposes and the amounts used for taxation estimated useful life: such amortisation intangible assets.
However, lives do not ceased on 31 December 2002. purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised exceed 20 years.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 139 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies can be utilised.
This requires judgements However, the total lives range from are measured at amortised cost using to be made in respect of the availability of approximately 10 to 50 years for buildings, theeffective interest rate method, less any future taxable income.
and three to 15 years for plant and impairment losses.
Trade receivables that are equipment.
All items of property, plant and subject to debt factoring arrangements are No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised equipment are tested for impairment when derecognised if they meet the conditions for in respect of temporary differences there are indications that the carrying value derecognition detailed in IAS39 Financial associated with investments in subsidiaries may not be recoverable.
Any impairment Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
and branches where the Group is able to losses are recognised immediately in profit.
control the timing ofreversal of the temporary Trade and other payables differences and it is probable that the Borrowing costs Financial liabilities included in trade and other temporary differences will not reverse in The Group has no borrowing costs with payables are recognised initially at fair value.
respect to the acquisition or construction Subsequent to initial recognition they are of qualifying assets.
All other borrowing measured at amortised cost using the The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities costs are recognised in profit as incurred effective interest rate method.
are calculated using tax rates that are and in accordance with the effective interest expected to apply in the period when the Financial instruments rate method.
liability is settled or the asset realised based The Groups financial instruments include on tax rates that have been enacted or Leases interests in leases, trade and other substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Leases are classified as finance leases receivables and payables, liabilities for if they transfer substantially all the risks and contingent consideration under business Accruals for tax contingencies require rewards incidental to ownership, otherwise combinations, and rights and obligations management to make judgements and they are classified as operating leases.
under employee benefit plans which are estimates of exposures in relation to tax Assets and liabilities arising on finance dealt with in specific accounting policies.
Tax benefits are not recognised leases are initially recognised at fair value or, unless the tax positions will probably be The Groups other financial if lower, the present value of the minimum sustained.
Once considered to be probable, instrumentsinclude: lease payments.
The discount rate used in management reviews each material tax calculating the present value of the minimum cash and cash equivalents benefit to assess whether a provision should lease payments is the interest rate implicit fixed deposits be taken against full recognition ofthat in the lease.
Finance charges under finance other investments benefit on the basis of potential settlement leases are allocated to each reporting bank and other borrowings through negotiation and or litigation.
All period so as to produce a constant periodic derivatives.
provisions are included in current liabilities.
rate of interest on the remaining balance Any liability to interest ontax liabilities is Cash and cash equivalents of the finance liability.
Rentals under provided for in the tax charge.
See Note 27 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash operating leases are charged to profit to the Financial Statements for further details.
in hand, current balances with banks and on a straight-line basis.
similar institutions and highly liquid Share-based payments Subsidiaries investments with maturities of three months All plans are assessed and have been A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly or less when acquired.
They are readily classified as equity settled.
The grant date or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
Control convertible into known amounts of cash fair value of employee share plan awards is is regarded as the exposure or rights to the and are held at amortised cost.
calculated using a modified version of the variable returns of the entity when combined binomial model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Fixed deposits with the power to affect those returns.
Share-based Payment, the resulting cost is Fixed deposits, principally comprising recognised in profit over the vesting period The financial results of subsidiaries are funds held with banks and other financial of the awards, being the period in which the consolidated from the date control is institutions, are initially measured at fair value, services are received.
The value of the charge is obtained until the date that control ceases.
plus direct transaction costs, and are adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels subsequently remeasured to amortised cost Inventories of awards vesting, except where the failure using the effective interest rate method at Inventories are stated at the lower of cost to vest is as a result of not meeting amarket each reporting date.
Changes in carrying and net realisable value.
The first in, first out condition.
Cancellations of equity instruments value are recognised in profit.
or an average method of valuation is used.
are treated as an acceleration of the vesting Forfinished goods and work in progress, Other investments period and any outstanding charge is cost includes directly attributable costs and Where investments have been classified recognised in profit immediately.
certain overhead expenses including as held for trading, they are measured initially Property, plant and equipment depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain at fair value and subsequently remeasured The Groups policy is to write off the other overhead expenses principally central to fair value at each reporting date.
Changes difference between the cost of each item administration costs are excluded.
Net in fair value are recognised in profit.
ofproperty, plant and equipment and its realisable value is determined as estimated In all other circumstances, the investments residual value over its estimated useful life selling price less all estimated costs of are classified as available for sale, initially on a straight-line basis.
Assets under completion and costs to be incurred in selling measured at fair value including direct construction are not depreciated.
transaction costs and subsequently Reviews are made annually of the estimated Write-downs of inventory occur in the general remeasured to fair value at each reporting remaining lives and residual values of course of business and are recognised in date.
Changes in carrying value due to individual productive assets, taking account cost of sales.
changes in exchange rates on monetary of commercial and technological available for sale investments or impairments Trade and other receivables obsolescence as well as normal wear and are recognised in profit.
All other changes Financial assets included in trade and other tear.
Under this policy it becomes impractical in fair value are recognised in other receivables are recognised initially at fair to calculate average asset lives exactly.
Subsequent to initial recognition they 140 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Financial Statements Impairments are recorded in profit when there Monetary assets, arising from foreign of legal costs and or all or part of any loss is a decline in the value of an investment that currency transactions, are retranslated at incurred or for which a provision has been is deemed to be other than temporary.
On exchange rates prevailing at the reporting established, the best estimate of the amount disposal of the investment, the cumulative date.
Exchange gains and losses on expected to be received is recognised as amount recognised in other comprehensive loans and on short-term foreign currency an asset only when it is virtually certain.
income is recognised in profit as part of the borrowings and deposits are included within AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental gain or loss on disposal.
Exchange differences on liabilities relating to its past operations, all other foreign currency transactions are Bank and other borrowings principally in respect of soil and groundwater recognised in operating profit in the individual The Group uses derivatives, principally remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs Group entitys accounting records.
interest rate swaps, to hedge the interest are made when there is a present obligation rate exposure inherent in a portion of its fixed Non-monetary items arising from and where it is probable that expenditure on interest rate debt.
In such cases the Group foreigncurrency transactions are not remedial work will be required and a reliable will either designate the debt as fair value retranslatedin the individual Group entitys estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions through profit or loss when certain criteria accountingrecords.
are discounted where the effect is material.
are met or as the hedged item under a fair In the Consolidated Financial Statements, Impairment value hedge.
income and expense items for Group entities The carrying values of non-financial assets, If the debt instrument is designated as with a functional currency other than US other than inventories and deferred tax fairvalue through profit or loss, the debt is dollars are translated into US dollars at assets, are reviewed at least annually to initially measured at fair value with direct average exchange rates, which approximate determine whether there is any indication of transaction costs being included in profit as to actual rates, for the relevant accounting impairment.
For goodwill, intangible assets an expense and is remeasured to fair value periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated under development and for any other assets at each reporting date with changes in at the US dollar exchange rates prevailing where such indication exists, the assets carrying value being recognised in profit at thereporting date.
Exchange differences recoverable amount is estimated based along with changes in the fair value of the arising on consolidation are recognised in onthe greater of its value in use and its fair related derivative.
Such a designation has other comprehensive income.
In assessing value been made where this significantly reduces inuse, the estimated future cash flows, If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar an accounting mismatch which would result adjusted for the risks specific to each asset, denominated loans or derivatives are from recognising gains and losses on are discounted to their present value using designated as net investment hedges of different bases.
a discount rate that reflects current market foreign operations.
Exchange differences assessments of the time value of money and If the debt is designated as the hedged arising on retranslation of net investments, the general risks affecting the pharmaceutical item under a fair value hedge, the debt is and of foreign currency loans which are industry.
For the purpose of impairment initially measured at fair value with direct designated in an effective net investment testing, assets are grouped together into the transaction costs being amortised over the hedge relationship, are recognised in other smallest group of assets that generates cash life of the bonds, and is remeasured for fair comprehensive income in the Consolidated inflows from continuing use that are largely value changes in respect of the hedged risk Financial Statements.
Foreign exchange independent of the cash flows of other assets.
ateach reporting date with changes in derivatives hedging net investments in Impairment losses are recognised carrying value being recognised in profit foreign operations are carried at fair value.
along with changes in the fair value of the Effective fair value movements are recognised related derivative.
International accounting transition in other comprehensive income, with any ineffectiveness taken to the income On transition to using adopted IFRSs in Other interest-bearing loans are initially theyear ended 31 December 2005, the Group statement.
Gains and losses accumulated measured at fair value with direct transaction in the translation reserve will be recycled to took advantage of several optional costs being amortised over the life of the exemptions available in IFRS 1 First-time profit when the foreign operation is sold.
bond and are subsequently remeasured to Adoption of International Financial Reporting amortised cost using the effective interest Litigation and environmental liabilities Standards.
The major impacts which are of rate method at each reporting date.
Changes Through the normal course of business, continuing importance are detailed below: in carrying value are recognised in profit.
AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost tothe Business combinations IFRS 3 Business Derivatives Group.
Provision is made where an adverse Combinations has been applied from Derivatives are initially measured at fair value outcome is probable and associated costs, 1January 2003, the date of transition, with direct transaction costs being included including related legal costs, can be rather than being applied fully in profit as an expense and are subsequently estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate retrospectively.
As a result, the combination remeasured to fair value at each reporting disclosures are included.
of Astra and Zeneca is still accounted for date.
Changes in carrying value are as a merger, rather than through purchase recognised in profit.
Where it is considered that the Group is accounting.
If purchase accounting had more likely than not to prevail, or in the rare Foreign currencies been adopted, Zeneca would have been circumstances where the amount of the Foreign currency transactions, being deemed to have acquired Astra.
legalliability cannot be estimated reliably, transactions denominated in a currency Cumulative exchange differences legal costs involved in defending the claim other than an individual Group entitys theGroup chose to set the cumulative are charged to profit as they are incurred.
functional currency, are translated into the exchange difference reserve at 1January relevant functional currencies of individual Where it is considered that the Group has 2003 to zero.
Group entities at average rates for the a valid contract which provides the right to relevant monthly accounting periods, reimbursement from insurance or otherwise whichapproximate to actual rates.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 141 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Applicable accounting standards In addition, the following amendments have andinterpretations issued but not been issued yetadopted Amendments to IAS 19 Employee IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was finalised Contributions, effective for periods by the IASB in July 2014 and is effective for beginning on or after 1 July 2014 accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2018.
The new standard will Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting replace existing accounting standards.
It is forAcquisitions of Interests in Joint applicable to financial assets and liabilities, Operations, effective for periods beginning and will introduce changes to existing on or after 1 January 2016 accounting concerning classification and Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant measurement, impairment introducing an and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible expected-loss method, hedge accounting, Assets Clarification of Acceptable and on the treatment of gains arising from the Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, impact of credit risk on the measurement of effective for periods beginning on or after liabilities held at fair value.
The standard has 1 January 2016 not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is not expected to have a Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated significant impact on the Groups net results Financial Statements and IAS 28 or net assets, although the full impact will be Investments in Associates and Joint subject to further assessment.
Ventures 2011 Sale or Contribution ofAssets between an Investor and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with itsAssociate or Joint Venture, effective Customers was issued by the IASB in May for periods beginning on or after 2014.
It is effective for accounting periods 1January 2016 beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The new standard will replace existing accounting Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative, standards, and provides enhanced detail effective for periods beginning on or after on the principle of recognising revenue to 1 January 2016. reflect the transfer of goods and services The above amendments are not expected to customers at a value which the company to have a significant impact on the Groups expects to be entitled to receive.
The net results, net assets or disclosures.
The standard also updates revenue disclosure amendments to IAS 19 were endorsed by requirements.
The standard has yet to be the EU on 17 December.
The remaining endorsed by the EU.
The Group is currently amendments have yet to be endorsed by assessing the impact of IFRS 15 on the the EU.
results of the Group and are considering the impacts, if any, on certain revenue items including, but not limited to, licence income and milestone revenues.
142 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014
