Financial Statements Financial Statements A A3 3.. S Subsi ubsid di ia ar ry y U Un nde der rt ta ak ki in ngs gs Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 2014 2013 Country of Incorporation Holding % Holding % Principal Activity SSE Services plc i England and Wales 100 100 Corporate support services SSE Energy Supply Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity supply SSE Generation Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Medway Power Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation SSE Generation Ireland Limited ii Ireland 100 100 Electricity generation Keadby Generation Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Southern Electric Gas Limited vi England and Wales 100 100 Gas supply Clyde Windfarm Scotland Limited x Scotland 100 100 Renewable electricity generation Griffin Wind Farm Limited xi Scotland 100 100 Renewable electricity generation SSE Renewables Developments UK Limited viii Northern Ireland 100 100 Wind generation development onshore SSE Renewables Ireland Limited iii Ireland 100 100 Renewables holding company onshore, Ireland SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited Northern Ireland 100 100 Renewables holding company onshore and offshore, UK SSE Renewables offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Renewable holding company offshore, UK SSE Airtricity Limited iii Ireland 100 100 Energy supply SSE Airtricity Energy Supply NI Limited ix Northern Ireland 100 100 Energy supply Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc iv Scotland 100 100 Transmission of electricity Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc iv Scotland 100 100 Distribution of electricity Southern Electric Power Distribution plc iv England and Wales 100 100 Distribution of electricity SSE Metering Limited i Scotland 100 100 Meter reader and operator SSE Contracting Limited v England and Wales 100 100 Electrical contractor SSE Hornsea Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Gas storage SSE E&P UK Limited i Scotland 100 100 Gas exploration and production SSE Telecommunications Limited i Scotland 100 100 Telecommunication services Neos Networks Limited vii England and Wales 100 100 Telecommunication services The above companies shares consist of ordinary shares only.
All companies operate in the UK and Ireland.
All companies have accounting periods ending on 31 March.
The Group has other subsidiary undertakings which do not significantly affect the results and position disclosed in these financial statements.
A full list of the subsidiary undertakings will be included in the companys annual return.
Shares in the above subsidiaries are held by: i SSE plc ii SSE Generation Limited.
iii SSE Renewables Holdings Limited iv Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution Limited.
vi SSE Energy Supply Limited.
viii SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited ix SSE Renewables Group UK Limited x SSE Renewables Developments UK Limited xi Griffin Wind Farm Holdings Limited 175 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued for the year ended 31 March 2014 A A3 3.. S Subsi ubsid di ia ar ry y U Un nde der rt ta ak ki in ngs gs c con ont tiinue nued d Service Concession Arrangements In 50:50 partnership with Royal Bank Leasing Limited, the Group established three companies to provide street lighting services to councils under the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
These services are thereafter sub-contracted to SSE Contracting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
The companies established are as follows: Company Council Tay Valley Lighting Stoke on Trent Limited Stoke-on-Trent Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside Limited Newcastle and North Tyneside Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited Leeds City Council Under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, despite being 50% owned, these companies are categorised as subsidiaries and are accounted for accordingly due to the Group being deemed to bear the majority of the risks and rewards associated with the companies.
The debt associated with these companies is non-recourse to the Group.
The arrangements for all three companies are materially similar.
In addition to these, the Group owns 100% of the share capital of entities which perform similar services under eight PFI contracts.
The terms of the service concession arrangement are similar to those operated by the companies noted above.
The council and contract holder within the acquired group are as follows: Company Council Dorset Lighting Limited Dorset County Council Ealing Lighting Limited London Borough of Ealing Islington Lighting Limited London Borough of Islington Tay Valley Lighting Hampshire Limited Hampshire County Council Tay Valley Lighting Southampton Limited Southampton City Council Tay Valley Lighting West Sussex Limited West Sussex County Council Tay Valley Lighting Nottingham Limited Nottingham County Council Tay Valley Lighting Knowsley Limited Knowsley Metropolitan Borough Council Characteristics of the arrangements Description The contracts are 25 year arrangements to replace ageing street-lighting stock and to subsequently maintain the new assets throughout each Councils areas.
Significant terms The cash flows under the PFI arrangements come from the unitary charge for these services paid by the Councils.
The unitary charge can only be adjusted if performance under the contract falls below the required standards.
Any significant change to the services proposed by either party is subject to a formal change procedure and agreement to such a change is required by the other party.
Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation is passed down to SSE Contracting Limited or to other companies within the SSE Contracting group of companies through the operating sub-contract.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25 year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additional services: i Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
ii Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct a percentage of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
A number of these companies have been designated as Held for Sale at 31 March 2014 following the restructuring and value programme announcement made on 26 March 2014.
