Financial Statements Financial Statements SSEs financial results explained Mar-2013 Mar-2012 Mar-2014 restated restated m m m SSEs results on an adjusted basis: Adjusted operating profit Note 4 1,880.1 1,779.0 1,657.8 Adjusted net finance costs 329.0 363.9 319.7 Adjusted Profit before Tax PBT 1,551.1 1,415.1 1,338 Adjusted current tax charge 236.7 223.6 213.4 Adjusted Profit after Tax PAT 1,314.4 1,195.5 1,124 Hybrid coupon paid 122.9 63.4 65.5 Adjusted Profit after Tax for EPS 1,195.5 1,128.1 1,059.2 Weighted average number of shares for adjusted EPS 965.5 952.0 937.8 Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS pence 132.4 118.5 112.9 Why do we have Adjusted numbers for Profit Before Tax PBT, Profit After Tax PAT, Earnings Per Share EPS and Net Debt and Hybrid Capital?
The accounting rules used for preparing SSEs financial statements are the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and SSEs Reported Results for PBT, PAT, EPS and net debt are presented in accordance with these rules.
SSE also publishes these financial measures on an Adjusted basis reflecting a number of adjustments to the IFRS numbers that it believes give a more meaningful and comparable set of numbers.
These adjustments fall into four main categories: 1 Movements on derivatives IFRSs require that certain contracts to buy or sell electricity, gas and other commodities for use in the future generation of power or in satisfying the Groups customers future consumption requirements are recognised at fair value at each year end.
This requires measuring the contract price against the market price for the period of the contract.
Similarly, derivative contracts used to manage the Groups foreign exchange and interest rate risk are also measured at fair value at each year end.
The movement on these fair values are reported within the income statement despite the fact that the resulting gain or loss does not crystallise until the delivery of the contract and that it may in fact never crystallise if the market price changes.
As a result, SSE makes an adjustment to exclude this item from its Adjusted numbers.
2 Exceptional Items In order to ensure that results are comparable year on year, exceptional items are separately identified and disclosed.
Exceptional items are defined as exceptional by virtue of nature and scale and, in general, they relate to unusual events that have had a material impact on results.
SSE excludes these from its Adjusted numbers so as to ensure that results can be compared from year to year and that any one-off items that might distort the comparability of the reults from year to year are not included in the headline numbers.
3 Interest on net pension liabilities IAS 19R International Accounting Standard IAS 19R in relation to accounting for defined benefit pension schemes requires the income statement to reflect the theoretical interest payable on net pension liabilities.
It is because this interest is theoretical and non-cash, as well as being likely to change year on year while not reflecting company performance, that SSE makes an adjustment for this cost when presenting its adjusted profit measures.
4 Tax and interest on JCEs and Associates IFRSs require that reported operating profit includes the results of the main SSE businesses before interest and tax but that results of any Jointly Controlled Entities JCEs or Associate companies are included after interest and tax.
SSE believes that it is clearer for the user of the Financial Statements to have all the results at operating profit level on a before interest and tax basis.
Therefore SSEs Adjusted Profit Before Interest and Tax makes an adjustment to add interest and tax on JCEs and Associates back to the Reported result.
There is no impact on the Group Profit after Tax but, for clarity, the adjusted interest and tax numbers reflect the totals for all of SSEs businesses.
Other specific adjustments: 5 Deferred tax As it is a non-cash item, SSE adjusts for deferred tax when arriving at adjusted profit after tax.
6 Hybrid capital securities The characteristics of hybrid capital securities mean that under IFRSs they qualify for recognition as equity rather than debt in the financial statements with charges for the coupon associated with them presented within dividends rather than within interest.
In order to ensure simple and comparable presentation of these capital securities within its adjusted EPS measure, SSE makes an adjustment to reduce earnings by the coupon paid in the year.
For the same reasons, SSE presents adjusted net debt and hybrid capital as one balance.
7 Finance lease Under IFRSs, net debt includes a liability for a finance lease based primarily upon the Power Purchase Agreement PPA that SSE has in place with Marchwood power station.
SSE adjusts this out of net debt when arriving at adjusted net debt as it believes that this better reflects the true net debt position of the company 8 Outstanding liquid funds Outstanding liquid funds are SSE cash balances that are being held by counterparties as collateral at the year end.
SSE adjusted these out of the net debt when arriving at adjusted net debt as, until utilitised they remain SSEs cash.
