Intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current 433.7 368.4 Non-current: Goodwill 585.1 635.8 Other 304.2 282.2 1,323.0 1,286.4 122 SSE plc Annual Report 2014 1.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 13 3.. G Go oo od dwi wil ll a l an nd o d ot th he er i r in nt ta an ng gi ib bl le a e as ss se et ts s c con ont tiinue nued d a Impairment review of goodwill and basis of other impairment reviews Goodwill arising from business contributions is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for impairment testing purposes.
Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation.
A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the groups operating segments is presented below: 2014 2013 Cash-generating unit Operating segment m m Ireland wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 131.5 153.1 GB wind farms Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 199.9 199.9 GB Energy Supply Energy Supply 187.0 187.0 GB Generation Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 10.1 10.1 Gas Storage Gas Storage 26.2 Exploration and Production Gas Production 38.1 38.1 1 Other Networks Other Networks 10.3 10.6 1 Energy-related Services Energy-related Services 2.5 1 Ireland Supply Energy Supply 8.2 8.3 585.1 635.8 1 Represented goodwill balances arising from acquisitions of Telecoms, Streetlighting Other Networks and Contracting businesses Energy-related services businesses.
The amount of goodwill associated with these businesses is not significant in context of the aggregate carrying value of the business units or the aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.
Following review, 0.8m 2013 nil of this goodwill was impaired through consideration of ongoing trading prospects with other impairments 1.9m, 2013 nil being recognised as part of the exceptional charges associated with the 26 March 2014 announcement referred to in Note 6.
The recoverable amounts of the GB Energy Supply, Gas Storage and Exploration and Production CGUs are determined by reference to value-in-use calculations.
The value-in-use calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups five year Corporate Model as approved by the Board.
The Groups Corporate Model is based on past experience and reflects the Groups forward view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives.
Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.
The recoverable amount of the wind farm CGUs is based on the fair value less costs to sell methodology.
The basis applied has been deemed appropriate as it is consistent with the way in which the economic values of the CGUs are assessed by management and how they would be by other market participants.
The method applied is to determine fair value by assessing the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be earned by the individual wind farm projects within the respective CGUs.
The two identified CGUs Ireland wind farms and UK wind farms share many of the same risk factors and are accordingly discounted using the same discount rates.
The key assumptions used for the main value-in-use calculations are as follows: 2014 and 2013 2014 and 2013 Cash flow Discount rates projection period Cash-generating unit Operating segment % years Ireland and GB wind farms onshore and offshore Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 7.0% 9.0% up to 25 GB Energy Supply Energy Supply 7.3% 5 GB Generation excluding wind Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 7.3% up to 15 Gas Storage Gas Storage 7.3% 25 Exploration and Production Gas Production 8.0% 10.0% Life of field Management have determined the pre-tax cash flows of each CGU based on past performance and its expectations of market development.
Further detail on how the cash flow projections have been derived is included in the specific commentaries.
The discount rates used are pre-tax real and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant operating segments.
The discount rates used have been benchmarked against externally published rates used by comparable quoted companies operating in the respective market sectors.
The discount rates applied in both 2014 and 2013 remain consistent across all CGUs reflecting the Groups view of cost of capital and risk.
The recoverable amount derived from the value-in-use calculation is compared to the carrying amount of each CGU to determine whether the respective CGUs require to be impaired.
123 Financial Statements Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2014 1 13 3.. G Go oo od dwi wil ll a l an nd o d ot th he er i r in nt ta an ng gi ib bl le a e as ss se et ts s c con ont tiinue nued d Specific comments on the key value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations for the main CGUs and the results of the tests conducted follow: Wind farm CGUs For goodwill impairment testing purposes, the significant wind farm CGUs were established following the acquisition of the SSE Renewables formerly Airtricity business in 2008.
In order to assess the respective recoverable amounts against an appropriate carrying value, goodwill was allocated to the main geographic regions in which the business operates.
The established CGUs Ireland and GB have subsequently been assessed by considering the specific market attributes of those regions.
Currency cash flows are set at the exchange rate at the time the impairment test is conducted.
Aside from the specific market factors, the basis of review of the respective CGUs is identical.
Wind farm projects have an estimated useful life of up to 25 years and it is considered appropriate by management to assess the carrying amount against cash flow projections covering this period.
The Ireland and GB wind CGUs include wind farms in operation and both CGUs include projects in the construction phase.
Projects that are in development are those which have not received consent or have not concluded all environmental or planning studies.
Following the Groups announcement that it intends to scale back its commitment to offshore development, cash flows from all such projects have been excluded from the goodwill impairment review.
Cash inflows for all projects are based on expected generation output based on wind studies and past experience and are valued at forward power prices based on market information, where available, continuing government support for wind ROCs and internal model assumptions.
Cash outflows are based on planned capital expenditure and expected maintenance costs.
The power prices and costs of operation are the most significant distinguishing factors in the respective CGU regions.
Growth is based on the expected output of the respective wind farms at their available operational capacity over their life cycle and on delivery of projects in the development pipeline.
Outcome of tests The recoverable amount of the GB wind farm CGU exceeded the carrying values at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the fair value less costs-to-sell would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
The recoverable amount of the Ireland wind farm CGU was below the carrying value of associated assets and accordingly an exceptional impairment of goodwill of 20.0m was recognised.
Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions applied could increase the level of impairment by 20.0m.
However, the level of impairment recognised is assessed as being appropriate based on current projections.
GB Energy Supply Goodwill carried in relation to the acquisition, in 2001, of Swalec is attributed to the Groups UK retail electricity and gas supply business CGU.
The CGU is equivalent to the Energy Supply reported segment with the exception of the Airtricity supply business in Ireland.
Margins assumed in the value-in-use test are based on the forecast impact of the two year retail energy price freeze that was announced by the Group on 26 March 2014 along with its estimates of the direct and indirect costs of the business in this period.
This includes the impact of this and other changes on market share estimated to arise over this period.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the GB Energy Supply CGU exceeded the respective carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
GB Generation excluding wind Goodwill of 10.1m is carried by the Group in relation to acquired deferred tax temporary differences.
The operational plants in Electricity Portfolio and Energy Generation Management are operated as part of the integrated business segment.
All main thermal generation plants exhibiting indications of impairment due to market and regulatory conditions have been assessed to ascertain the impact on carrying values see Note 14.
Gas Storage Goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of the Hornsea gas storage facility in 2003.
Cash flow projections are based on gross margins expected to be achieved in the period of the five year Corporate Model.
Beyond this period, cash flows have been extrapolated at a growth rate lower than the long-term growth rate of the economy to the end of the assets expected economic lives.
This longer period is necessary due to the long-term infrastructure nature of these assets but will consequently introduce less certainty into the valuation process.
Assumptions on margin for the Corporate Model period are based on expected demand for gas storage and take into account the decline in profitability experienced in this CGU over recent years, published and projected gas wholesale prices, planned capital expenditure required to maintain the value of the facility and estimated operating costs.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 13 3.. G Go oo od dwi wil ll a l an nd o d ot th he er i r in nt ta an ng gi ib bl le a e as ss se et ts s c con ont tiinue nued d Outcome of test The prospects in the medium term for the CGU continue to be impacted by lower volatility in the gas market and lower demand for gas storage.
As a consequence, an impairment charge of 137.7m, consisting of 26.2m goodwill and 111.5m plant and equipment, was recognised in the current year reflecting the immediate and longer term economic viability of the CGU.
While reasonably possible changes in assumptions could require further impairment of the residual carrying value in a range up to 50.0m, the level of impairment recognised is assessed as being appropriate.
It is noted that there remains inherent imprecision in the valuation process for these long-term infrastructure assets which is dependent upon a number of macro-economic factors.
Management believe a balanced position has been taken regarding these factors.
Exploration and Production Goodwill was recognised on the purchase of North Sea assets in 2011.
Goodwill was been attributed to three cash generating units being the three main field development areas Bacton, Easington Catchment Area ECA and Lomond Everest and their supporting infrastructure assets.
Indications of impairment at asset field level are investigated separately.
All goodwill was derived from the recognition of deferred tax temporary liabilities.
The impairment test assumptions are based on forward prices of gas, timing of cash flows including capital and abandonment costs, reserves information and discount rates.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of all Exploration and Production CGUs continued to exceed their carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the recoverable amount would not cause a change to the test outcome.
b Other intangible assets i Allowances and Certificates Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates ROCs.
In the year to 31 March 2013, the Group recognised an exceptional impairment charge of 139.2m against the value of carbon emissions allowances held following the impairment reviews of its thermal generation assets and the economic prospects for those plants.
ii Development assets Development costs relate to the design, construction and testing of thermal and renewable generation sites and devices, including wind farms, which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits.
Costs capitalised as development intangibles include options over land rights, planning application costs, environmental impact studies and other costs incurred in bringing wind farm and other generation and network development projects to the consented stage.
These may be costs incurred directly or at a cost as part of the fair value attribution on acquisition.
Development assets also includes the Groups exploration and evaluation expenditure in relation to exploration wells.
At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment Note 14.
At the point a project is no longer expected to reach the consented stage, the carrying amount of the project is impaired.
Exceptional impairment charges of 55.9m were recognised in relation to onshore and offshore wind developments.
In the prior year, exceptional impairment charges of 25.5m were recognised in relation to UK wind farm developments 20.0m and other development projects 5.5m.
iv Other intangible assets Included within other intangible assets are brands, customer lists, contracts, application software license fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC software packages.
Amortisation is over the shorter of the contract term or five years with the exception of certain application software assets, which are amortised over 10 years.
Exceptional impairment charges of 18.7m 2013 nil were recognised in relation to discontinued software development projects.
