Directors' Report Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance the financial statements, prepared in with applicable law and regulations.
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Group and parent company financial statements and profit or loss of the Group and the for each financial year.
Under that law they undertakings included in the consolidation are required to prepare the Group financial taken as a whole: and statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the Strategic Report and Directors Report by the EU and applicable law and have elected includes a fair review of the development and to prepare the parent company financial performance of the business and the position statements on the same basis.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Under company law the Directors must not whole, together with a description of the approve the financial statements unless they principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as of the state of affairs of the Group and parent a whole is fair, balanced and understandable company and of their profit or loss for that and provides the information necessary period.
In preparing each of the Group for shareholders to assess the Groups and parent company financial statements, performance business model and strategy.
the Directors are required to: For and on behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander reasonable and prudent: Chief Executive Finance Director state whether they have been prepared 20 May 2014 20 May 2014 in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the Going Concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report and a Directors Report including the Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
