Financial Statements Accompanying information continued for the year ended 31 March 2014 A A1 1.. B Ba as si is o s of c f co on ns so ol li id da at ti io on a n an nd s d si ig gn ni if fi ic ca an nt a t ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es s c con ont tiinue nued d Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and gas storage facilities and power stations at the end of the useful life of the facilities.
The estimates are based on technology and prices at the balance sheet date.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment when the provision gives access to future economic benefits.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
For offshore wind assets, power stations and gas storage facilities the unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation for the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset.
For gas production facilities the decommissioning asset is amortised using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
A A2 2.. Pr Pri in nc ci ip pa al j l jo oi in nt tl ly c y co on nt tr ro ol ll le ed e d en nt ti it ti ie es s, o, op pe era rat ti io on ns a s an nd a d as ss so oc ci ia at te es s Details of the principal jointly controlled entities, operations and associates are as follows: 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 Country of Incorporation Holding % Holding % Principal Activity Jointly Controlled Entities Scotia Gas Networks Limited iv England and Wales 50.0 50.0 Gas distribution networks Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited v England and Wales 50.0 50.0 Offshore wind development Marchwood Power Limited i England and Wales 50.0 50.0 Electricity generation Seabank Power Limited iii England and Wales 50.0 50.0 Electricity generation Multifuel Energy Limited i England and Wales 50.0 50.0 Multifuel electricity generation Associates Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Limited vi England and Wales 25.1 25.1 Offshore wind development Barking Power Limited i England and Wales 30.4 30.4 Electricity generation Location of operations Holding % Holding % Principal Activity Jointly Controlled Operations unincorporated Aldbrough England 66.7 66.7 Development of gas storage facility The above companies shares consist of ordinary shares only.
All companies operate in Great Britain and Ireland.
Seabank Power Limited, Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Limited and Marchwood Power Limited have accounting periods ending on 31 December.
All other companies have accounting periods ending on 31 March.
The Group has a number of other joint and associate investments that are not considered significant in relation to the results or position in these financial statements.
i Shares held by SSE Generation Limited ii Shares held by SSE Contracting Limited iii Shares held by SSE Seabank Investments Limited iv Shares held by SSE plc v Shares held by SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited vi Shares held by SSE Renewables Walney UK Limited 174 SSE plc Annual Report 2014
