Financial Statements Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2014 2 2.. S Su um mm ma ar ry o y of s f si ig gn ni if fi ic ca an nt n t new a ew ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng p g po ol li ic ci ie es a s an nd re d rep po or rt ti in ng c g ch ha an ng ge es s c con ont tiinue nued d ii Amendment to IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
The Group has applied this amendment retrospectively and the comparatives have been represented accordingly.
Within the Group statement of comprehensive income, items are now separated into Items that will be or have been recycled to the Group Income Statement and Items that will not be recycled to the Group Income Statement.
iii IFRS 13 IFRS 13: Fair value measurement has measurement and disclosure requirements that the Group was required to adopt for the March 2014 year-end onwards.
2.2 Effective in financial year ended 31 March 2015 and in future i IFRS 10, 11 and 12 IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11: Joint arrangements, IFRS 12: Disclosures of interests in other entities, and subsequent revisions to lAS 27: Separate financial statements and IAS 28: Investments in associates and joint ventures are new and revised standards that SSE will mandatorily be required to adopt in the year to 31 March 2015.
The Group has not adopted these standards early in these statements.
The most significant changes anticipated for the Group relate to the adoption of IFRS 11.
Under this new standard, certain of the Groups jointly controlled entities and associates, currently equity accounted, will be classified as joint operations.
Joint operations arise where the venturers are deemed to have joint control and have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement as opposed to having rights to the net assets and obligations for the liabilities of the operation.
Accordingly, a joint operator will recognise its share of the operations assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses in the consolidated Financial Statements rather than its net share of the ventures result.
The Group has assessed that certain of its significant investments which are currently equity accounted, such as Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited, are likely to fall within this category under the new standard.
Discussions are also ongoing with certain venture partners to confirm treatment in respect of specific arrangements.
This will result in the material restatement of the Groups Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Cash Flow Statements.
It should be noted that, as the Group currently reports its adjusted profit measures as explained on page 95 including its respective share of operating profit, interest and tax of the affected investments, no change is anticipated to arise in respect of the measures reported internally and in the Annual Report in respect of underlying performance.
A full explanation of the restatements arising from the adoption of IFRS 11, and the other new standards, will be included in the Groups Condensed Interim Statements for the six month period to 30 September 2014.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current financial period that have had a material impact on the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective.
In addition, as part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the IASB has issued the phases of IFRS 9 covering the classification and measurement of financial assets and the accounting for financial liabilities.
The other phases, covering hedge accounting and impairment, are still to be completed.
IFRS 9 is now expected to be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is continuing to assess the impact the standards and amendment will have on future financial statements.
C. Cr ri it ti ic ca al a l ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng j g ju ud dg ge em me en nt ts a s an nd k d ke ey s y so ou ur rc ce es o s of e f es st ti im ma at ti io on u n un nc ce er rt ta ai in nt ty y In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The Groups key accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted with the most Significant Financial Judgement areas as specifically discussed by the Audit Committee being highlighted separately.
Significant Financial Judgements The Financial Statements have been prepared with consideration given to the following Significant Financial Judgements which include areas of estimation uncertainty and accounting judgement.
i Revenue recognition Estimation Uncertainty Revenue on energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This will have been estimated by using historical consumption patterns and takes into consideration industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier and differences between estimated and actual meter data.
At the balance sheet date, the estimated consumption by customers will either have been billed estimated billed revenue or accrued unbilled revenue.
Management apply judgement to the measurement of the quantum of the estimated consumption and to the valuation of that consumption.
The judgements applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
ii Valuation of trade receivables Estimation Uncertainty The basis of determining the provisions for bad and doubtful debts is explained at Note 33.
While the provisions are considered to be appropriate, changes in estimation basis or in economic conditions could lead to a change in the level of provisions recorded and consequently on the charge or credit to the income statement.
iii Retirement benefits Estimation Uncertainty The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are based on the Groups best estimates and are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the level of the retirement benefit obligation recorded and the cost to the Group of administering the schemes.
The value of scheme assets are impacted by the asset ceiling test which a restricts the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered fully through refunds and b may increase the value of scheme liabilities where there are minimum funding liabilities in relation to agreed contributions.
Further detail on the estimation basis is contained in Note 31.
Financial Statements Financial Statements 3 3.. C Cr ri it ti ic ca al a l ac cc co ou un nt ti in ng j g ju ud dg ge em me en nt ts a s an nd k d ke ey s y so ou ur rc ce es o s of e f es st ti im ma at ti io on u n un nc ce er rt ta ai in nt ty y c con ont tiinue nued d iv Impairment testing and valuation of certain Non-Current Assets Estimation Uncertainty The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
Detail on the accounting policies applied is included the Accompanying Information section at pages 166 to 176.
In conducting the reviews, the Group makes judgements and estimates in considering the recoverable amount of the respective assets or cash-generating units CGUs.
The key assets under review are goodwill, thermal power generation assets, wind farm CGUs and specific assets, gas storage assets and exploration and production E&P assets.
Changes to the estimates and assumptions on factors such as power, gas, carbon and other commodity prices, volatility of gas prices, plant running regimes and load factors, expected 2P reserves, discount rates and other inputs could impact the assessed recoverable value of assets and CGUs and consequently impact the Groups income statement and balance sheet.
Further detail of the basis and assumptions used in the impairment review conducted for the financial year, and the resulting impairment charges, is included at Note 13. v Treatment of disputes and claims Accounting Judgement The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation and contractual disputes through the course of its normal operations.
The Group considers each instance separately in accordance with legal advice and will provide or disclose information as deemed appropriate.
Changes in the assumptions around the likelihood of an outflow of economic resources or the estimation of any obligation would change the values recognised in the financialstatements.
Other key accounting judgements Other key accounting judgements and presentation conventions applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements include the following: i Exceptional items and certain re-measurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
These items will be non-recurring and will include items such as asset or CGU impairment charges, restructuring costs or contractual settlements.
Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
ii Adjusted measures The Directors assess the performance of the reportable segments Operating profit by segment, Note 4 b based on an adjusted profit before interest and tax measure.
This is the basis used for internal performance management and is believed to be appropriate for explaining underlying performance.
The adjusted profit before interest and tax is reconciled to reported profit before interest and tax by adding back exceptional items, remeasurements arising from IAS 39 and after the removal of taxation on profits from jointly controlled entities and associates.
Following the adoption of IAS 19 revised, as detailed at Note 2 i, adjusted profit before tax, which is the key measure of Group financial performance, will now be presented after adding back the net interest costs associated with defined benefit schemes.
This represents a change in the current year and all comparative measures have been restated accordingly.
In addition, adjusted profit after tax will be reported on a basis consistent with this change.
The Directors also present details of an adjusted earnings per share measure, which is based on basic earnings per share before exceptional items, remeasurements arising from IAS 39, the net interest costs associated with IAS 19 revised and after the removal of deferred taxation.
The adjusted measures are considered more reflective of the Groups underlying performance, are consistent with way the Group is managed and avoids volatility arising from IAS 39 fair value measurements.
Reconciliations from reported measures to adjusted measures are included in SSEs financial results explained at pages 95 and 96. iii Business Combinations and acquisitions Business combinations and acquisitions require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of this purchase price to the identifiable assets and liabilities with any unallocated portion being recorded as goodwill.
Business combinations are disclosed in Note 18. iv Energy Company Obligation ECO costs The Energy Company Obligation ECO legislation, in force since 1 January 2013, requires qualifying energy suppliers to meet defined targets by providing measures to improve the energy efficiency of and level of carbon emissions from UK domestic households.
The targets for the Groups Energy Supply business are set based on historic customer information with delivery of the measures being required by 31 March 2017.
The Group believes it is not technically obligated to provide those measures until 31 March 2017.
As a consequence and applying applicable accounting standards, the costs of ECO are recorded when measures are delivered or other qualifying expenditure has been incurred.
