Financial Statements Notes on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 1 1.. G Ge en ne era ral I l Inf nfo or rm ma at ti io on a n an nd B d Ba as si is o s of p f pre rep pa ara rat ti io on n General information SSE plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 4 to 5.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 20 May 2014.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future despite net current liabilities of 576.2m.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in Note 33 of the Financial Statements on page 155.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at page 107 and 108.
2 2.. Su Sum mm mar ary y o of f s si ig gn ni if fi ic can ant t ne new w a ac cc co ou un nt ti ing ng po pol li ic ci ie es s an and d r re epo por rt ti ing ng c chang hange es s The basis of consolidation and principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below and in the Accompanying Information section A1 on pages 166 to 176.
New Standards, amendments and interpretations The newly effective accounting standards, amendments and interpretations are described at Note 2.1.
2.1 Effective in financial year ended March 2014 i IAS 19 revised IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits amends the accounting for employee benefits with the main change being the replacement of the interest cost on defined benefit obligations and the expected return on pension scheme assets with a net interest cost calculated on a net liability basis.
This has the impact of increasing net finance costs reported in the income statement.
A corresponding change is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
In addition, there are a number of smaller changes including the requirement to recognise certain scheme expenses in operating costs as opposed to in OCI.
The Group has applied the standard retrospectively in accordance with the transitional provisions and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
