Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the period ended 30 March 2014 1 General information Synergy Health plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group deliver a range of specialist outsourced services to healthcare providers and other customers concerned with health management.
The Company is registered in the United Kingdom under company registration number 3355631 and its registered office is Ground Floor Stella, Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, Wilts SN5 6NX.
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds and have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 115 to 123.
2 Accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to the nearest weekend to 31 March each year.
The current accounting period is 52 weeks in length 2013: 52 weeks in length.
Basis of consolidation Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Jointly-controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the entities assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, with items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies set out below.
Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements the Directors have considered the Groups business activities as set out in the strategic review and regional review, the financial position of the Group and its cash flows and borrowing requirements as set out in the Finance Directors review, and the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 33 to 37.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations The Group applies IFRS 3 revised Business combinations in accounting for business combinations.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Provisional fair value allocations are reviewed and if necessary adjusted no later than one year from the acquisition date.
Costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of services but sometimes goods are also supplied, usually as part of a service offering.
Revenue is recognised once the service has been completed and the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer.
The Group does not participate in activities which need to be accounted for under long-term contract accounting rules.
Non-recurring items Non-recurring income and expenses are those items that are one-off in nature and create significant volatility in reported earnings and are therefore reported separately in the income statement.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
82 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Finance charges and income Interest charges and income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Financing transaction costs that relate to financial liabilities are charged to interest expense by reference to the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial liability on the balance sheet.
Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised through the finance expense over the term of the facility.
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for that year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Furthermore, as the Group operates in many jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits which are complex and can take several years to conclude, the accrual for current tax includes provisions for uncertain tax positions which require estimates for each matter and the exercise of judgement in respect of the interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge of historic tax positions.
As amounts provided in any year could differ from the eventual tax liabilities, subsequent adjustments may arise which may have a material impact on the Group's tax rate and or cash payments.
The Group's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Dividends Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired by the Group are initially capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition, and subsequently stated at carrying value less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer-related intangibles 515 years Trade names 10 years Costs incurred in setting up long-term agreements are capitalised as intangible assets and amortised over the life of the contract to which the costs relate.
Technology licences are amortised from the date that they generate economic benefit and over the period of that benefit.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings The Groups policy is not to revalue property for accounting purposes.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Depreciation Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of tangible non-current assets excluding cobalt, less estimated residual values, over their estimated useful lives in equal annual instalments as follows: Freehold land Not depreciated Plant and machinery 320 years Freehold property 50 years Office equipment 35 years Leasehold improvements Period of lease Cobalt 15 years Assets in the course on construction Not depreciated Circulating inventory 15 years Cobalt is depreciated over 15 years: the reducing balance method is used for the first eight years, then the residual net book value is depreciated on a straight-line basis over seven years.
This method has been selected to align the depreciation charge with the radioactive decay profile of the cobalt-60 isotope.
Potential decommissioning costs are also capitalised and amortised over 15 years.
A corresponding provision is recognised in the balance sheet on acquisition.
Circulating inventory mainly comprises linen textile assets provided to customers on a rental service basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
During the year, management reassessed the useful economic lives of certain assets to establish consistency across the Group.
The net impact of this change in accounting estimate was a recurring and sustainable decrease of 4.3% to the Groups depreciation charge.
Assets held under leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under hire purchase contracts are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment in value is recognised in the income statement.
Investment property Investment properties are properties land and buildings which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the buildings over 50 years.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions will be required to Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past event, and it is probable that the Group settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where appropriate.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets which arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a third party, and where there is no intention of trading the financial asset.
The receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Any change in their value through impairment or reversal of impairment is recognised in the income statement.
84 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Accounting policies continued Provision against trade receivables is made when objective evidence is received that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the write down is determined as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are netted off against cash.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses floating to fixed interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts to manage these exposures.
Some of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows or against net investment in overseas subsidiaries are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not clearly related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statement of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement.
In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options see above for the details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 3 April 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value of each award is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The level of vesting is reviewed annually: the charge is adjusted to reflect actual and estimated levels of vesting.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model except for the Long Term Incentive Plan awards which are subject to a Total Shareholder Return performance condition where a model following similar principles to the Monte Carlo approach is used.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Where estimates and associated assumptions are made they are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Key areas of judgement, and estimate uncertainty, are set out below.
Impairment tests have been undertaken with respect to goodwill note 11 using commercial judgement and a number of assumptions and estimates have been made to support their carrying amounts.
Sensitivity analysis as at 30 March 2014 has indicated that no reasonable foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model will result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
In addition, a more detailed review has been carried out on certain Group assets, focusing on whether these assets required impairment.
Following the review, no impairment was judged to be required.
The designation of certain items of income and of cost as non-recurring in nature, and their separate disclosure as such in the primary statements of the Groups consolidated accounts.
In relation to the Groups property, plant and equipment note 13, useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.
In relation to the Groups cobalt provision, costs of future disposal are based on contractual arrangements with third parties and latest disposal cost estimates.
The Group cobalt depreciation policy is based on the actual physical decay of the cobalt-60 isotope.
In relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, actuarial assumptions are established using relevant market benchmark data and with the advice of external qualified actuaries.
Pension deficit valuations are most sensitive to changes in the underlying discount rate and inflation assumptions.
Customer-related intangibles that are acquired as part of an acquisition are valued based on the forecast discounted cash flows arising from these customers taking account of historically observed customer attrition rates.
The Group operates in a number of countries, all of which have their own tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at the current tax rate which may not be the tax rate at which they unwind.
The Group has available tax losses, some of which have been recognised and some of which have not, based upon managements judgement of the ability of the Group to utilise those losses.
Adoption of new standards With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits issued by the IASB in June 2011.
This amendment has been applied retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of certain previously reported figures.
In the year ended 31 March 2013, financing income in the income statement decreased by 875,000 with a corresponding increase in the actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The related deferred tax credit in the income statement increased by 201,000, with a corresponding reduction in the deferred tax credit recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The impact of these changes in the year to 30 March 2014 is not materially different from these figures.
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations must be applied for the first time by the Group for the period ending 30 March 2014 but are not currently relevant: IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities IAS 27 Separate financial statements IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12, IAS 27, IAS 32, and IAS 36 IFRIC 21 Levies 86 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
