Other information Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 107 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures Group Country of interest in incorporation equity Operating companies and operation % Arkem Pty Ltd South Africa 50 Distributor of specialty chemicals and allied products Malaysia 70 Quality Polymer Sdn Bhd Acrylic and vinyl polymer dispersions Malaysia 70 Revertex Malaysia Sdn Bhd Synthetic resin and emulsions, natural rubber latices, plasticers and allied products South Africa 100 Synthomer Pty Ltd Synthetic resin and emulsions and allied products England 100 Synthomer UK Ltd Synthetic emulsions, latex based compounds, polyvinyl alcohol acetate and liquid polybutadiene Netherlands 100 Synthomer BV Latex based compounds Germany 100 Synthomer Deutschland GmbH Synthetic rubber latices and emulsions Finland 100 Synthomer Finland Oy formerly Eka Synthomer Oy Styrene-butadiene latex products Saudi Arabia 49 Synthomer Middle East Company Acrylic and vinyl resin emulsions Egypt 88 Synthomer SAE Latex based compounds Malaysia 100 Synthomer Sdn Bhd Synthetic rubber latices Italy 100 Synthomer S. r. l. Synthetic rubber latices and acrylic polymer dispersions Vietnam 60 Synthomer Vietnam Co. Ltd Acrylic and vinyl emulsions England 100 William Blythe Ltd Inorganic chemicals Holding companies Synthomer Holdings Ltd England 100 Yule Catto Holdings GmbH Germany 100 Yule Catto Nederland BV Netherlands 100 Joint ventures.
Shares held by Synthomer plc.
c Total sales includes Group revenue and share of joint venture revenue.
d As defined in the accounting policies at note 2 and reconciled in note 5. e As defined in note 2 to the financial statements on page 65. f As defined in note 2 to the financial statements and reconciled in note 21. g As shown with the consolidated cash flow statement.
h Restated for impact of IAS 19 revised.
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com Photographs on page 3 courtesy of CSSA Synthomer Photographs on page 10 courtesy of Synthomer Des Head: CSSA Synthomer: Synthomer Photographs on page 11 courtesy of Synthomer Studio 9: CSSA Photographs on page 14 courtesy of Synthomer: Synthomer Peter Lempertz Photographs on page 15 courtesy of Shutterstock Digital Storm: IStock Terminator 1: Synthomer Studio 9 This Report has been printed in the UK by Empress Litho.
They have utilised their ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified environmental print production processes.
All materials used in the production of this Report are environmentally sustainable.
Vegetable based inks have been used throughout and the environmental impact is further reduced as Empress Litho are a single site production facility requiring no unnecessary transportation between facilities.
The Report has been printed on an environmentally responsible paper manufactured from FSC certified virgin fibre which is elemental chlorine free ECF and from sustainable, well-managed sources.
When you have finished with this report and do not wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers or recycle it, thank you.
