Strategic Report OUR OPERATIONS Tate & Lyle operates through two global divisions: Speciality Food Ingredients SFI Bulk Ingredients BI SFI develops, produces and markets distinctive, high-quality BI manufactures and markets products including sweeteners, ingredients for food and beverage customers across the world.
By industrial starches, ethanol, acidulants and animal feed, for food and leveraging our manufacturing facilities, innovative technology and beverage, industrial and agricultural customers around the world.
formulation expertise, we help create cost-effective, better tasting BI also partners with bio-based materials companies seeking expertise products for consumers.
to commercialise green chemistry fermentation.
One suchpartnership SFI works closely with our Innovation and Commercial Development is our joint venture with DuPont which manufactures Bio-PDO, group to develop and commercialise new products.
a bio-based ingredient used in thetextile and plastics industries.
Customers Customers t Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers t Large, multi-national food and beverage manufacturers t Small and medium-sized food and beverage manufacturers t Paper and board producers t Private label food and beverage manufacturers t Gasoline suppliers t Textile manufacturers t Animal feed compounders Products Products Sweeteners Specialit y corn-based sweeteners t Liquid sweeteners including corn syrup, dextrose and glucose including KRYSTAR Crystalline Fructose t Industrial starches High-intensity sweeteners including t Citric acid TM SPLENDA Sucralose, PUREFRUIT t Bio-fuels Monk Fruit Extract and TASTEVA t Animal feed including corn gluten feed and corn gluten meal Stevia Sweetener Texturants Speciality starches Locust bean gum Health and wellness PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber STA-LITE Polydextrose SODA-LO Salt Microspheres PromOat Beta Glucan Food Systems Food stabiliser systems Functional ingredient blends The Innovation and Commercial Development group supports our two divisions: Innovation and Commercial Development ICD ICD is a key enabler of Tate & Lyles growth strategy.
It brings together We have made investments in innovation and technical services facilities open innovation, R&D, global marketing and platform management into across the world to support these.
one global team, to provide an integrated approach towards developing Ideas are generated from both internal and external sources.
Internally, and commercialising innovative new products and technologies.
these come from work done by our own scientists.
Externally, we generate While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyles global divisions, it concentrates ideas from engagement with our customers and from our dedicated Open particularly on growing SFI.
As a result, ICDs resources are predominantly Innovation team which seeks to develop partnerships with universities, focused on three broad platforms within the global speciality food research institutions and start-ups specialising in food science and novel ingredients market sweeteners, texturants, and health and wellness.
We also invest in long-term external partnerships through our venture funds.
We have identied five core scientific competencies as being key to delivering innovation in these three platforms: bio-chemistry: formulations All of our ideas and innovations are put forward for commercialisation via a science: separations science: particle design: and organic chemistry.
dened process which is designed to prioritise ideas, time and resources.
Innovation and Open Research and Global Platform Commercial innovation development marketing management Development A clear focus on three SFI platforms Health and wellness Sweeteners Texturants Marketplace for SFI and BI Our business model Pages 10 and 11 Pages 12 and 13 06 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014
