Useful Information GLOSSARY A D N Acidulants Ingredients such as citric acid that Discontinued operations An operation is Natural A natural description usually refers to are used to add a sour taste to foods and soft classied as discontinued if it is a component a food ingredient that is present in nature and drinks and to act as a preservative.
of the Group that: i has been disposed of, has been minimally processed.
However, or meets the criteria to be classied as held interpretations vary as does the legal and Adjusted operating profit PBITEA for sale: and ii represents a separate major line regulatory landscape in different countries.
Operating profit as dened separately, of business or geographic area of operations adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible or will be disposed of as part of a single O assets and net exceptional items.
co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate Operating profit also referred to as profit Adjusted profit before tax PBTEA profit major line of business or geographic area before interest and tax PBIT Sales less net before taxation as dened separately, adjusted of operations.
for amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net exceptional items and net retirement benefit E P interest.
EFSA European Food Safety Authority.
profit before tax PBT Sales, less net Aatoxin A by-product of a grain fungus, operating expense, less net finance expense.
present in the 2012 US corn harvest.
F PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber A prebiotic Food Systems The Tate & Lyle blending soluble bre.
B business which is part of SFI and which sources BI Bulk Ingredients division.
PromOat Beta Glucan A soluble bre ingredients and uses them to develop bespoke made from wholegrain oats used to bring combinations of ingredients for customers.
Bio-PDO Multi-purpose monomer the health benets of oat beta glucan to propanediol made from corn sugar as Formulations science This is the study food and beverages.
opposed to being made from a petrochemical of how ingredients interact in complex mixtures source.
Used in cosmetics, detergents, PULPIZ Pulp Extender A starch that mimics to deliver specic attributes.
In food, multiple carpets and textiles.
tomato pulp texture and taste.
food components are blended to create desired texture, avour, appearance, and PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract C taste.
Formulation science is used to develop A zero-calorie sweetener made from monk fruit.
predictions of how combinations of ingredients Carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e will impact these important performance One metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an R attributes.
This is an interdisciplinary science amount of any other greenhouse gas with REZISTA speciality food starch A modied that includes chemistry, materials science and an equivalent global warming potential, starch made from waxy corn which builds elements of measurement science, statistics calculated consistently with international and protects texture in foods.
Functional food ingredients Ingredients CCC Cash conversion cycle, dened for the S that offer benets that go beyond the basic purposes of the Annual Bonus Plan as the Separations science Technology and nutritional role of the ingredient.
For example, number of days between cash expenditure and techniques used to isolate individual some carbohydrates are reported to have collection, taking account of inventory, payables compounds from complex mixtures.
It includes other benets such as improved and receivables: based on the average of the distillation, ltration, and a variety of other gastrointestinal function.
Clean label A term used in the food and G SFI Speciality Food Ingredients division.
beverage industry generally to refer to simpler Greenhouse gas GHG Any of the following: SME Smalland medium-sized enterprises.
ingredient lists for consumer appeal.
Detailed carbon dioxide CO2, methane CH4, nitrous For Tate & Lyle, this means regional or global interpretations may vary.
oxide N2O, hydrouorocarbons HFCs, customers with turnover below the level of Constant currency Changes in constant peruorocarbons PFCs, sulphur hexauoride approximately 500 million.
currency are calculated by retranslating SF6.
comparative period results at current period SODA-LO Salt Microspheres A salt-reducing ingredient made from salt.
H SPLENDA Sucralose A zero-calorie Continuing operations Operations of the HAMULSION food system A thickening sweetener made from sugar.
Group excluding any discontinued operations agent comprising a blend of different as dened separately.
STA-LITE Polydextrose A soluble bre with Continuous process facility A facility prebiotic properties made from corn and used HFCS High fructose corn syrup, also called to provide body and texture in reduced calorie, designed to manufacture a nished product isoglucose in Europe.
via continuous process rather than a batch no-added sugar and high-bre foods.
I T Co-products Corn gluten feed, corn gluten ICD Innovation and Commercial Development meal and corn oil.
TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener group, supporting our two business divisions, A zero-calorie sweetener made from stevia.
Corn gluten feed The largest Tate & Lyle co-product, used by dairy and beef Trading cash ows The Groups adjusted operating profit stated before the non-cash cattle markets.
K charges for depreciation and amortisation.
U USDA US Department of Agriculture.
144 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 DEFINITIONS EXPLANATORY NOTES Non-reliance statement Basis of preparation Environmental statement This Annual Report has been prepared Unless stated otherwise, the Groups financial This Annual Report has been printed on solely to provide additional information to statements are prepared in accordance with UPM Fine offset, a paper produced using shareholders to assess the Groups strategy International Financial Reporting Standards wood bre from fully sustainable forests with and the potential of that strategy to succeed, IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Forest Stewardship Council FSC and should not be relied upon by any other certication.
All pulps used are elemental Amortisation party or for any other purpose.
chlorine free and the manufacturing mill holds Unless stated otherwise, the use of the the ISO 14001 and the EMAS accreditations Cautionary statement word amortisation on pages 1 to 73 in this for environmental management.
This Annual Report contains certain forwardAnnual Report relates to the amortisation looking statements with respect to the financial of intangible assets acquired through Printed in the UK by Pureprint using vegetable inks and their Alcofree and Pureprint condition, results, operations and businesses business combinations.
These statements and environmental printing technology.
Pureprint Continuing operations is a CarbonNeutral company, is registered forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because Unless stated otherwise, all comments they relate to events and depend upon to the Environmental Management System ISO in this Annual Report refer to the continuing 14001 and is FSC chain-of-custody certied.
circumstances that may occur in the future.
operations adjusted to exclude exceptional There are a number of factors that could If you have nished with this Annual Report items, amortisation of intangible assets cause actual results or developments to differ and no longer wish to retain it, please pass acquired through business combinations and materially from those expressed or implied it on to other interested readers or dispose net retirement benefit interest.
A reconciliation by these forward-looking statements and of it in your recycled paper waste.
of reported and adjusted information is included forecasts.
Nothing in this Annual Report in Note 42.
The CO emissions from the production should be construed as a profit forecast.
2 and distribution of this Report have been Denitions Tate & Lyle PLC offset through the purchase of carbon credits In this Annual Report, Company means Tate & Lyle PLC is a public limited company in the Pureprint Gold programme.
The offsets Tate & Lyle PLC: Tate & Lyle or Group listed on the London Stock Exchange and is are always in Gold Standard accredited means Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiary registered in England and Wales.
More projects and currently come from the Basa and joint-venture companies.
information about Tate & Lyle can be found on Magogo project in South Africa.
The first Gold the Companys website, www.
Standard project of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviour-change programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal more efficiently thereby reducing carbon emissions and reducing health risks by producing less smoke.
com Credits Photography Peter Wynn Thompson Rob White Designed and produced by CONR A N DES I G N GROUP www.
