Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliations of the adjusted performance 1 Basis of preparation Discontinued operations measures to the most directly comparable In the Groups financial statements, the results, Description of business measures presented in accordance with IFRS assets and liabilities and cash ows of Tate & Lyle PLC the Company is a public are presented in Note 42. discontinued operations are presented limited company incorporated and domiciled separately from those of continuing operations.
The Companys Accounting standards adopted during An operation is classied as discontinued if it ordinary shares are listed on the London the year Stock Exchange.
is a component of the Group that: i has been At the beginning of the year, the Group adopted disposed of, or meets the criteria to be classied The Company, its subsidiaries and a number of new or revised accounting as held for sale: and ii represents a separate proportionately consolidated joint ventures standards that are outlined below.
With the major line of business or geographic area together the Group provides ingredients exception of the changes arising from the of operations or will be disposed of as part and solutions to the food, beverage and other adoption of IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose industries.
The Group operates from more Benets, the Groups principal accounting of a separate major line of business than 30 production facilities around the world.
policies are unchanged compared with the or geographic area of operations.
The Groups continuing operations comprise Fair value measurement IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benets two operating segments: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Segment Fair value is the price that would be received to IAS 19 Revised 2011 caused the Group to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an change the way it accounts for dened benefit information is presented in Note 4. orderly transaction between market participants pension and other retirement benefit plans.
It Accounting period at the measurement date, regardless of whether had no impact on the Groups financial position The Groups annual financial statements that price is directly observable or estimated but it changed the allocation of movements in are drawn up to 31 March.
These financial using another valuation technique.
In estimating the deficits or surpluses on the plans within and statements cover the year ended the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group between profit or loss and other comprehensive 31 March 2014 with comparative amounts takes into account the characteristics of the income.
Comparative amounts for 2013 have for the year ended 31 March 2013. asset or liability if market participants would take been restated on a consistent basis.
those characteristics into account when pricing An explanation and analysis of the effect Basis of accounting the asset or liability at the measurementdate.
of IAS 19 Revised 2011 on the Groups The consolidated financial statements on pages results for the year and the prior year is 77 to 133 have been prepared on the going Fair value measurements are categorised into presented in Note 43. concern basis in accordance with International Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the inputs to the fair value measurements are IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement adopted for use in the European Union and observable and the signicance of the inputs IFRS 13 established a single source of guidance those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are to the fair value measurement in its entirety, for measuring fair value and introduced applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
asfollows: consistent disclosures about fair value The consolidated financial statements have measurements.
From the Groups perspective, t Level 1 inputs are quoted prices been prepared under the historical cost IFRS 13 is relevant to the measurement of unadjusted in active markets for identical convention, modied in respect of the available-for-sale financial assets, derivative assets or liabilities that the entity can revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale financial instruments, assets classied as held assess at the measurement date financial assets, derivative financial instruments, for sale and assets held by dened benefit t Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than assets classied as held for sale and assets pension plans, and in relation to impairment quoted prices included in Level 1, that held by dened benefit pension plans.
testing and in accounting for business are observable for the asset or liability combinations.
IFRS 13 was adopted The Groups principal accounting policies are either directly or indirectly prospectively from 1 April 2013 so there set out in Note 2. t Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs was no change in any fair values determined for the asset or liability.
Company financial statements The Company has not adopted IFRS and Use of adjusted measures IAS 1 Revised 2011 Presentation prepares its separate financial statements in Tate & Lyle presents adjusted performance of Financial Statements accordance with applicable law and UK measures including adjusted operating profit, IAS 1 Revised 2011 had no overall impact on Accounting Standards UK GAAP.
The adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings the amount of other comprehensive income, Companys separate financial statements per share that are used for internal performance but requires that items of other comprehensive are set out on pages 135 to 140. analysis and incentive compensation income that may be reclassied to profit or loss arrangements for employees and are presented are presented separately from those that will not Going concern because they provide investors with valuable be reclassied to profit or loss.
For the reasons set out on page 28, the additional information about the performance Directors have adopted the going concern basis Other standards of the business.
For the periods presented, in preparing the Companys and the Groups At the beginning of the year, the Group adopted adjusted performance measures exclude, financial statements.
various minor improvements to accounting where relevant, exceptional items, the standards arising from the IASBs 2009 2011 amortisation of acquired intangible assets, review cycle and Amendments to IFRS 7 net retirement benefit interest and tax on those Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and adjustments.
Adjusted performance measures Financial Liabilities.
reported by the Group are not dened terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.
The Directors do not regard these measures as a substitute for, or superior to, the equivalent measures presented in accordance with IFRS.
82 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information recognised in full where they represent a The consolidated financial statements are 2 Principal accounting policies reduction in the net realisable value of a current presented in pounds sterling which is the Basis of consolidation asset or an impairment loss.
a Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either On consolidation, the results of foreign Business combinations directly or indirectly, by the Company, where operations are translated into pounds sterling A business combination is a transaction or other control is the power to govern the financial and at the average rate of exchange for the period event in which the Group obtains control over operating policies of the entity so as to obtain and their assets and liabilities are translated into a business such that it becomes a subsidiary.
Control generally pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at Business combinations are accounted for exists where the Group owns a shareholding the period-end date.
Currency translation using the acquisition method.
that gives it more than one half of the voting differences arising on consolidation are rights in the entity.
recognised in other comprehensive income Goodwill arising in a business combination and taken to the currency translation reserve.
represents the excess of the sum of the A non-controlling interest in a subsidiary consideration transferred, the amount of any represents the share of the net assets of the In the event that a foreign operation is sold, non-controlling interest in the acquired business subsidiary that is attributable to the equity the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the and, in a business combination achieved in interest in the subsidiary that is not owned income statement is determined after taking stages, the fair value at the acquisition date by the Group.
into account the cumulative currency translation of the Groups previously held equity interest, differences arising on consolidation of the The Groups income and expenses, assets and over the net total of the identiable assets operation subsequent to the adoption of IFRS.
liabilities and cash ows include those of each and liabilities of the acquired business at the of its subsidiaries from the date on which the In the cash ow statement, the cash ows of acquisition date.
Any shortfall is recognised Company obtains control until such time as foreign operations are translated into pounds immediately as a gain in the income statement.
All intra-Group transactions, sterling at the average exchange rate for Consideration transferred represents the sum balances, income and expenses are eliminated theperiod.
of the fair values at the acquisition date of the on consolidation.
assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed Revenue recognition b Joint ventures and equity instruments issued by the Group a Sales of goods and services A joint venture is a contractual arrangement in exchange for control over the acquired Sales comprise the amount receivable in under which the Group and other parties business.
the ordinary course of business, net of value undertake an activity that is subject to joint added and sales taxes, for goods and services Acquisition-related costs are charged to the control, whereby strategic financial and provided.
It comprises the fair value of the income statement in the period in which they operating policy decisions require unanimous consideration received or receivable for the sale are incurred.
consent of the Group and the other parties.
The of goods and services.
Sales are recognised at Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are Identiable assets and liabilities of the acquired the point or points at which the Group has accounted for by proportionate consolidation, business are measured at their fair value at the performed its obligations in connection with whereby the Groups share of the income and acquisition date, except for certain items that the contractual terms of the sales agreement, expenses, assets and liabilities and cash ows are measured in accordance with the relevant primarily at the point of delivering to the of those entities are combined on a line-by-line Group accounting policy, including retirement customer, and in exchange obtains the right basis in the financial statements with those of benefit obligations and deferred tax assets to consideration.
the Company and its subsidiaries.
b Interest income Intra-Group balances and unrealised profits Any non-controlling interest in the acquired Interest income is recognised on a timeor losses on transactions between the Group business is measured either at fair value or proportion basis using the effective interest and joint ventures are normally eliminated at the non-controlling interests proportionate ratemethod.
to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint share of the identiable assets and liabilities c Dividend income venture.
Losses are, however, recognised of the business.
in full where they represent a reduction in the Dividend income is recognised when the right Put options issued by the Group over nonto receive payment is established.
net realisable value of a current asset or an controlling interests are initially recognised impairment loss.
Exceptional items as a liability measured at fair value with a c Associates Exceptional items comprise items of income corresponding charge directly to equity.
An associate is an entity over which the Group and expense, including tax items, that are Subsequently, the liability is measured at has significant inuence.
significant inuence is material in amount and unlikely to recur and amortised cost using the effective interest the power to participate in financial and operating which merit separate disclosure in order to method and changes in its carrying amount policy decisions but not to control or jointly provide an understanding of the Groups are recognised in the income statement.
significant inuence generally underlying financial performance.
Examples of Changes in the Groups ownership interest in a exists where the Group holds more than 20% events giving rise to the disclosure of material subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control and less than 50% of the shareholders voting items of income and expense as exceptional are accounted for within equity.
Associates are accounted for under the items include, but are not limited to, impairment on loss of control is recognised in the income equity method, whereby the Groups share of events, significant business transformation statement.
the profit or loss, other comprehensive income activities, disposals of operations or significant and net assets are shown on one line of the individual assets, litigation claims by or against Foreign currency translation relevant primary financial statements.
the Group and the restructuring of components At entity level, transactions in foreign of the Groups operations.
currencies are translated into the entitys Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups functional currency at the exchange rate ruling interest in the entity are not recognised, except Borrowing costs at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets to the extent that the Group has incurred Borrowing costs directly arising from the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies obligations or made payments on behalf of purchase, construction or production of an are translated at the exchange rate ruling at theassociate.
asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the period-end date.
Unrealised profits or losses on transactions differences arising at entity level are recognised between the Group and its associates are in the income statement.
normally eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Losses are, however, Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 83 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED treated as operating leases with annual rentals 2 Principal accounting policies Property, plant and equipment charged to the income statement, net of any Land and buildings mainly comprise continued incentives granted to the lessee, over the term manufacturing sites and administrative facilities.
Goodwill of the lease with incentives recognised over the Plant and machinery mainly comprises Goodwill arising in a business combination period of the lease at a constant periodic rate.
equipment used in the manufacturing and is recognised as an intangible asset and is operating process.
Assets under the course allocated to the cash-generating unit CGU Impairment of non-financial assets of construction comprise property, plant and or group of CGUs that is expected to benefit Goodwill, other intangible assets and property, equipment which is in the process of being from the synergies of the business combination.
plant and equipment are tested for impairment completed and not ready for use.
whenever events or circumstances indicate that Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for Property, plant and equipment is stated at their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
impairment annually and whenever there are historical cost less accumulated depreciation Additionally, goodwill is subject to an annual events or changes in circumstances that and impairment.
Historical cost includes impairment test.
indicate that its carrying amount may not expenditure that is directly attributable to the berecoverable.
An asset is impaired to the extent that its acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are carrying amount exceeds its recoverable Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised included in the assets carrying amount or amount.
An assets recoverable amount impairment losses.
recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, represents the higher of the assets value in use only when it is probable that future economic Other intangible assets and its fair value less costs to sell.
An assets benets associated with the expenditure will Other intangible assets are stated at cost less value in use represents the present value of the ow to the Group and the cost of the item accumulated amortisation and any recognised future cash ows expected to be derived from can be measured reliably.
All repairs and impairment losses.
All intangible assets continued use of the asset.
Fair value less costs maintenance expenditures are charged to recognised by the Group have nite useful lives.
to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale the income statement during the period in of the asset in an arms length transaction a Acquired in business combinations which they are incurred.
between knowledgeable, willing parties, less An intangible resource acquired in a business Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line the costs of disposal.
combination is recognised as an intangible method to allocate the cost of each asset to its asset if it is separable from the acquired Where it is not possible to estimate the residual value over its useful economic life business or arises from contractual or legal recoverable amount of an individual asset, asfollows: rights.
Acquired intangible assets, for example, the recoverable amount is determined for patents and customer relationships, are Freehold land No depreciation the CGU to which the asset belongs.
An assets amortised on a straight-line basis so as to Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years CGU is the smallest group of assets that charge their cost, which represents their fair Leasehold property Period of the lease includes the asset and generates cash inows value at the date of acquisition, over the periods Bulk liquid storage tanks 12 to 20 years that are largely independent of the cash inows of their expected benefit to the Group, which Plant and machinery 3 to 28 years from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill are in the range three to 15 years.
does not generate cash inows independently Residual values and useful lives are reviewed of other assets and is, therefore, tested for b Other intangibles at each period-end date and adjusted if impairment at the level of the CGU or group appropriate.
An assets carrying amount is Other intangible assets mainly comprise certain of CGUs to which it isallocated.
product development expenditure, marketingwritten down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater related intangibles, computer software costs Value in use is based on estimates of pre-tax and assets under construction relating to the than its estimated recoverable amount.
cash ows discounted at a pre-tax discount rate common global IS IT system.
that reects the risks specic to the CGU to Gains and losses on disposals are determined which the asset belongs.
Costs incurred on the development, by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the design and testing of new or improved Where necessary, impairment of non-financial products are capitalised only when the income statement.
assets other than goodwill is recognised before technical and commercial feasibility of the goodwill is tested for impairment.
When Leased assets product has been proven and prior to the goodwill is tested for impairment and the Leases of property, plant and equipment where product going into full production.
Research carrying amount of the CGU or group of CGUs the Group assumes substantially all the risks and other development expenditures are to which it is allocated exceeds its recoverable and rewards of ownership are classied as charged to the income statement in the amount, the impairment is allocated first to finance leases.
Assets held under finance period in which they are incurred.
reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair then pro-rata to the other non-financial assets Other intangibles include marketing-related value of the leased asset and the present belonging to the CGU or group of CGUs on the intangibles relating to the SPLENDA Sucralose value of the minimum lease payments.
The basis of their respective carrying amounts.
alliance with McNeil Nutritionals, LLC.
corresponding leasing commitments, net Impairment losses are recognised in the income of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
Other intangible assets are amortised on a statement.
Impairment losses recognised in straight-line basis so as to charge their cost Leasing payments are analysed between capital previous periods for assets other than goodwill over the periods of their expected benefit to the and interest components so that the interest are reversed if there has been a change in the Group, which are in the range three to ten years.
element is charged to the income statement estimates used to determine the assets over the period of the lease at a constant Capitalised costs in respect of the global IS IT recoverable amount, but only to the extent periodic rate of interest on the remaining system will be amortised once the system is that the carrying amount of the asset does balance of the liability outstanding.
deployed into the Groups businesses.
not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment been recognised in previous Depreciation on assets held under finance periods.
Impairment losses recognised in leases is charged to the income statement, respect of goodwill cannot be reversed.
and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life.
All other leases are 84 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, 2 Principal accounting policies Hedge accounting the assets are approximated at cost.
For a hedging relationship to qualify for hedge continued Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an accounting, it must be documented at inception Inventories asset are recycled through the income together with the Groups risk management Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and statement when the asset is disposed or objective and strategy for initiating the hedge net realisable value with the exception of certain impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline and it must both be expected to be highly items of merchandisable agricultural commodities in the fair value of a security below its cost is effective in offsetting the changes in cash ows which are stated at market value, in line with considered as an indicator that the securities or fair value attributed to the hedged risk and regional industry accountingpractices.
Impairments are recognised actually be highly effective in doing so.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where in the income statement.
a Cash ow hedges applicable, direct labour costs and those e Borrowings Hedging relationships are classied as cash overheads that have been incurred in bringing Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, ow hedges where the hedging instrument the inventories to their present location and net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings hedges exposure to variability in cash ows condition.
Cost is calculated using the first in are subsequently measured at amortised cost that is attributable either to a particular risk first out or weighted average cost methods, using the effective interest rate method, associated with a recognised asset or liability appropriate to the materials and production whereby any difference between the proceeds such as interest payments on variable rate processes involved.
Net realisable value net of transaction costs and the initial fair value debt, a highly probable forecast transaction represents the estimated selling price less all is recognised in the income statement over such as commodity purchases or the foreign estimated costs to completion and costs to be the period of the borrowings.
As explained currency risk in a rm commitment such as the incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
under Hedge accounting below, the carrying purchase of an item of equipment.
Provisions are made for any slow moving, amount of a borrowing may be subject Where a hedging relationship is classied as a obsolete or defective inventories.
to adjustment where it is a hedged liability cash ow hedge, to the extent that the hedge is in a fair value hedge.
Financial instruments effective, changes in the fair value of the a Trade receivables Borrowings are classied as current liabilities hedging instrument are recognised in other Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair unless the Group has an unconditional right to comprehensive income rather than in the value and subsequently measured at amortised defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 income statement.
When the hedged item cost using the effective interest method, less months after period-end date.
affects the income statement, the cumulative provision for impairment.
A provision for fair value gain or loss recognised in other Dividends on preference shares are recognised impairment of trade receivables is established comprehensive income is transferred to the in the income statement as interest expense.
when there is objective evidence that the income statement.
When a hedged rm Group will not be able to collect all amounts f Derivative financial instruments commitment results in the recognition of a due according to the original terms of the The Group uses derivative financial instruments non-current asset, the initial carrying amount receivables.
significant financial difficulties to reduce its exposure to commodity price, of the asset is adjusted for the cumulative fair of the debtor, probability that the debtor will currency exchange rate and interest rate value gain or loss.
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, movements.
The Group does not hold or issue If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or and default or delinquency in payments are derivatives for speculative purposes.
if the hedging relationship no longer meets the considered indicators that the trade receivable All derivative financial instruments held by the conditions for hedge accounting, the cumulative is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the Group are recognised as assets or liabilities fair value gain or loss remains in equity until the difference between the assets carrying amount measured at their fair values at the period-end forecast transaction is recognised in the income and the present value of estimated future cash date.
As explained under Hedge accounting statement.
If a hedged forecast transaction is ows, discounted at the original effective below, unless and to the extent that a derivative no longer expected to occur, the cumulative fair interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is in a designated and effective cash ow or net value gain or loss is immediately transferred to is reduced through the use of an allowance investment hedging relationship, fair value gains the income statement.
account, and the amount of the loss is and losses on derivatives are recognised in the recognised in the income statement within b Net investment hedges income statement.
When a trade receivable A net investment hedge is the hedge of the is uncollectable, it is written off against the Derivative financial instruments that are not in a currency exposure on the retranslation of the allowance account for trade receivables.
designated hedging relationship are classied Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously as held for trading.
Net investment hedges are accounted for written off are credited against operating g Embedded derivatives similarly to cash ow hedges.
Changes in the expenses in the income statement.
Where an embedded derivative is not closely fair value of the hedging instrument are, to the b Trade payables related to the host contract and where the host extent that the hedge is effective, recognised Non-current and current trade payables are contract itself is not already recognised at fair in other comprehensive income.
recognised initially at fair value and value, movements in the fair value of the In the event that the foreign operation is subsequently measured at amortised cost embedded derivative are separated from the disposed of, the cumulative fair value gain or using the effective interest rate method.
associated transaction and, except where the loss recognised in other comprehensive income embedded derivative is designated as a cash c Cash and cash equivalents is transferred to the income statement where it ow hedging instrument, recognised in the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in is included in the gain or loss on disposal of the income statement.
hand, deposits held at call with banks and other foreign operation.
short-term highly liquid investments with original h Offsetting financial instruments maturities of three months or less and, for the Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset purposes of the cash ow statement only, bank and the net amount presented in the statement overdrafts where the legal right of offset exists.
of financial position where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised d Available-for-sale financial assets amounts and there is an intention to settle Equity instruments held by the Group and on a net basis or realise the asset and settle designated as available-for-sale are carried the liability simultaneously.
at fair value, with movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 85 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED financial statements and its tax base used value of the policy is deemed to be equivalent 2 Principal accounting policies in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred to the present value of the related benefit continued tax is accounted for using the liability method, obligations.
A deficit or surplus is recognised Hedge accounting whereby deferred tax liabilities are generally on each plan which represents the difference c Fair value hedges recognised for all taxable temporary differences between the present value of the benefit Hedging relationships are classied as fair value and deferred tax assets are recognised to the obligation and the fair value of the plan assets.
hedges where the hedging instrument hedges extent that it is probable that taxable profits will Where a plan is in surplus, the surplus the exposure to changes in the fair value of a be available in the foreseeable future against recognised is limited to the present value recognised asset or liability that is attributable which deductible temporary differences can of any amounts that the Group expects to to a particular risk such as the fair value of xed beutilised.
recover by way of refunds or a reduction in rate debt.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not Where the hedging relationship is classied recognised if the temporary differences arise The dened benefit cost recognised in the as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount from the initial recognition of goodwill or from income statement comprises the current of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted the initial recognition of other assets and service cost, any past service cost and the by the change in its fair value attributable liabilities in a transaction other than a business net interest on the deficit or surplus.
Gains to the hedged risk and the resulting gain combination that affects neither accounting or losses on curtailments or settlements of or loss is recognised in the income statement profit nor taxable profit.
the plans are also recognised in the income where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, statement in the period in which the it offsets the fair value gain or loss on the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable curtailment or settlement occurs.
temporary differences arising on investments in foreign subsidiaries and associates, and Remeasurements of the deficit or surplus are Provisions interests in joint ventures, except where the recognised in other comprehensive income.
A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or Group is able to control the reversal of the amount that is recognised when the Group has Current service cost represents the increase in temporary difference and it is probable that it the present value of the benefit obligation due a present obligation legal or constructive as a will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
result of a past event, it is more likely than not to benets accrued during the period, less Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or employee contributions.
Past service cost that a payment will be required to settle the substantively enacted rates that are expected represents the change in the present value of obligation and the amount can be to apply when the asset is recovered or the the benefit obligation that arises from benefit estimatedreliably.
changes that are applied retrospectively to Where the effect is material, the expected future benets accrued in previous years.
Any past payments are discounted using a pre-tax discount Current tax assets and liabilities are offset service cost is recognised in full in the period when there is a legally enforceable right to set rate that reects current market assessments of in which the benefit changes are made.
the time value of money and, where appropriate, off the amounts and management intends to settle on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and Net interest on the deficit or surplus is the risks specic to the liability.
The unwinding of any discount is recognised in the income liabilities are offset when they relate to income calculated by applying the discount rate that is taxes levied by the same taxation authority and used in measuring the present value of the statement within finance expense.
the Group intends to settle its current tax assets benefit obligation to the deficit or surplus.
Provision is made for restructuring costs and liabilities on a net basis.
Plan administration costs incurred by the Group when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring Current and deferred tax is recognised in are also recognised in the income statement.
has been determined and the plan has been the income statement unless it relates to an communicated to those affected by it.
Remeasurements comprise differences item that is recognised in the same or a different Gains from the expected disposal of assets between the actual return on plan assets less period outside the income statement, in which are not taken into account in measuring asset management expenses and the interest case it too is recognised outside the income restructuring provisions.
on the plan assets and actuarial gains and statement, either in other comprehensive Provisions are not recognised for future losses.
Actuarial gains and losses represent the income or directly in equity.
effect of changes in the actuarial assumptions operating losses.
made in measuring the present value of the Retirement benets Provisions are recognised for onerous contracts benefit obligation and experience differences As described in Note 30, the Group operates to the extent that the benets expected to be between those assumptions and actual pension plans in most of the countries in which derived from a contract are lower than the outcomes.
Actuarial gains and losses are it operates.
Dened benefit pension plans are unavoidable cost to the Group of meeting its recognised in full in the period in which principally in the UK and the US and, until obligations under the contract.
December 2013, in the Netherlands, and the Group operates a number of dened Income taxes b Dened contribution plans Current tax is the amount of tax payable or contribution pension plans.
Contributions made by the Group to dened recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or contribution pension schemes are recognised The Group also operates dened benefit loss for the period.
Taxable profit differs from in the income statement in the period in which retirement medical plans in theUS.
accounting profit because it excludes income they falldue.
and expenses that are recognised in the period a Dened benefit plans for accounting purposes but are either not A valuation of each of the dened benefit plans taxable or not deductible for tax purposes or for accounting purposes is carried out annually are taxable or deductible in earlier or at 31 March by independent qualied actuaries.
Current tax is calculated benefit obligations are measured using the using tax rates that have been enacted or projected unit credit method and are substantively enacted at the period-end date.
discounted using the market yields on high quality corporate bonds denominated in the Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or same currency as, and of similar duration to, the recoverable on temporary differences between benefit obligations.
Plan assets are measured at the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the their fair value at the period-end date.
Where a plan holds a qualifying insurance policy, the fair 86 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information the lower of their carrying amount when they 2 Principal accounting policies b Financial instruments were classied as held for sale and their fair IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will eventually continued value less costs to sell.
replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Share-based incentives Classication and Measurement.
IFRS 9 is As described in Note 26, the Company Accounting standards issued but not being issued in stages.
While the sections operates share-based compensation plans yet adopted dealing with the classication and measurement under which it grants awards over its ordinary A number of new or revised accounting of financial instruments have been issued, the shares to its own employees and to those of its standards have been issued that are relevant to IASB is currently revisiting certain aspects of subsidiaries.
All of the awards granted under the Group but had not been adopted at them.
The section of the standard dealing with the existing plans are classied as equity-settled 31 March 2014.
With the exception of IFRS 11 the impairment of financial assets is still under awards.
The Group recognises a compensation Joint Arrangements, the Directors do not expect development.
During the year, the IASB issued expense that is based on the fair value of the that these standards will have a material impact the section dealing with hedge accounting that awards measured at the grant date using the on the Groups reported results, cash ows or sets out a new hedge accounting model that is Black-Scholes option pricing formula.
intended to be more closely aligned with how is not subsequently remeasured unless relevant entities undertake risk management activities a Consolidation, joint arrangements conditions attaching to the award are modied.
when hedging financial and non-financial and associates Fair value reects any market performance exposures.
With effect from 1 April 2014, the Group conditions and all non-vesting conditions.
adopted five related standards dealing In February 2014, the IASB tentatively decided Adjustments are made to the compensation with consolidation, joint arrangements to defer the effective date of IFRS 9 and it is not expense to reect actual and expected and associates.
now expected to become mandatory for the forfeitures due to failure to satisfy service Group until the year ending 31 March 2019 conditions or non-market performance IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements though this will be subject to its endorsement conditions.
IFRS 10 replaces the parts of the existing for use in the European Union.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Generally, the resulting compensation expense Statements that deal with consolidated financial c Other pronouncements is recognised in the income statement on statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special With effect from 1 April 2014, the Group a straight-line basis over the vesting period and Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single adopted Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of a corresponding credit is recognised in equity.
control model for consolidation that applies to Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge In the event of the cancellation of an award, all entities, including special purpose entities.
Accounting, which claries that, provided whether by the Group or a participating certain conditions are met, hedge accounting employee, the compensation expense IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements need not be discontinued where a hedging that would have been recognised over the IFRS 11 will change signicantly the accounting derivative is novated.
remainder of the vesting period is recognised for the Groups interests in joint ventures in the immediately in the income statement.
Also with effect from 1 April 2014, the Group adopted Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting At present, the Groups interests in joint Dividends Financial Assets and Liabilities, which claries ventures are accounted for by proportionate Dividends on the Companys ordinary the conditions that must be met in order to set consolidation.
IFRS 11 prohibits the use of shares are recognised when they have been off financial assets and financial liabilities, and proportionate consolidation and requires that appropriately authorised and are no longer at Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount joint ventures are accounted for using the equity the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
While these changes will dividends are recognised when they are paid have no net impact on the Groups results or and final dividends are recognised when they Subject to its endorsement for use in the financial position, they will affect many of the are declared following approval by shareholders European Union, with effect from 1 April 2015, individual line items in the consolidated financial at the Companys AGM.
Dividends are the Group will adopt Amendments to IAS 19 statements.
In the 2015 financial year, recognised as an appropriation of Dened benefit Plans: Employee Contributions, comparative amounts for the 2014 financial year shareholdersequity.
which claries how employee contributions that will be restated on a consistent basis.
An are linked to service should be attributed to Own shares explanation and analysis of the effect of IFRS 11 periods of service and when such contributions Own shares represent the Companys ordinary is presented in Note 44. may be treated as a reduction in the service shares that are held by the Company in treasury cost that is recognised in the income statement.
IAS 27 Revised 2011 Separate Financial or by a sponsored Employee benefit Trust that Statements are used to satisfy awards made under the Also with effect from 1 April 2015, the Group IAS 27 was revised such that it now deals only Companys share-based incentive plans.
When will adopt various minor improvements to with the requirements for separate financial own shares are acquired, the cost of purchase accounting standards arising from the IASBs statements because the requirements for in the market is deducted from equity.
consolidated financial statements are now losses on the subsequent transfer or sale of contained in IFRS 10. own shares are also recognised in equity.
IAS 28 Revised 2011 Investments in Associates Assets held for sale and Joint Ventures An asset or group of assets is classied as held IAS 28 was revised as a consequence of the for sale if its carrying amount will be principally issuance of IFRS 11 in order to set out the recovered through a sale transaction rather than requirements for the application of the equity through continuing use in the business, it is method when accounting for joint ventures.
available for immediate sale in its present condition and management has committed to, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset which, IFRS 12 is a new and comprehensive standard when initiated, was expected to result in a that prescribes disclosure requirements for all completed sale within 12 months.
Assets that forms of interests in other entities, including joint are classied as held for sale are measured at ventures and associates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 87 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED and interest rates.
Where practicable, the Group 3 Critical accounting estimates Impairment of assets uses hedge accounting to mitigate the impact Asset impairments have the potential to and judgements of changes in the fair value of its hedging In order to prepare these consolidated financial signicantly impact operating profit.
In order instruments on the income statement, but the to determine whether impairments are required statements in accordance with the accounting Groups results may be affected by these fair policies set out in Note 2, management has the Group estimates the recoverable amount value changes where hedge accounting cannot of the asset.
This calculation is usually based used estimates and judgements to establish the be applied or due to hedge ineffectiveness.
amounts at which certain items are recorded.
on projecting future cash ows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to incorporate Critical accounting estimates and judgements Retirement benets are those that have the greatest impact on the expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount The Group operates dened benefit pension factor is applied to obtain a current value financial statements and require the most plans in the UK and the US and unfunded difficult, subjective and complex judgements value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell retirement medical plans in the US.
Generally, a of an asset is used if this results in an amount about matters that are inherently uncertain.
deficit or surplus is recognised on each plan Estimates are based on factors including in excess of value in use.
which represents the difference between the historical experience and expectations of Estimated future cash ows for impairment present value of the benefit obligation and the future events that management believe to be calculations are based on managements fair value of the plan assets any surplus may be reasonable.
However, given the judgemental expectations of future volumes and margins restricted in certain circumstances.
nature of such estimates, actual results could based on plans and best estimates of the be different from the assumptions used.
The At 31 March 2014, the present value of the productivity of the assets in their current critical accounting estimates and judgements benefit obligations on the plans was condition.
Future cash ows therefore exclude are set out below.
1,525 million 2013 1,672 million, including benets from major expansion projects 54 million 2013 80 million in respect of the requiring future capital expenditure where Taxation unfunded medical plans.
The present value of that expenditure has not been approved at The Group operates in a large number of tax the benefit obligations is based on actuarial the period-end date.
Tax regulations estimates of the future benets that will be generally are complex and in some jurisdictions payable to the members of the plans.
As such, Future cash ows are discounted using a agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities discount rate based on the Groups weighted the benefit obligations are based on a number can take several years.
Consequently, at the of assumptions, changes to which could have a average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate period-end date, tax liabilities and assets are for circumstances specic to the asset being material impact on the reported amounts.
based on managements best estimate of the tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is With regard to the pension plans, the present future amounts that will be settled.
While the impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity value of the benefit obligations is most sensitive Group aims to ensure that the estimates returns and marketand country-related risks.
to assumed life expectancies, expected future recorded are accurate, the actual amounts The Groups weighted average cost of capital price ination rates and the discount rate could be different from those expected.
is reviewed on an annual basis.
applied to the benefit obligations.
At Deferred tax assets mainly arise from asset If the cash ow or discount rate assumptions 31 March 2014, an increase of one year in life impairments and retirement benefit obligations were to change because of market conditions, expectancy would have increased the that the Group expects to recover at some time the level of impairment could be different obligations by 68 million, an increase in future in the future and by their nature the amounts and could result in the asset impairment price ination of 50 basis points would have recorded are therefore dependent on being increased or reversed, in part or in full, increased the obligations by 75 million and a managements judgement about future events.
Goodwill impairment is reduction in the discount rate of 100 basis neverreversed.
points would have increased the obligations Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 29. by 255 million.
Sensitivities are performed around the Derivatives and hedge accounting discount rate and operating profit growth At 31 March 2014, the assets held by the The Group uses derivative financial instruments which are considered the critical assumptions pension plans amounted to 1,305 million to reduce its exposure to commodity price, in the review.
2013 1,407 million, of which 346 million currency exchange rate and interest rate 2013 275 million comprised qualifying movements.
Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. insurance policies.
Plan assets are measured at In particular, the Group uses corn and other their fair value at the period-end date.
The fair Provisions commodity contracts to manage and hedge its values of qualifying insurance policies held by The Group recognises a provision where corn book in the US.
The US corn book is the plans are deemed to be equivalent to the a legal or constructive obligation exists at comprised of the commodity contracts, present value of the related benefit obligations.
the period-end date and a reliable estimate inventory and contracts for the purchase and Otherwise, the carrying amounts of the plan can be made of the likely outcome.
Where sale of corn and co-products, some elements of assets are affected more by market risks, appropriate, future cash outows that are which are expected to mature in more than 12 including interest rate risk, and other risks than expected to arise over a number of years are months time, and is measured at fair value at by assumptions made in estimating the fair discounted to a present value using a relevant each period-end date.
The valuation of the corn values of unquoted assets.
book, which is underpinned by a number of Whilst changes in the assumptions used in At 31 March 2014, provisions included amounts judgements, has a material impact on the determining the present value of the benefit for insurance claims payable by the Groups reported results of the Group.
obligations will have an impact on the Groups reinsurance company, legal matters, employee At 31 March 2014, the Group recognised income statement through their effect on the termination and other restructuring costs.
derivative assets of 102 million including service cost and the net interest on the deficit or Although provisions are reviewed on a regular commodity pricing contracts of 65 million and surplus in the plans, most of the impact of such basis and adjusted for managements best derivative liabilities of 52 million including changes, together with uctuations in the actual current estimates, the judgemental nature of commodity pricing contracts of 45 million.
The return on the plan assets, will be reected in these items means that future amounts settled fair value of derivatives continually changes in other comprehensive income.
may be different from those provided.
response to changes in prevailing market Full details of the assumptions made, which are conditions affecting future corn and other Further details are set out in Note 31. based on advice from the Groups actuaries, commodity prices, currency exchange rates are set out in Note 30.
88 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 4 Segment information Segment information is presented in the financial statements on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Board for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Continuing operations comprise two operating segments: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Central, which comprises central costs including head ofce, treasury and reinsurance activities, does not meet the denition of an operating segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments but no sub-total is shown for the Groups operating segments in the tables below so as to be consistent with the presentation of segment information to the Board.
The Board uses adjusted operating profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before specic items that are considered to hinder comparison of the trading performance of the Groups businesses either year-on-year or with other businesses.
During the periods presented, the items excluded from operating profit in arriving at adjusted operating profit were the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board but it does receive segmental analysis of net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
Accordingly, the amounts presented for segment assets and segment liabilities in the tables below represent those assets and liabilities that comprise elements of net working capital.
Analysis by business segment Continuing operations Speciality Discontinued Food Bulk operations Total Ingredients Ingredients Central Total Note 12 operations Notes m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2014 Segment sales External sales Note a 983 2 164 3 147 3 147 Segment results Adjusted operating profit loss 213 172 36 349 349 Adjusting items: Exceptional items 7 14 14 14 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 10 10 10 Operating profit loss 203 172 50 325 325 Finance income 10 2 2 Finance expense 10 37 37 profit before tax 290 290 Other segment information Capital investments Note b 93 66 34 193 193 Depreciation 16 38 55 4 97 97 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 1821 21 21 Share-based payments 26 2158 8 At 31 March 2014 Segment assets Working capital items 242 447 44 733 733 Other assets 1 794 Total assets 2 527 Segment liabilities Working capital items 94 181 42 317 317 Other liabilities 1 160 Total liabilities 1 477 Net working capital 148 266 2416 416 a T he Groups internal structure is such that there are no inter-segment sales.
b Capital investments comprise the cost of acquisition of businesses and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 89 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 4 Segment information continued Continuing operations Speciality Discontinued Food Bulk operations Total Ingredients Ingredients Central Total Note 12 operations Notes m m m m m m Restated Year ended 31 March 2013 Segment sales External sales Note a 947 2 309 3 256 10 3 266 Segment results Adjusted operating profit loss 213 182 39 356 8 348 Adjusting items: Exceptional items 7 3 8 17 12 26 14 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 10 10 10 Operating profit loss 200 190 56 334 18 352 Finance income 10 1 1 Finance expense 10 34 34 profit before tax 301 18 319 Other segment information Capital investments Note b 43 66 34 143 143 Depreciation 16 36 52 3 91 91 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 15 1 1 17 17 Share-based payments 26 3 3 7 13 13 At 31 March 2013 Segment assets Working capital items 304 566 23 893 3 896 Other assets 1 891 Total assets 2 787 Segment liabilities Working capital items 115 223 46 384 1 385 Other liabilities 1 366 Total liabilities 1 751 Net working capital 189 343 23 509 2 511 Restated for the adoption of IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benefits, which increased Central costs by 2 million and increased net finance expense by 6 million see Note 43.
Geographical information The United Kingdom is the home country of the Parent Company.
Sales from continuing operations and non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets in the principal territories are as follows: Sales by destination Sales by origin Location of non-current assets Year ended 31 March Year ended 31 March At 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m United Kingdom 64 63 22 23 42 38 United States 1 858 1 965 2 282 2 404 763 829 Other European countries 520 502 546 528 321 309 Rest of world 705 726 297 301 135 147 Total 3 147 3 256 3 147 3 256 1 261 1 323 Concentration of revenue During 2014, one customer contributed 11% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations 2013 none over 10%.
90 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 5 Sales from continuing operations Analysis of sales by category: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 Note m m Sales of goods excluding share of sales of joint ventures 2 707 2 780 Share of sales of joint ventures 17 440 476 Total 3 147 3 256 6 Operating profit Analysis of operating expenses income by nature: Restated Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Notes m m m m External sales 5,12 3 147 3 256 10 Operating expenses income Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 1 961 2 066 6 Staff costs of which 129 million 2013 125 million was included in cost of sales 9 245 256 Gain on settlement of dened benefit pension plan 30 4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets of which 90 million 2013 86 million was included in cost of sales 16 92 87 leased assets included in cost of sales 16 5 4 Exceptional items 7 14 12 26 Amortisation of intangible assets: acquired intangible assets 15 10 10 other intangible assets 15 11 7 Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 17 19 Research and development expenditure 33 32 Decrease increase in allowance for doubtful debts 23 1 12 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 1 1 Other operating expenses 442 429 11 Total operating expenses 2 822 2 922 8 Operating profit 325 334 18 See Note 43.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 91 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 7 Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Continuing operations Business transformation costs 14 20 Gain on disposal of interest in joint venture Sucromiles 8 14 12 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of businesses Vietnam Sugar 21 Gain on disposal of assets Molasses 5 26 Total exceptional expense income before tax 14 14 Continuing operations During the year, the Group incurred further business transformation costs on the implementation of a common global IS IT platform and, in the prior year, also on the implementation of the global Shared Services Centre, of which 14 million 2013 18 million did not meet the criteria to be capitalised.
During the prior year, the Group also incurred costs of 2 million to complete the relocation of employees and restructuring associated with establishing the Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
During the prior year, the Group completed the disposal of its share in Sucromiles SA, its Colombian citric acid joint venture, on which it recognised a gain of 8 million including cumulative currency translation gains transferred from other comprehensive income.
Exceptional items are analysed by operating segment in Note 4. profit for the year from continuing operations includes an income tax credit of 9 million 2013 credit of 5 million in relation to exceptional items see Note 11.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
Discontinued operations During the year, the Group recognised an exceptional income tax credit of 28 million in discontinued operations see Note 12.
During the prior year, the Group completed the sale of its Vietnam Sugar operations on which it recognised a gain of 21 million including cumulative currency translation gains transferred from other comprehensive income.
Also during the prior year, the Group completed the sale of land and buildings of its former Molasses business on which it recognised a gain of 5 million.
Exceptional items recognised during the prior year had no impact on the income tax expense of discontinued operations.
8 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures 1.3 1.2 audit-related services 0.3 tax advisory services 0.1 2.1 2.2 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Total 2.2 2.3 Audit-related services in the prior year related to review work performed on the controls congured within the common global IS IT platform.
92 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 9 Staff costs Staff costs were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Notes m m m m Wages and salaries 209 210 Social security costs 18 22 Other pension costs: dened benefit pension schemes 30 5 4 dened contribution pension schemes 30 3 4 Retirement medical benets 30 2 3 Share-based payments 26 8 13 Total 245 256 The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, excluding associates employees and including the Groups proportionate share of people employed by joint ventures, is set out below.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, this includes part-time employees: Year ended 31 March By business segment 2014 2013 Continuing operations Speciality Food Ingredients 1 802 1 731 Bulk Ingredients 2 233 2 187 Central 432 404 4 467 4 322 Discontinued operations 60 Total 4 467 4 382 At 31 March 2014, the Group employed 4,523 2013 4,326 people all in continuing operations.
Central includes shared service employees who perform activities for the whole Group, including the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredientssegments.
Key management compensation Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets 5 5 Retirement benets 1 1 Share-based payments 4 6 Total 10 12 Key management is represented by the Group Executive Committee and the Companys directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 71.
Members of the Group Executive Committee are identied on page 39.
The aggregate emoluments of directors in respect of qualifying services to the Company were 2 million 2013 2 million.
As determined in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the aggregate gains made by the directors on the exercise of share options were 4 million 2013 1 million.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 93 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 10 Finance income and finance expense Year ended 31 March Restated 2014 2013 Notes m m Finance income Interest receivable 2 1 Total finance income 2 1 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 28 28 Fair value hedges: fair value loss on interest rate derivatives 20 20 fair value adjustment of hedged borrowings 20 20 1 Fair value loss on derivatives not designated as hedges 1 Finance lease interest 1 2 Net retirement benefit interest 30 8 4 Total finance expense 37 34 Net finance expense 35 33 See Note 43.
Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs of 2 million 2013 2 million capitalised within intangible assets at a capitalisation rate of 3.9% 2013 3.8%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2013 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Finance income and finance expense relate wholly to continuing operations.
11 Income tax expense Analysis of charge for the year Year ended 31 March Restated 2014 2013 Continuing operations Note m m Current tax: UK overseas 43 23 43 23 Deferred tax: 29 Charge for the year 7 27 Adjustments in respect of previous years 5 4 Income tax expense 45 46 See Note 43. profit for the year from continuing operations reected an income tax expense of 45 million 2013 expense of 46 million, including an income tax credit of 9 million 2013 credit of 5 million in respect of exceptional items see Note 7.
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years totalled a credit of 5 million 2013 credit of 4 million.
The amount recognised in the current year reects non-recurring tax credits in relation to prior years in the US, following a detailed review of underlying tax information.
The amount recognised in the 2013 financial year principally related to the settlement of prior year tax in a number of jurisdictions.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom reduced from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and will reduce further to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2014 2013 m m profit before tax 290 301 Corporation tax charge thereon at 23% 2013 24% 67 72 Adjusted for the effects of: items not taxable 2 5 losses not recognised 3 9 adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 5 4 different tax rates applied on overseas earnings 18 26 Total 45 46 94 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 11 Income tax expense continued The Groups effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and losses and reects a combination of higher tax rates in certain jurisdictions such as the US, nil effective tax rates in the UK due to brought forward tax losses and in Singapore due to having pioneer status awarded by the government in 2008 and rates that lie somewhere in between, for example, in certain eastern European countries.
Our tax rate is favourably affected by our internal nancing which involves borrowing by our US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable in the US.
The Groups effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the income tax expense as a proportion of profit before tax of 290 million 2013 301 million, was 15.6% 2013 15.3%.
This compares with the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% 2013 24%.
The Groups adjusted effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the adjusted income tax expense of 60 million 2013 59 million as a proportion of adjusted profit before tax of 322 million 2013 327 million was 18.5% 2013 18.0%.
Discontinued operations profit for the year from discontinued operations reected an exceptional income tax credit of 28 million 2013 nil as explained in Note 12.
Tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Retirement benefit obligations 22 6 Cash ow hedges 1 Tax losses 5 Tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 22 12 Deferred tax 29 22 12 Tax on items recognised directly in equity Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current tax credit on share-based payments 1 3 Deferred tax charge on share-based payments 1 1 Total 2 See Note 43.
12 Discontinued operations During the year, the Group recognised a non-cash exceptional income tax credit of 28 million following the favourable resolution of outstanding tax matters associated with the starch facilities which formed part of the Groups former Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe segment.
During the prior year, the Group completed the sale of its Vietnam Sugar operations and the disposal of land and buildings of its former Molasses business, which related to the Groups former Sugars segment, on which it recognised an exceptional gain before tax of 26 million.
Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 Vietnam Sugar Other Total Note m m m m Sales 91 10 Adjusted operating profit loss 3 11 8 Exceptional items 7 21 5 26 Operating profit loss 24 6 18 profit loss before tax 24 6 18 Income tax credit 7 28 profit loss for the year 28 24 6 18 Non-controlling interests 1 1 profit loss attributable to owners of the Company 28 23 6 17 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 95 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 13 Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding an average of 3.5 million shares 2013 3.5 million shares held by the Company or the Employee benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Restated Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total profit attributable to owners of the Company million 245 28 273 255 17 272 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 464.1 464.1 464.1 464.2 464.2 464.2 Basic earnings per share 52.8p 6.0p 58.8p 54.9p 3.7p 58.6p Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares arise from awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Where the vesting of these awards is contingent on satisfying a service or performance condition, the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is calculated based on the status of the condition at the end of the period.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares are actually dilutive only when the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the period exceeds their exercise price options or issue price other awards.
The greater any such excess, the greater the dilutive effect.
The average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 788p 2013 720p.
The dilutive effect of share-based incentives was 6.4 million shares 2013 9.3 million shares.
Restated Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total profit attributable to owners of the Company million 245 28 273 255 17 272 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares millions 470.5 470.5 470.5 473.5 473.5 473.5 Diluted earnings per share 52.1p 5.9p 58.0p 53.8p 3.6p 57.4p Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share measures are calculated based on profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to owners of the Company before adjusting items as follows: Year ended 31 March Restated 2014 2013 Continuing operations Notes m m profit attributable to owners of the Company 245 255 Adjusting items: exceptional items 7 14 12 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 15 10 10 net retirement benefit interest 10 8 4 tax effect of the above adjustments 15 13 Adjusted earnings 262 268 Adjusted basic earnings per share 56.5p 57.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 55.7p 56.6p See Note 43.
96 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 14 Dividends on ordinary shares Dividends on ordinary shares in respect of the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 pence pence Per ordinary share: interim dividend paid 7.8 7.4 final dividend proposed 19.8 18.8 Total dividend 27.6 26.2 The Directors propose a final dividend for the financial year of 19.8p per ordinary share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 1August 2014 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 27 June 2014.
Dividends on ordinary shares paid in the year: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Final dividend paid relating to the prior year 88 83 Interim dividend paid relating to the year 36 34 Total dividend paid 124 117 Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 March 2014, the final dividend for the financial year is expected to amount to 92 million.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 97 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 15 Goodwill and other intangible assets Patents and other Other acquired Other intellectual intangible Total acquired intangible Goodwill property assets intangible assets assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2013 217 34 119 370 116 486 Subsidiaries acquired 10 5 15 15 Additions at cost 57 57 Currency translation differences 11 5 16 7 23 At 31 March 2014 216 39 114 369 166 535 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2013 28689634 130 Amortisation charge 37 10 11 21 Currency translation differences 3 3 2 5 At 31 March 2014 31 72 103 43 146 Net book value at 31 March 2014 216 8 42 266 123 389 Cost At 1 April 2012 217 33 116 366 70 436 Additions at cost 1 1 43 44 Currency translation differences 3336 At 31 March 2013 217 34 119 370 116 486 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2012 27 57 84 27 111 Amortisation charge 1 9 10 7 17 Currency translation differences 2 2 2 At 31 March 2013 28 68 96 34 130 Net book value at 31 March 2013 217 6 51 274 82 356 a Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Allocated by geographical area United States 55 60 Europe 83 85 138 145 Allocated by business segment Speciality Food Ingredients 77 71 Bulk Ingredients 1 1 78 72 Total 216 217 i Impairment tests carried out during the year Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment at the level of the cash-generating unit CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
Tate & Lyle is principally managed as an integrated network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants servicing both the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
Goodwill is therefore tested for impairment on a geographical basis, except where it can be allocated to a specic CGU or group of CGUs.
A description of the impairment tests conducted in relation to the most significant goodwill amounts are set out below.
In each case, the recoverable amount was calculated based on value in use.
Value in use was calculated based on budgets and plans covering the next five years that have been approved by the Board.
Cash ows were projected during the five-year period based on budgeted gross margin and managements expectations of market developments.
Beyond the five-year plan, cash ows were assumed to grow at the long-term growth rate for the relevant geographical markets based on forecasts included in industry reports.
Cash ows were discounted using pre-tax rates that are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, to reect differences between the risk prole of the geographical areas or CGUs concerned and that of the Group as a whole.
United States Goodwill allocated to the United States relates to the Staley acquisition in 1988.
Cash ows beyond the five-year plan were assumed to grow at 2% per annum in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rate for this geographic market.
Cash ows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 10.1% 2013 10.1%.
significant headroom exists and management concluded that no impairment is required.
98 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 15 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Europe Goodwill allocated to Europe relates to the acquisition in 2000 of the minority of 34% of shares of the former Amylum business.
Speciality Food Ingredients Goodwill allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 61 million 2013 63 million that relates to the acquisition of G. C. Hahn and Company in June 2007 and that of Cesalpinia Foods in December 2005.
As these businesses are integrated for operating purposes, they are tested for impairment as one CGU.
Cash ows beyond the five-year plan were assumed to grow at 2% per annum in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rate for the geographic markets in which these businesses operate.
Management concluded that no impairment is required.
ii Possibility of impairment in the near future Management considers that there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests that would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include capitalised development costs with a carrying amount of 77 million 2013 47 million relating to the common global IS IT platform, of which 51 million 2013 20 million is under construction and will not be amortised until it is deployed into the business.
In May 2014, the system was successfully deployed across our European operations and we remain on track to implement it in the US and Singapore by the end of the summer.
Management considers that the costs capitalised to date are fully recoverable by way of incremental benets over the systems useful life of seven years.
Additions to other intangible assets during the year included a marketing-related intangible of 10 million relating to the establishment of a renewed SPLENDA Sucralose alliance with McNeil Nutritionals, LLC.
and capitalised borrowing costs of 2 million 2013 2 million.
16 Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and course of buildings machinery construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2013 494 2 108 32 2 634 Additions at cost 18 16 80 114 Subsidiaries acquired 12 3 Transfers on completion 11 75 86 Disposals and write-offs 32 5 37 Currency translation differences 41 182 223 At 31 March 2014 451 2 014 26 2 491 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2013 223 1 453 1 676 Depreciation charge 11 86 97 Disposals and write-offs 2 4 6 Currency translation differences 17 124 141 At 31 March 2014 215 1 411 1 626 Net book value at 31 March 2014 236 603 26 865 Cost At 1 April 2012 444 1 932 82 2 458 Additions at cost 27 86 95 Transfers on completion 33 103 136 Disposals and write-offs 5 19 24 Currency translation differences 20 85 105 At 31 March 2013 494 2 108 32 2 634 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2012 209 1 327 1 536 Depreciation charge 11 80 91 Disposals and write-offs 5 17 22 Currency translation differences 8 63 71 At 31 March 2013 223 1 453 1 676 Net book value at 31 March 2013 271 655 32 958 In December 2013, the Group completed the back-to-back purchase, sale and leaseback under an operating lease of its building at the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
The transaction generated a one-off gain of 6 million, which comprised a gain of 3 million on the recognition of the remainder of the lease incentive on the original lease and a gain of 3 million on the sale of the property.
The majority of the gain was included in the results of the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 99 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 16 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment reviews Management conducted an impairment test on the plant in Dayton, Ohio, on which an impairment was recognised in previous years.
The recoverable amount of the plant was calculated based on value in use, with estimated future cash ows based on internal forecasts of future gross margins for the next five years and by calculating a terminal value beyond that five-year period based on a growth rate of 2% per annum in perpetuity.
Cash ows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.1%, which was adjusted upwards to take into account the risk associated with the regulatory and competitive environment in which the plant operates.
Management concluded that neither further impairment nor reversal of previous impairment was required.
Management conducted impairment reviews of other property, plant and equipment during the year and concluded that there were no indicators of impairment.
Leased assets Property, plant and equipment includes plant and machinery held under finance leases with a net book value of 15 million 2013 18 million.
17 Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates m At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 6 The Groups principal associate, which is accounted for under the equity method, is identied in Note 41.
The amounts equity accounted in the Group income statement and statement of financial position are summarised below: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 Income statement m m Sales 4 4 Expenses 4 4 profit before and after tax At 31 March 2014 2013 Statement of financial position m m Assets 13 13 Liabilities 7 7 Net assets 6 6 Joint ventures The Groups principal joint ventures, which are proportionately consolidated, are listed in Note 41.
The amounts proportionately consolidated in the Group income statement and statement of financial position after the elimination of the Groups share of transactions and balances with the Companys subsidiaries are summarised below: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Note m m m m Sales 5 440 476 Expenses 366 428 profit before tax 74 48 Income tax expense 13 14 profit for the year 61 34 100 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 17 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued At 31 March 2014 2013 Statement of financial position m m Assets Non-current assets 139 173 Cash and cash equivalents 50 73 Other current assets 109 158 Total 298 404 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 2 7 Other non-current liabilities 4 19 Current borrowings 18 31 Other current liabilities 48 56 Total 72 113 Net assets 226 291 There are guarantees in respect of banking facilities of a joint venture totalling 9 million 2013 9 million.
18 Available-for-sale financial assets m At 1 April 2012 24 Additions 4 Fair value loss 1 Currency translation differences 1 At 31 March 2013 28 Additions 4 Disposals 2 Currency translation differences 2 At 31 March 2014 28 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 Note m m Non-current assets 28 27 Assets held for sale 38 1 Total 28 28 Available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprise 28 million 2013 28 million of unlisted securities.
The fair values of non-current available-forsale financial assets are approximated at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
The carrying value of the available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m US dollar 23 18 Sterling 5 8 Euro 2 Total 28 28 US dollar-denominated assets include nil 2013 1 million classied as assets held for sale.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 101 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 19 Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
At 31 March 2014 Derivatives Total Amortised in a hedging Held for Availablecarrying cost relationship trading for-sale value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 28 28 28 Trade and other receivables 23 302 302 302 Cash and cash equivalents 33 396 396 396 Derivative financial instruments assets 20 35 67 102 102 Borrowings 28 778 778 812 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 20 5 47 52 52 Trade and other payables 27 315 315 315 Total 395 30 20 28 317 351 At 31 March 2013 Derivatives Total Amortised in a hedging Held for Availablecarrying cost relationship trading for-sale value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 27 27 27 Trade and other receivables 23 372 372 372 Cash and cash equivalents 33 379 379 379 Derivative financial instruments assets 20 56 84 140 140 Borrowings 28 896 896 946 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 20 17 64 81 81 Trade and other payables 27 382 382 382 Total 527 39 20 27 441 491 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 13 million 2013 14 million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 2 million 2013 3 million relating to social security.
Included in borrowings are items in a hedging relationship which are held at amortised cost, with a fair value adjustment applied, as they are in a fair value hedge.
Fair value hierarchy Set out on page 103 is how the Groups financial instruments measured at fair value, t within the following fair value hierarchy: t Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 t Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly level 2 t Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data level 3.
102 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 19 Financial instruments by category continued The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013: At 31 March 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 28 28 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 3 3 interest rate swaps 20 33 33 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 20 10 13 42 65 Assets at fair value 10 50 70 130 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 2 2 interest rate swaps 20 5 5 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 commodity pricing contracts 20 14 10 21 45 Liabilities at fair value 14 17 21 52 At 31 March 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 27 27 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 2 2 interest rate swaps 20 59 59 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 20 11 14 53 78 Assets at fair value 11 76 80 167 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 20 13 13 interest rate swaps 20 10 10 forward foreign exchange contracts 20 2 2 commodity pricing contracts 20 21 14 21 56 Liabilities at fair value 21 39 21 81 Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets commodity futures is based on quoted market prices at the period-end date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, commodity pricing contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specic estimates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts is calculated as the present value of the future cash ows based on observable inputs drawn from interest yield curves sourced from a reputable third-party source.
Level 3 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments is based on unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity at the statement of financial position date.
These inputs generally reect the entitys own assumptions about how a market participant would reasonably be expected to determine the price of a financial instrument.
For commodity pricing contracts, in evaluating the signicance of fair value inputs, the Group generally classies assets or liabilities as level 3 when their fair value is determined using unobservable inputs that individually, or when aggregated with other unobservable inputs, represent more than 10% of the fair value of the observable inputs of the assets or liabilities.
An explanation of the key inputs used in calculating the fair value of these contracts is set out in Note 3 under the heading Derivatives and hedge accounting.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 103 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 19 Financial instruments by category continued Available-for-sale financial assets which are analysed at level 3 primarily represent investments in unlisted securities.
The fair values of the unlisted securities are principally approximated at cost.
Values are adjusted for permanent impairments and fair value movements as disclosed in Note 18.
For financial instruments in level 3, the Group does not consider that changes to inputs to reasonable alternatives would have a material impact on the income statement or equity.
The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups financial instruments classied in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity Commodity pricing pricing Availablecontracts contracts for-sale assets liabilities assets Total m m m m At 1 April 2012 22 22 23 23 Total gains or losses: in operating profit 53 21 32 in other comprehensive income 1 1 Purchases 44 Settlements 22 2211 At 31 March 2013 53 21 27 59 Total gains or losses: in operating profit 42 21 21 in other comprehensive income 2 2 Purchases 44 Settlements 53 21 1 33 At 31 March 2014 42 21 28 49 20 Derivative financial instruments At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt prole Currency swaps: net investment hedges 3 2 2 13 Interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 20 45 held for trading 7 8 23 2 54 21 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt prole Interest rate swaps: accrued interest 6 2 7 2 fair value hedges 4 held for trading 3 3 13 5 7 2 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt prole 36 7 61 23 Other current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts: cash ow hedges 1 1 2 Commodity pricing contracts: cash ow hedges 1 1 1 held for trading 64 44 77 56 66 45 79 58 Total other derivative financial instruments 66 45 79 58 Total derivative financial instruments 102 52 140 81 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 23 2 54 21 Current derivative financial instruments 79 50 86 60 102 52 140 81 104 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 20 Derivative financial instruments continued The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from cash ow hedges amounts to nil 2013 1 million gain.
The ineffective portion recognised in operating profit that arises from net investment hedges amounts to nil 2013 nil.
The ineffective portion recognised in net finance expense that arises from fair value hedges amounts to nil 2013 1 million gain.
Cash ow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash ow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m US dollar 55 36 Singapore dollar 49 32 Brazilian real 25 34 Mexican peso 16 29 Euro 2 1 Other 3 3 Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity Note 25 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts at 31 March 2014 are expected to be reclassied to the income statement at various dates until December 2016.
Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2014 were 345 million 2013 364 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the United States and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2014 were 147 million 31 March 2013 158 million.
Within net investment hedging gains losses, a fair value gain of 12 million 2013 5 million loss on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the period-end date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 25.
In addition, at 31 March 2014, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 456 million 2013 495 million are designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Debt-related derivatives held for trading Some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2014 were 210 million 2013 231 million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities which are undertaken for the purposes of supporting underlying operations.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 105 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board of Tate & Lyle PLC regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups nancing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Chief Financial officer and has other board members who are independent of the treasury function.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the United States and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within corn pricing.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts recognised in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash ow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the United States and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euro to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollars and euro, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 353 million 2013 479 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 114% 2013 108% and of euro nil% 2013 3% : and net deposits of pounds sterling 10% 2013 10% and other currencies 4% 2013 1%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the uctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as dened and set out in Note 19: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 37 48 Sterling euro 10% change 36 6 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by xing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of xed oating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt is xed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are xed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2014, the longest term of any xed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2013 November 2019.
The proportion of net debt at 31 March 2014 excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was xed or capped for more than one year was 40% 2013 64%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2014 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2014, if interest rates increase by 100 basis points, there would be no impact on the Groups profit before tax 2013 decrease by 1 million.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will increase by 1 million 2013 increase by 1 million.
106 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 21 Financial risk factors continued Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in three markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and energy for production.
Commodity pricing contracts futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as at 31 March to the price movement of commodities: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 50% change 1 3 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash ow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers condential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Analysis of amounts set off The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Groups statement of financial position are set out below.
Amounts not offset but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also shown.
Gross financial Gross financial Net financial Related assets liabilities assets amounts not liabilities assets set off liabilities set off Net At 31 March 2014 m m m m m Trade and other receivables 302 302 302 Derivative financial assets 102 102 5 97 Cash and cash equivalents 396 396 396 Total 800 800 5 795 Trade and other payables 315 315 315 Derivative financial liabilities 52 52 5 47 Bank loans and overdrafts 778 778 778 Total 1 145 1 145 5 1 140 Gross financial Gross financial liabilities assets Net financial Related amounts assets liabilities set off assets liabilities not set off Net At 31 March 2013 m m m m m Trade and other receivables 372 372 372 Derivative financial assets 140 140 21 119 Cash and cash equivalents 379 379 379 Total 891 891 21 870 Trade and other payables 382 382 382 Derivative financial liabilities 81 81 21 60 Bank loans and overdrafts 896 896 896 Total 1 359 1 359 21 1 338 Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 107 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 21 Financial risk factors continued Analysis of maximum credit exposure Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end date is as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 396 379 Trade and other receivables 302 372 Derivative financial instruments assets 102 140 Available-for-sale financial assets 28 27 Held for sale assets 1 The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups having a number of key quality customers and a customer base which is large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum exibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2014 include the US$500 million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in November 2014, the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in June 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in November 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million which matures in July 2016.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as dened in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
The Group intends to renance the core committed bank facility no later than 12 months prior to the facilitys maturity in July 2016.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% has a maturity of more than 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2014, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no gross debt maturing within 12 months 2013 none and 29% of gross debt maturing within 2.5 years 2013 none.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 3.9 years 2013 4.6 years.
At the year end, the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 396 million 2013 379 million and had committed facilities of 480 million 2013 527 million of which 480 million 2013 527 million was undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
At 31 March 2014 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 337 166 255 Interest on borrowings 38 69 14 Trade and other payables 315 2 Derivative contracts: receipts 99 244 payments 86 226 Commodity contracts 16 4 At 31 March 2013 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 77 518 262 Interest on borrowings 41 99 30 Trade and other payables 382 3 Derivative contracts: receipts 93 271 payments 80 251 Commodity contracts 44 3 108 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 21 Financial risk factors continued Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these shares is included in the less than one year category.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outows represent actual contractual cash ows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inows received from sale contracts: however, these inows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain a progressive dividend policy: to maintain sufficient financial exibility to undertake its investment plans: and to retain as a minimum an investment grade credit rating which enables consistent access to debt capital markets.
The Groups financial prole and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business prole and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings, and it is the Groups policy to keep them informed of all major developments.
At 31 March 2014, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa2 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB stable outlook.
The Group is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 Note m m Net debt 34 353 479 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 1 049 1 036 Total capital 1 402 1 515 The Board has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed two times and interest cover should exceed five times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs for the financial years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 are: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 times times Net debt EBITDA 0.8 1.0 Interest cover 11.6 11.1 22 Inventories At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Raw materials and consumables 241 267 Work in progress 21 21 Finished goods 156 222 Total 418 510 Finished goods inventories of 4 million 2013 5 million are carried at realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Inventories of 150 million 2013 164 million are carried at market value.
During the year, no net impairment charge was recognised against inventories 2013 nil.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 109 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 23 Trade and other receivables At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Non-current trade and other receivables Other receivables 1 3 Total 1 3 At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables 276 340 Less: allowance for doubtful debts 8 10 Trade receivables net 268 330 Prepayments and accrued income 13 14 Margin deposits 13 18 Other receivables 20 21 Total 314 383 The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables were denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m US dollar 172 222 Euro 103 95 Sterling 11 11 Other 29 58 Total 315 386 Allowance for doubtful debts Trade receivables are subject to limited credit risk because the Group has a number of key customers of good credit quality and a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
Trade receivables are regularly reviewed for collectability and an allowance has been established for doubtful debts against which trade receivables are written-off when they are no longer considered to be collectible.
Movements on the allowance for doubtful debts were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m At 1 April 10 7 Net credit expense for the year Note 6 1 3 Currency translation differences 1 At 31 March 8 10 As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of 22 million 2013 31 million were past due but not impaired because they were considered to be collectible.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables was as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Up to 30 days past due 22 28 13 months past due 3 Total 22 31 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing but interest may be charged to customers on overdue amounts.
110 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 24 Share capital and share premium Ordinary Share share capital premium Total m m m At 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Shares m Shares m At 1 April 468 192 900 117 468 160 519 117 Allotted under share option schemes 9 983 32 381 At 31 March 468 202 883 117 468 192 900 117 Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under share-based incentive arrangements see Note 26.
Own shares are held either by the Company in treasury or by an Employee benefit Trust that was established by the Company.
Movements in own shares held were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Cost Cost Number m Number m At 1 April 4 413 175 29 3 795 558 23 Purchased in the market 3 545 000 29 3 500 000 23 Transferred to employees 3 251 746 21 2 882 383 17 At 31 March 4 706 429 37 4 413 175 29 During the year, 3,045,000 2013 2,000,000 shares were purchased into treasury at a cost of 25 million 2013 13 million and 500,000 2013 1,500,000 shares were purchased into the Employee benefit Trust at a cost of 4 million 2013 10 million.
During the year, 2,443,619 2013 2,703,843 shares held in treasury and 808,127 2013 178,540 shares held in the Employee benefit Trust were transferred to employees to satisfy vested share awards.
At 31 March 2014, 2,442,914 2013 1,841,533 shares were held in treasury with a market value of 16 million 2013 16 million and 2,263,515 2013 2,571,642 shares were held in the Employee benefit Trust with a market value of 15 million 2013 22 million.
At 31 March 2014, own shares held represented 1.0% 2013 0.9% of the Companys called up share capital.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders At 31 March 2014 Number of Number of shares of 25p each holdings % Total % Up to 500 4 815 31.4 1 270 548 0.3 501 1 000 3 873 25.3 3 026 174 0.6 1 001 1 500 1 955 12.8 2 441 124 0.5 1 501 2 000 1 242 8.1 2 237 815 0.5 2 001 5 000 2 024 13.2 6 261 691 1.3 5 001 10 000 538 3.5 3 772 112 0.8 10 001 200 000 616 4.0 30 537 962 6.5 200 001 500 000 121 0.8 38 693 792 8.3 Above 500 000 146 0.9 379 961 665 81.2 Total 15 330 100.0 468 202 883 100.0 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 111 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 25 Other reserves Currency Hedging translation Other reserve reserve reserves Total m m m m At 1 April 2012 228 98 128 Other comprehensive income Loss on cash ow hedges 3 3 Loss on cash ow hedges transferred to profit or loss 4 4 Loss on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Gain on currency translation of foreign operations 56 56 Loss on net investment hedges 30 30 Gain transferred to profit or loss on disposal of foreign operations 14 14 Tax relating to the above items 1 1 At 31 March 2013 240 97 139 Other comprehensive income Loss on cash ow hedges 1 1 Loss on currency translation of foreign operations 130 130 Gain on net investment hedges 50 50 Tax relating to the above items At 31 March 2014 1 40 97 58 26 Share-based incentives The Company operates share-based incentive arrangements for the executive directors, senior executives and other eligible employees under which awards and options are granted over the Companys ordinary shares.
All of the arrangements under which awards and options were outstanding during the 2014 and 2013 financial years are classied as equity-settled.
During the year, the compensation expense recognised in profit or loss in respect of share-based incentives was 8 million 2013 13 million.
Background Performance Share Plan The Groups principal ongoing share-based incentive arrangement is the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Participation in the PSP is restricted to the executive directors and other senior executives.
Awards made under the PSP normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and the Group achieves earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reaching specified levels over the performance period.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations reaching specified levels at the end of the performance period.
The performance period is the period of three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is granted.
During the 2014 and 2013 financial years, the Group recognised an expense in relation to share-based incentives that were awarded to the Chief Executive officer in 2009, 2010 and 2011 that were subject to the same performance conditions that applied to awards made under the PSP in those years.
From 2012, the Chief Executive officer has participated in the PSP.
Further information on the PSP is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 71.
Group Bonus Plan Deferred Element Bonuses earned under the Group Bonus Plan are normally paid in cash up to 100% of the base salary of the participating executive.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares that are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in the Groups employment.
During the vesting period, payments in lieu of dividends are made in relation to the deferred shares.
Further information on the Group Bonus Plan is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Sharesave Plan Options are granted from time-to-to time under the Companys Sharesave Plan, which is open to all employees in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy shares in the Company after a period of three or five years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which they contribute on a monthly basis.
Executive Share Option Scheme Options are outstanding under the Companys legacy executive share option scheme.
The last grant of options was made under this scheme in 2004 and those options vested in 2007.
112 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 26 Share-based incentives continued Movements in the year Movements in the awards outstanding during the year were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Awards price Awards price Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 April 10 838 115 10p 11 270 273 16p Granted 2 591 210 11p 2 718 602 8p Exercised 3 261 729 14p 2 914 764 29p Lapsed 309 212 20p 235 996 7p Outstanding at 31 March 9 858 384 10p 10 838 115 10p Exercisable at 31 March 1 981 524 16p 1 875 237 29p The weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the dates on which awards were exercised during the year was 817p 2013 654p.
Awards granted in the year During the year, PSP awards were granted over 2,548,235 shares 2013 2,673,024 shares and Sharesave options were granted over 42,975 shares 2013 37,210 shares.
The compensation expense recognised in relation to these awards is based on the fair value of the awards at their respective grant dates.
The weighted average fair values of the awards granted during the year and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 PSP Sharesave PSP Sharesave Fair value at grant date 752p 198p 619p 209p Principal assumptions Share price on grant date 817p 782p 679p 759p Expected life of the awards 3 years 3.3 5.3 years 3 years 3.3 5.3 years Risk-free interest rate 0.45% 0.9% 0.65% 1.2% Dividend yield on the Companys shares 3.5% 3.5% 4.0% 4.0% Volatility of the Companys shares n a 30% n a 35% The fair value of the awards was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, taking into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys shares over the expected life of the awards.
No deferred shares were granted under the Group Bonus Plan during the year.
During the prior year, 8,368 deferred shares were granted in relation to annual bonuses earned during the year ended 31 March 2012.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life of awards outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Weighted Weighted average average contractual contractual Awards life Awards life Exercise price Number months Number months Nil 9 638 499 48.2 10 573 265 49.1 200p to 399p 98 694 14.2 167 358 14.6 400p to 799p 121 191 34.5 97 492 37.6 Total 9 858 384 47.7 10 838 115 48.4 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 113 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 27 Trade and other payables At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Non-current payables Accruals and deferred income 2 3 Total 2 3 At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current payables Trade payables 216 264 Social security 2 3 Accruals and deferred income 63 79 Other payables 34 36 Total 315 382 28 Borrowings Non-current borrowings At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Unsecured borrowings 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20162036 US$77,655,000 47 51 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 341 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 157 177 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 214 224 Total 420 795 Bank loans Variable unsecured loans US$ 2 5 Total 2 5 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 17 21 Total 17 21 Total non-current borrowings 439 821 On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of 6.5% cumulative preference shares shall be entitled to 1 per share, in preference to all other classes of shareholders.
Holders of these shares are entitled to vote at meetings, except on the following matters: any question as to the disposal of the surplus profits after the dividend on these shares has been provided for: the election of directors: their remuneration: any agreement between the directors and the Company: or the alteration of the Articles of Association dealing with any such matters.
Current borrowing At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Unsecured borrowings 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 304 Industrial Revenue Bonds 2013 US$14,345,000 9 Bank overdrafts 6 8 Short-term loans 27 56 Total 337 73 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 2 2 Total current borrowings 339 75 Included within borrowings are 345 million 2013 363 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges, of which amortised cost has been increased by 24 million 2013 46 million in the table above.
Secured borrowings Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
114 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 28 Borrowings continued Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings compared with their book values are as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Non-current unsecured borrowings 420 451 795 845 Non-current bank loans 22 55 Other non-current borrowings 17 17 21 21 Current borrowings 339 342 75 75 Total 778 812 896 946 The fair value of borrowings has been determined using either quoted market prices, broker dealer quotations or discounted cash ow analysis.
Interest rate risks and maturity of borrowings The maturity prole of the Groups non-current borrowings is as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m One to two years 9 344 Two to five years 164 191 After five years 266 286 Total non-current borrowings 439 821 Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
If the interest rates applicable to the Groups oating rate debt and cash held as at 31 March 2014 rise by an average of 1% over the year ending 31 March 2015, there would be no impact on the Groups profit before tax 2013 decrease by 1 million.
Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% Industrial Revenue Bonds 20132036 US$92,000,000 0.1% 0.2% 5.0% Guaranteed Notes 2014 US$500,000,000 2.8% 2.9% 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 4.1% 4.2% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 4.3% 4.8% Short-term loans and overdrafts Current short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at oating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC holds a US$800 million five year committed multi-currency club facility with a core of highly-rated banks that was arranged in July 2011.
As at 31 March 2014, this committed facility remains undrawn.
The facility has a value of 480 million 2013 527 million and matures in July 2016.
This facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The facility may only be withdrawn in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Present value Present value Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments m m m m Within one year 4 2 42 Between one and five years 10 9 14 11 After five years 11 8 13 10 Total 25 19 31 23 Less future finance charges 6 8 Present value of minimum lease payments 19 23 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 115 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 29 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes and their respective tax values.
Deferred tax liabilities arise where the carrying amount is higher than the tax value more tax deduction has been taken.
This can happen where we invest in capital assets, as governments often encourage investment by allowing tax depreciation to be recognised faster than accounting depreciation.
This reduces the tax value of the asset relative to its carrying amount.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets arise where the carrying amount is lower than the tax value less tax benefit has been taken.
This can happen where we have trading losses, which cannot be offset in the current period but can be carried forward and we consider it probable that we will be able to offset the losses against future taxable profits.
Movements in deferred income tax net assets liabilities in the year are as follows: Deferred tax m At 1 April 2012 12 Charged to the income statement restated 23 Charged to other comprehensive income restated 12 Charged directly to equity 1 Currency translation differences 8 At 31 March 2013 16 Charged to the income statement 2 Charged to other comprehensive income 22 Charged directly to equity 1 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2014 38 Of the amounts of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income, a charge of 1 million 2013 1 million arose from changes in tax rates.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
Deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised tax losses of 614 million 2013 571 million have not been recognised to the extent that they exceed taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31March 2014.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 3 million 2013 4 million of which nil 2013 nil has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences arising from unremitted profits at the period-end date was approximately 3 million 2013 4 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities principally relate to deferred tax on acquired intangible assets.
Other deferred tax assets principally relate to deferred tax on provisions.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows: Capital allowances in excess of depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m At 1 April 2012 115 33 148 Transfers between categories 33 Charged to the income statement 12 8 20 Currency translation differences 10 8 2 At 31 March 2013 137 30 167 Transfers between categories 33 Credited to the income statement 423 27 Currency translation differences 12 2 14 At 31 March 2014 121 2 123 116 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 29 Deferred tax continued Retirement benefit Share-based obligations payments Tax losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 April 2012 74 7 78 1 160 Transfers between categories 3 3 Credited charged to the income statement restated 25 2 33 3 3 Charged to other comprehensive income restated 6 5 1 12 Charged directly to equity 1 1 Currency translation differences 7 1 2 2 10 At 31 March 2013 100 7 42 2 151 Transfers between categories 3 3 Charged credited to the income statement 6 1 23 1 29 Charged to other comprehensive income 22 22 Charged directly to equity 1 1 Currency translation differences 8 3 11 At 31 March 2014 64 5 16 85 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
As a result of these offsets, the deferred tax balances are presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax liabilities 45 24 Deferred tax assets 7 8 Net deferred tax liability 38 16 See Note 43.
30 Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information i Pensions The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension plans, principally in the UK and the US and, until December 2013, in the Netherlands.
Generally, the pension benets provided under these plans are determined based on the pensionable salary and period of pensionable service of the individual members.
Most of the plans are funded and the plan assets held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The extent of the powers of the trustees, in particular in respect of funding and investment strategy, varies and is dependent on local regulations and the rules of each plan.
Payments made by the Group to the plans principally comprise funding contributions agreed with the trustees that are determined in accordance with local regulations to ensure that appropriate funding levels are maintained and funding deficits are eliminated over a reasonable period of time.
All of the significant dened benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants and most are closed to future accrual.
The Group operates dened contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
Contributions payable by the Group to these plans during the year amounted to 3 million 2013 4 million.
ii Other benets The Groups subsidiaries in the US provide unfunded retirement medical plans to the majority of their employees.
Such plans provide financial assistance in meeting various costs including medical, dental and prescription drugs.
Employees are required to contribute to the cost of benets received under the plans.
The Group meets the remaining costs of providing these benets in the period in which they are incurred.
b Summary of financial effect At the beginning of the year, the Group adopted IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benets, which changed the way in which it accounts for dened benefit pension and other retirement benefit plans and certain of the related disclosure requirements.
An explanation and analysis of the financial effect of these changes on the periods presented is set out in Note 43.
Where necessary, comparative information for the prior year presented below has been restated to reect these changes.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 117 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued i Analysis of amounts presented in the income statement Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Charged credited to operating profit Dened benefit plans: Current service cost Pension plans 5 4 Medical plans 2 3 Gain on settlement 4 Plan administration expenses 2 2 5 9 Dened contribution plans 3 4 Net charge to operating profit 8 13 Charged credited to finance expense Interest on benefit obligations 64 69 Interest on plan assets 56 65 Net charge to finance expense 8 4 During the year, the assets and liabilities of the dened benefit pension plan in the Netherlands were transferred to a new collective dened contribution plan and the dened benefit plan was closed.
For accounting purposes, this transfer was treated as a settlement on which the Group recognised a gain of 4 million of which 2 million was attributed to the Bulk Ingredients segment and 2 million was attributed to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
ii Analysis of amounts presented in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Return on plan assets Actual return on plan assets net of asset management expenses 27 52 Interest on plan assets 56 65 Actual return lower than interest on plan assets 29 13 Actuarial gains losses Gain loss from changes in financial assumptions 60 134 Loss from changes in demographic assumptions 40 2 Loss gain from experience against assumptions 1 4 Net actuarial gain loss 19 132 During the year, the trustees of the Amylum UK Pension Scheme agreed a full buy-in of its benefit obligations at a cost of 82million which was partially funded by an additional contribution from the Group of 6 million.
For accounting purposes, the related benefit obligation was valued at 69 million such that there was a loss on plan assets of 13 million.
During the prior year, the trustees of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme in the UK agreed a partial buy-in in relation to current pensioners at a cost of 347 million.
For accounting purposes, the related benefit obligation was valued at 266 million such that there was a loss on plan assets of 81 million.
iii Analysis of dened benefit liability At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Medical Medical Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m benefit obligations: Funded plans 1 425 1 425 1 539 1 539 Unfunded plans 46 54 100 53 80 133 1 471 54 1 525 1 592 80 1 672 Fair value of plan assets 1 305 1 305 1 407 1 407 Net deficit 166 54 220 185 80 265 Presented in the statement of financial position: Retirement benefit surplus 12 12 Retirement benefit deficit 166 54 220 197 80 277 166 54 220 185 80 265 118 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued iv Analysis of movements in the net deficit Pensions Medical benefits Total m m m At 1 April 2012 36 104 140 Year ended 31 March 2013 Increase decrease in the benefit obligation 194 24 170 Increase in the fair value of plan assets 45 45 At 31 March 2013 185 80 265 Year ended 31 March 2014 Decrease in the benefit obligation 121 26 147 Decrease in the fair value of plan assets 102 102 At 31 March 2014 166 54 220 c Dened benefit obligations i Principal assumptions Pensions For accounting purposes, the benefit obligation of each plan has been calculated in accordance with IAS 19 based on data gathered for the most recent actuarial valuation and by applying assumptions made by the Group on the advice of independent actuaries.
As required by local regulations, actuarial valuations of the US pension plans are carried out each year and those of the UK pension plans are carried out at least every three years.
An actuarial valuation at 31 March 2013 of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme in the UK has commenced.
Whilst the valuation has not yet been nalised, the Group has used the data gathered in relation to the valuation as the basis for measuring the related benefit obligation.
An actuarial valuation of the Amylum UK Pension Scheme was last carried out at 30 June 2011.
Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation were as follows: At 31 March 2014 UK USOther countries CPI 2.4% Ination rate RPI 3.4% 2.5% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% 2.0% Expected rate of pension increases: Deferred pensions 2.4% n a 1.6% Pensions in payment 3.2% n a 1.6% Discount rate 4.2% 4.3% 3.5% At 31 March 2013 UK USOther countries CPI 2.5% Ination rate RPI 3.5% 2.5% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% 2.0% Expected rate of pension increases: Deferred pensions 2.5% n a 0.9% Pensions in payment 3.4% n a 0.9% Discount rate 4.2% 3.9% 3.1% Assumptions regarding future mortality rates of members of the Groups pension plans are based on published statistics and taking into account the prole of the plan members.
On this basis, the average life expectancies assumed for members of the plans are as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 UK US UK US Male aged 65 now 23 years 19 years 22 years 19 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 26 years 20 years 25 years 21 years Female aged 65 now 24 years 21 years 23 years 21 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 27 years 22 years 25 years 22 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill health.
Medical benets Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation are medical cost ination and the discount rate applied to the expected benefit payments.
Management assumed medical cost ination at 6.0% per annum 2013 7.0%, grading down to 5% by 2016, and used a discount rate of 4.1% 2013 3.7%.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 119 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued ii Analysis of movements in the benefit obligation Pension benefits UK US Other countries Total Medical benefits Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2012 867 468 63 1,398 104 1,502 Year ended 31 March 2013 Service cost 1 3 4 3 7 Plan administration costs 2 2 2 Interest on benefit obligation 43 20 2 65 4 69 Actuarial gains losses : Changes in financial assumptions 132 26 7 165 31 134 Changes in demographic assumptions 1 1 2 2 Experience against assumptions 2 224 Net actuarial loss gain 132 25 8 165 33 132 Employees' contributions 1 1 1 Benets paid 47 25 2 74 3 77 Currency translation differences 1 30 31 5 36 Increase decrease in the benefit obligation 131 51 12 194 24 170 At 31 March 2013 998 519 75 1 592 80 1 672 Year ended 31 March 2014 Service cost 1 4 5 2 7 Plan administration costs 2 2 2 Interest on benefit obligation 41 19 1 61 3 64 Actuarial gains losses : Changes in financial assumptions 23 21 2 42 18 60 Changes in demographic assumptions 39 1 40 40 Experience against assumptions 7 3 1 3 2 1 Net actuarial loss gain 23 23 1 1 20 19 Employees contributions 1 1 1 Benets paid 49 26 2 77 4 81 Transfer on settlement 67 67 67 Currency translation differences 2 45 47 7 54 Increase decrease in the benefit obligation 15 74 62 121 26 147 At 31 March 2014 1 013 445 13 1 471 54 1 525 iii Maturity of obligations At 31 March 2014, the weighted average duration of the significant dened benefit obligations was as follows: Duration Pension plans: UK 18 years US 12 years Medical benets 9 years At 31 March 2014, the benets expected to be paid by the plans over the next ten years were as follows: Pension benefits UK US Other countries Total Medical benefits Total m m m m m m benefit payments: Within 12 months 49 24 73 4 77 Between 1 to 2 years 49 25 74 4 78 Between 2 to 5 years 150 78 228 12 240 Between 5 to 10 years 263 140 403 19 422 120 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued d Plan assets i Investment strategy Principal risks The dened benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as interest rate, longevity, ination and investment risk.
Interest rate risk Ination risk Volatility in the financial markets can have a significant effect on the Ination risk arises where pensionable salaries, deferred pensions or benefit obligation as the calculation of the obligation involves pensions in payment are subject to ination increases.
A higher rate discounting based on yields on AA-rated corporate bonds.
A of ination will lead to a higher benefit obligation.
decrease in the bond yield will increase the benefit obligation.
Longevity risk Investment risk Longevity or life expectancy represents a risk because the longer If the return on the plan assets is lower than the discount rate applied members of the plans live the higher benefit payments to them will to the benefit obligation, there will be an increase in the deficit or be.
An increase in life expectancy beyond that assumed will increase reduction in the surplus on the plan.
Mitigation of risk The Group encourages the trustees of the plans to adopt an investment policy that seeks to mitigate these risks, which involves investing a significant proportion of the plan assets in liability-driven investment portfolios that mitigate interest rate, ination and investment risks.
The Group seeks to ensure that, as far as is practicable, the investment portfolios of the funded plans are invested in long-term xed interest securities with maturities and in currencies that match the expected future benefit payments as they fall due.
In the UK, interest rate derivatives are used to achieve close matching where matching xed-interest securities are not available in the market.
Most of the ination risk for the Group arises in the UK since deferred pensions and pensions in payment in the US do not attract ination increases.
Ination risk is mitigated by holding index-linked government bonds and corporate bonds and, in the UK, ination derivatives.
At 31 March 2014, 346 million 2013 275 million of the benefit obligation was matched by qualifying insurance policies that also mitigate longevity risk.
The plans also maintain a portfolio of return-seeking investments, principally in the form of equities and property.
ii Plan assets by category At 31 March 2014 UK US Other countries Total m m m m Equities quoted 237 95 332 Corporate bonds quoted 148 173 321 Government bonds quoted 105 43 148 Property unquoted 45 17 62 Insurance policies unquoted 343 3 346 Other assets unquoted 96 96 974 331 1 305 At 31 March 2013 UK US Other countries Total m m m m Equities quoted 204 144 21 369 Corporate bonds quoted 180 117 9 306 Government bonds quoted 166 52 20 238 Property unquoted 57 29 86 Insurance policies unquoted 272 3 275 Other assets unquoted 120 1 12 133 999 346 62 1 407 Plan assets do not include any direct investments in securities issued by the Group or any property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
Assets are classied as quoted only if they have a quoted market price in an active market as dened by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All other assets are classied as unquoted.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 121 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued iii Analysis of movements in the plan assets UK US Other countries Total m m m m At 1 April 2012 1 005 302 55 1 362 Year ended 31 March 2013 Interest on plan assets 50 13 2 65 Actual return lower higher than interest on plan assets 35 18 4 13 Employers contributions 26 20 2 48 Employees contributions 1 1 Benets paid 47 25 2 74 Currency translation differences 18 18 Decrease increase in fair value of plan assets 6 44 7 45 At 31 March 2013 999 346 62 1 407 Year ended 31 March 2014 Interest on plan assets 42 13 1 56 Actual return lower higher than interest on plan assets 41 12 29 Employers contributions 24 18 1 43 Employees contributions 11 Benets paid 49 26 2 77 Transfer on settlement 63 63 Currency translation differences 1 32 33 Decrease in fair value of plan assets 25 15 62 102 At 31 March 2014 974 331 1 305 e Funding of the plans A full valuation is performed by actuaries for the trustees of each plan to determine the level of funding required.
Employer contributions are agreed between the trustees of each plan and the Group on the basis of these valuations.
The assumptions used by the trustees for funding purposes may differ from the assumptions made by the Group for accounting purposes.
As a result, the funding deficits or surpluses on the plans may be very different from the accounting deficits or surpluses.
During the year ending 31 March 2015, the Group expects to contribute approximately 33 million to its dened benefit pension plans and to pay approximately 4 million in relation to retirement medical benets.
f Sensitivity analysis At 31 March 2014, the sensitivity of the net deficit on the plans to changes in the principal assumptions was as follows assuming in each case that the other assumptions are unchanged : Increase decrease in obligation Change Increase Decrease in assumption in assumption in assumption - m m Pension plans Ination rate 50 bp 75 59 Life expectancy 1 year 68 68 Discount rate 100 bp 206 255 Medical benets Medical cost ination 50 bp 2 2 Discount rate 100 bp 5 6 122 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 31 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Restructuring Insurance and closure Other funds provisions provisions Total m m m m At 1 April 2012 11 4 13 28 Provided in the year 329 14 Released in the year 2 5 7 Utilised in the year 2 2 4 Exchange and other movements 4 4 At 31 March 2013 10 6 19 35 Provided in the year 2 2 Released in the year 1 1 2 Utilised in the year 4 2 2 8 Exchange and other movements 1 1 2 At 31 March 2014 64 15 25 At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 15 20 after more than one year 10 15 Total 25 35 Insurance funds represent amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
Restructuring and closure provisions relate to restructuring within the Group and are expected to be utilised within veyears.
Other provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters and previously disposed businesses and are expected to be utilised within five years.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 123 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 32 Change in working capital Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Decrease increase in inventories 65 47 Decrease increase in receivables 37 38 Decrease in payables 57 20 Increase in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 4 6 Decrease increase in provisions for other liabilities and charges 3 4 Decrease increase in working capital 38 107 33 Cash and cash equivalents At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 238 223 Short-term bank deposits 158 156 Total 396 379 Presented in the financial statements as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 396 379 Total 396 379 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 0.3% 2013 0.3%, with an average maturity of two days 2013 two days.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Euro 70 64 US dollar 248 214 Sterling 52 80 Other 26 21 Total 396 379 34 Net debt Reconciliation of the increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 50 68 Net decrease in borrowings 44 95 Decrease in net debt resulting from cash ows 94 27 Fair value and other movements 13 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 3 Currency translation differences 35 43 Decrease increase in net debt in the year 126 3 Net debt at beginning of year 479 476 Net debt at end of year 353 479 124 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 34 Net debt continued Movements in the Groups net debt are as follows: Borrowings and finance leases Cash and cash Assets held equivalents Current Non-current Derivatives for sale Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2012 424 141 805 24 22 476 Increase decrease resulting from cash ows 46 77 2 16 22 27 Fair value movements other 7 1 5 13 Reclassication 12 12 Currency translation differences 1 6 31 7 43 At 31 March 2013 379 75 821 38 479 Decrease resulting from cash ows 50 39 5 94 Fair value movements other 21 21 Reclassication 304 304 Debt acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Currency translation differences 33 4 52 12 35 At 31 March 2014 396 339 439 29 353 Balances at 31 March 2014 comprise: Non-current assets 23 23 Current assets 396 13 409 Non-current liabilities 439 2 441 Current liabilities 339 5 344 Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Euro 1 12 US dollar 401 521 Sterling 33 49 Other 14 5 Total 353 479 35 Contingent liabilities Trade guarantees At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Trade guarantees 1 2 Trade guarantees have been given in the normal course of business by the Group at both 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
These are in respect of Revenue and Customs, ECGD recourse agreements, letters of credit and tender and performance bonds.
Sale of EU Sugars As previously announced, American Sugar Holdings ASR raised a number of claims totalling in the region of 40 million that it believes it has under the Share and Business Sale Agreement relating to its acquisition of the Groups EU Sugars business in September 2010.
These claims in large part relate to the turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing and the increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business.
Some, but not all, of these issues were considered in the expert adjudication on the closing accounts in which, as noted in the Annual Report 2012, the expert strongly supported Tate & Lyles position.
ASR through its subsidiary T&L Sugars Limited has now commenced formal proceedings in respect of these claims which the Group intends to defend vigorously.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at 31 March 2014 will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 125 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 36 Commitments Capital commitments At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Commitments for the purchase of intangible assets 1 6 Commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 39 21 Total 40 27 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the period-end date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Within one year 21 24 Between one year and five years 68 77 After five years 85 88 Total 174 189 37 Acquisitions and disposals Year ended 31 March 2014 Acquisitions On 17 May 2013, the Group acquired a 100% equity interest in Biovelop, an early-stage Swedish manufacturer of oat beta glucan.
The acquisition broadened the Groups health and wellness offering and added a clean-label, speciality bre with strong health claims to its existing corn-based portfolio.
On 8 October 2013, the Group acquired a 51% equity interest in Jiangsu Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, a leading Food Systems business in China.
The new venture, Tate & Lyle Howbetter, provides the Group with local infrastructure and capabilities to accelerate the growth of its Food Systems business in China.
At the acquisition date, the Group entered into put and call option arrangements whereby at a future date it could be required to purchase, or could itself opt to purchase, the 49% non-controlling interest in Tate & Lyle Howbetter for an amount in cash based on the future results of that business.
The Group initially recognised a liability of 2 million in relation to the put option and a corresponding debit to equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Goodwill of 10 million was recognised on business combinations during the year, which was determined as follows: 2014 m Cash consideration 15 Non-controlling interests share of net assets acquired 1 Less: Net assets acquired 6 Goodwill 10 Cash ows: Cash consideration paid 15 Cash outow on acquisitions 15 Goodwill recognised during the year was attributable to the broadening of the Groups product offering and other synergies expected to be achieved with the Groups existing businesses.
None of the goodwill recognised during the year is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Businesses acquired during the year contributed revenue of 2 million and a loss before tax of 2 million to the Groups results.
Had they been acquired at the beginning of the year, their contribution to the Groups results would not have been materially different.
Acquisition-related costs were less than 1 million.
Disposal On 31 May 2013, the on-sale by the acquirer of Orsan China a monosodium glutamate producer in which Tate & Lyle held a stake that was sold in 2009 resulted in a one-off operating gain of 3 million.
126 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 37 Acquisitions and disposals continued Year ended 31 March 2013 Disposals Continuing operations Sucromiles On 1 August 2012, the Group completed the disposal of its share in Sucromiles SA Sucromiles, its Colombian citric acid joint venture, to its former joint-venture partner, Organizacion Ardila Lulle, for consideration of 20 million.
After transferring a cumulative currency translation gain to the income statement, there was a gain on disposal of 8 million that was recognised as an exceptional item within continuing operations.
Discontinued operations Vietnam Sugars On 29 June 2012, the Group completed the sale of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Stock Company for consideration of 45 million.
After transferring a cumulative currency translation gain to the income statement, there was a gain on disposal of 21 million that was recognised as an exceptional item within discontinued operations.
Molasses On 20 March 2013, the Group completed the sale of land and buildings with book value of 2 million relating to the former Molasses business to W&R Barnett Ltd. Cash consideration totalled 7 million resulting in a gain on disposal of 5 million that was recognised as an exceptional item within discontinued operations.
EU Sugars During the prior year, the Group received 2 million in respect of a working capital settlement from its disposal of the EU Sugars business to American Sugar Rening in September 2010.
No change to the loss on disposal was recorded.
Other During the prior year, the Group disposed of the remaining assets of its Israel Sugar business, resulting in a gain of 2 million, which was offset by losses on the disposal of other assets relating to the Groups discontinued Sugar operations.
A net gain of 34 million was recognised on disposals of businesses during the prior year, which may be analysed as follows: Continuing Discontinued 2013 operations operations Total m m m Goodwill and intangible assets 22 Property, plant and equipment 32023 Derivative financial instruments assets 44 Inventories 91019 Trade and other receivables 913 22 Trade and other payables 6 3 9 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 522 27 Taxation 1 1 Total assets disposed 20 63 83 Non-controlling interests disposed 25 25 Net assets disposed 20 38 58 Total consideration 20 61 81 Other items: Disposal costs 3 3 Currency translation differences transferred to profit or loss 8 6 14 Net gain on disposal 82634 Reported as: Exceptional items Note 7 826 34 Non-exceptional items: Gain on disposal 22 Loss on disposal 2 2 Total 82634 Cash ows: Cash consideration 20 58 78 Cash disposed 5 22 27 Net cash inow on disposals 15 36 51 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 127 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 38 Assets classied as held for sale At 31 March 2013, the Groups investment in Mitr Lao Sugar Company was classied as held for sale.
It was sold during the year for 1 million which resulted in no gain or loss.
39 Related party disclosures Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management being its directors and executive ofcers.
No related party relationships with close family members of the Groups key management existed in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
The Groups share of transactions entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with joint ventures and between joint ventures as well as the Groups share of the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation.
For transactions and balances with joint ventures, there is an element which is not eliminated on consolidation relating to the external joint-venture partner which is required to be disclosed.
Transactions and balances with and between joint ventures are as shown below.
There are no such transactions with associates.
Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 154 174 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures 304 279 At 31 March 2014 2013 m m Receivables due from joint ventures 10 15 Payables due to joint ventures 21 21 Financing loans to joint ventures 8 20 deposits from joint ventures 12 53 The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms.
The Group provides guarantees in respect of banking facilities of a joint venture totalling 9 million 2013 9 million.
Key management compensation Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 9.
128 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 40 Currency exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the results, assets and liabilities and cash ows of the Groups foreign operations into pounds sterling were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2014 2013 1 1 Average rate US dollar 1.59 1.57 Euro 1.19 1.24 At 31 March 2014 2013 1 1 Year-end rate US dollar 1.67 1.52 Euro 1.21 1.18 41 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 1 Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom Percentage of equity attributable Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC G. C. Hahn and Company Limited Blending 100 Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 2 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury company 100 2 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle LLC Holding company 100 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle LLC which is registered in Delaware, USA.
2 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 129 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 41 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Percentage of Country of incorporation equity attributable or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA Cereal sweeteners and starches, sucralose distribution 100 Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Sucralose distribution and blending 100 Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Belgium N. V. Holding company 100 Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Finance Limited Management and finance 100 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil S. A. Citric acid, sucralose distribution, cereal sweeteners and starches 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. do Estabilizantes e Tecnologia para Alimentos Ltda.
Blending 100 Chile Tate & Lyle Chile Commercial Ltda Cereal sweeteners and starches, sucralose distribution 100 1 China Tate & Lyle Howbetter Co. Ltd Blending 51 1 Sucralose distribution, Tate & Lyle Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd cereal sweeteners and starches 100 1 G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Stabiliser Business Shanghai Ltd. Blending 100 France G. C. Hahn & Cie. S. A. R. L. Blending 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients France S. A. S. Research and development centre 100 Germany G. C. Hahn & Co.  GmbH Blending 100 G. C. Hahn & Co. Cooperationsgeschaft mbH Holding company 100 Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Gibraltar Limited Reinsurance 100 Italy Tate & Lyle Italia S. P. A. Blending 100 Mexico Tate & Lyle Mexico, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Sucralose distribution 100 Morocco Tate & Lyle Morocco SA Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 Netherlands Nederlandse Glucose Industrie B. V. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Netherlands B. V. Cereal sweeteners and starches, sucralose distribution 100 Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika stabilizowania Sp.
z. o. o. Blending 100 Tate & Lyle Global Shared Services Sp.
z. o. o Holding company 100 Singapore Tate & Lyle Singapore Pte Ltd High-intensity sweeteners 100 South Africa Tate and Lyle South Africa Proprietary Limited Blending, cereal sweeteners and starches 100 Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes y Tecnologia para Alimentos Blending 100 Sweden Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Oat beta glucan 100 USA Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Custom Ingredients LLC Blending 100 Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house banking 100 TLHUS, Inc. Holding company 100 Tate & Lyle Ingredients Americas LLC Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 Tate & Lyle Sucralose LLC High-intensity sweeteners 100 TLI Holding LLC In-house banking 100 1 Non-coterminous year end.
Joint ventures Percentage of Country of incorporation equity attributable 3 or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC 1,2 Bulgaria Amylum Bulgaria EAD Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 50 1,2 Hungary Hungrana Kft Cereal sweeteners and starches 50 25 2 Mexico Almidones Mexicanos SA Cereal sweeteners and starches 50 Netherlands Eaststarch C. V. Holding company 50 1 Romania Amylum Romania S. R. L. Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 50 1 Slovakia Amylum Slovakia, spol s. r. o. Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 50 1 Turkey Amylum Nisasta Sanayi five Ticaret Anonim Sireketi Cereal sweeteners and starches 100 50 USA DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Industrial ingredients 50 1 Share capital held by Eaststarch C. V. 2 Non-coterminous year end.
3 The proportion of shares held by Tate & Lyle PLC, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown in brackets where it is different from the percentage of equity attributable to Tate & Lyle PLC.
| Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 130 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 41 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Associate Percentage of equity attributable Country of incorporation or registration Company Type of business to Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Thailand Tapioca Development Corporation Starch production 33.3 1 Indirect associate of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash ows of those entities whose financial years are not coterminous with that of the Group are consolidated or proportionately consolidated in the Groups financial statements on the basis of management accounts for the year ended 31 March.
A full listing of the Companys subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is available from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce at 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT.
42 Reconciliation of adjusted performance measures For the reasons set out in Note 1, Tate & Lyle presents adjusted performance measures including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share.
For periods presented, these adjusted performance measures exclude, where relevant, exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net retirement benefit interest, tax on those adjustments and an exceptional tax item in discontinued operations.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the adjusted performance measures to the most directly comparable measures presented in accordance with IFRS.
Restated Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Adjusting Adjusting m unless otherwise stated Reported items Adjusted Reported items Adjusted Continuing operations Sales 3 147 3 147 3 256 3 256 Operating profit 325 24 349 334 22 356 Net finance expense 35 8 27 33 4 29 profit before tax 290 32 322 301 26 327 Income tax expense 45 15 60 46 13 59 profit for the year 245 17 262 255 13 268 Basic earnings per share 52.8p 3.7p 56.5p 54.9p 2.8p 57.7p Diluted earnings per share 52.1p 3.6p 55.7p 53.8p 2.8p 56.6p Effective tax rate 15.6% 18.5% 15.3% 18.0% Discontinued operations Sales 10 10 Operating profit loss 18 26 8 Net finance expense profit loss before tax 18 26 8 Income tax credit 28 28 profit loss for the year 28 28 18 26 8 Non-controlling interests 1 1 profit loss attributable to shareholders 28 28 17 26 9 Basic earnings loss per share 6.0p 6.0 p 3.7p 5.6 p 1.9 p Diluted earnings loss per share 5.9p 5.9 p 3.6p 5.5 p 1.9 p Total operations Sales 3 147 3 147 3 266 3 266 Operating profit 325 24 349 352 4 348 Net finance expense 35 8 27 33 4 29 profit before tax 290 32 322 319 319 Income tax expense 17 43 60 46 13 59 profit for the year 273 11 262 273 13 260 Non-controlling interests 1 1 profit attributable to shareholders 273 11 262 272 13 259 Basic earnings per share 58.8p 2.3 p 56.5p 58.6p 2.8 p 55.8p Diluted earnings per share 58.0p 2.3 p 55.7p 57.4p 2.7 p 54.7p Effective tax rate 5.9% 18.5% 14.4% 18.5% See Note 43.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 131 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CONTINUED 43 Adoption of IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benets At the beginning of the year, the Group adopted IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benets, which changed the way it accounts for dened benefit pension and other retirement benefit plans.
IAS 19 Revised 2011 had no effect on the Groups financial position but it changed the allocation of movements in the net deficits or surpluses on the plans within and between the income statement and other comprehensive income.
In previous years, the Groups income statement reected an expected return on the plan assets and an interest cost on the benefit obligation.
Differences between those assumptions and the actual outcomes were included in the net actuarial gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income.
Under the revised standard, the Groups income statement reects a net interest cost or credit calculated by applying the discount rate used in measuring the present value of the benefit obligation to the deficit or surplus on the plan.
Essentially, therefore, in the Groups income statement the expected return on the plan assets has been replaced by an interest credit.
Differences between the actual return on the plan assets and the interest credit are recognised on a separate line in other comprehensive income.
Asset management costs continue to be deducted in arriving at the actual return on plan assets.
Plan administration costs that were previously deducted in arriving at the actual return on the plan assets are now charged to operating profit.
Comparative amounts for 2013 have been restated on a consistent basis.
An analysis of the effect of IAS 19 Revised 2011 on the Groups results for 2014 and 2013 is presented below.
Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 Under As previous Effect of As previously Effect of As m unless otherwise stated policy IAS 19R reported reported IAS 19R restated Continuing operations Sales 3 147 3 147 3 256 3 256 Operating profit 327 2 325 336 2 334 Finance income 2 2 3 2 1 Finance expense 29 8 37 30 4 34 profit before tax 300 10 290 309 8 301 Income tax expense 49 4 45 49 3 46 profit for the year from continuing operations 251 6 245 260 5 255 profit for the year from discontinued operations 28 28 18 18 profit for the year 279 6 273 278 5 273 Other comprehensive expense 119 6 113 149 5 144 Total comprehensive income 160 160 129 129 Continuing operations Basic earnings per share 54.1p 1.3 p 52.8p 56.0p 1.1 p 54.9p Diluted earnings per share 53.4p 1.3 p 52.1p 54.9p 1.1 p 53.8p Total operations Basic earnings per share 60.1p 1.3 p 58.8p 59.7p 1.1 p 58.6p Diluted earnings per share 59.3p 1.3 p 58.0p 58.5p 1.1 p 57.4p 132 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 44 Future adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements With effect from 1 April 2014, the Group adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements which will change signicantly the accounting for its interests in joint ventures.
In these financial statements, the Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash ows of joint ventures are combined on a line-by-line basis with those of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiaries.
IFRS 11 prohibits the use of proportionate consolidation and requires that joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups share of the after tax profits and losses of the joint ventures will be shown on one line of the consolidated income statement, its share of their net assets will be shown on one line of the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of cash ows will reect cash ows between the Group and the joint ventures investments in and dividends from joint ventures within cash ows from investing activities.
While these changes will not affect the Groups earnings or its net assets, they will affect many of the individual line items presented in the Groups financial statements.
Comparative amounts for 2014 will be restated on a consistent basis in the Groups financial statements for future periods.
We present below an analysis of the effect of IFRS 11 on selected line items.
Elimination of Adoption of As currently proportionate equity As will be reported consolidation accounting restated m m m m Consolidated profit or loss and comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2014 Continuing operations Sales 3 147 393 2 754 Operating profit 325 74 251 Finance income 2 2 Finance expense 37 37 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 61 61 profit before tax 290 74 61 277 Income tax expense 45 13 32 profit from continuing operations 245 61 61 245 profit from discontinued operations 28 28 profit for the year 273 61 61 273 Other comprehensive expense 113 22 22 113 Total comprehensive income 160 39 39 160 Consolidated cash ows Year ended 31 March 2014 Net cash inow from operating activities 384 98 286 Net cash outow from investing activities 137 116 21 Net cash outow from nancing activities 197 197 Net cash inow 50 18 68 Consolidated assets and liabilities At 31 March 2014 Non-current assets 1 319 137 224 1 406 Current assets 1 208 146 1 062 Total assets 2 527 283 224 2 468 Total equity 1 050 224 224 1 050 Non-current liabilities 718 6 712 Current liabilities 759 53 706 Total equity and liabilities 2 527 283 224 2 468 Going forward, the Group will present segment and adjusted financial information on a proportionate consolidation basis since this reects the management of our joint ventures on an integrated basis with the Groups subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 133
