Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Facilities Shareholders Services whether interim, final or special dividends, until such time as a valid Web communications new election or revocation of an election is received.
Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling the Company To assist, please note the following important dates: to make documents and information available to shareholders by electronic means and via a website, rather than by sending hard Final dividend: copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with Record date Friday 10 April 2015 the Companies Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Last day for DRIP elections to apply, or to revoke an election, Rules and the Companys Articles of Association.
to the 2014 Final Dividend Saturday 25 April 2015 Making documents and information available electronically: Pay date Wednesday 20 May 2015 enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs: Special dividend: allows faster access to information and enables shareholders Record date Friday 22 May 2015 to access documents on the day they are published on the Companys website: and Last day for DRIP elections to apply, or revoke an election, reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, to the 2015 Special Dividend Monday 8 June 2015 and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on Pay date Friday 3 July 2015 the environment.
Please note than an election or revocation of an election applies The Company provides hard copy documentation to those to all dividends thereafter until such time as further instructions shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy are received, to provide hard copies to any shareholders upon request.
CREST The Companys website url is www.
co. uk and The company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey shareholder documentation made available electronically is shares in CREST a facility for the receipt of dividends through the generally accessible at www.
co. uk corporate CREST system.
 For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that Electronic communications elections continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive must be made, via CREST, for each dividend.
notification of the availability of Company documentation by means of an e-mail.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions onto our website at www.
co. uk corporate shareholderrequired to make or revoke an election, both in respect of information  Maintenance Dividends i. e. in this case, the 2014 Final Dividend and any Special Dividends, are available at www.
com Online facilities for shareholders or on request from the Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, e-mail: shares@ copies of recent shareholder communications online at: capita.
co. uk corporate investor-relations reporting-centre overseas.
To register for online access, go to www.
co. uk Dividend mandates corporate  and click on the service you require.
To access some of these services you will first be required We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash to apply online.
dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders Once you have registered for access, you can make online enquiries without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend about your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in cheques at a bank.
If you wish to use this cost-effective and simple personal details.
facility, complete and return the dividend mandate form attached to Dividend Re-Investment Plan your dividend cheque.
Additional mandate forms may be obtained You can choose to invest your cash dividends, including any special from Capita Asset Services.
dividend, in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under Duplicate share register accounts the terms of the Dividend Re-Investment Plan.
For further information If you are receiving more than one copy of our Annual Report, it may on the Plan and how to join, contact Capita Asset Services.
be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our Register of Members.
You might wish to consider merging them into Important: Please Read: Action May Be Required: one single entry.
Please contact Capita Asset Services who will be The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend pleased to carry out your instructions in this regard.
or 2014 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future Low-cost share dealing services dividends, including Special Dividends, until such time as you We have arranged both telephone and online share dealing services withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is suspended or terminated for UK resident Taylor Wimpey shareholders to buy or sell up to in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
25,000 worth of Taylor Wimpey plc shares.
The services are operated by Capita Asset Services.
To use the services either visit Please note that if you have already elected to participate in the www.
com or telephone 44 0 871 664 0446 calls cost DRIP, unless you take positive action to cancel your participation, 10p per minute plus network extras: lines open 8:00 am to 4:30 pm the DRIP will operate automatically in respect of this and future Mon-Fri. To deal, you will need to provide your surname, postcode, special dividends, as it does already for interim and final dividends.
date of birth and investor code which can be found on your share It is therefore very important to note that a DRIP election or the certificate or any form of proxy you have been sent.
Shareholders are revocation of a DRIP election, received or already in place 25 days not in any way obliged to use this service when dealing in the before a dividend payment date will apply to all future dividends, Companys shares.
152 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey and CREST Annual General Meeting Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do 11:00 am on 23 April 2015 at: not require share certificates.
This may make it quicker and easier for The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, some shareholders to settle stock market transactions.
who deal infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their shares in certificated form and this facility will remain available for the Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2015 time being, pending the likely general introduction of dematerialised Annual General Meeting: 11:00 am on 21 April 2015. shareholdings in due course.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey share price and Registered Office Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and James Jordan is also available on our website www.
co. uk corporate Gate House share-price-centre.
It appears on BBC Text and other digital television Turnpike Road interactive services.
It may also be obtained by telephoning the High Wycombe FT Cityline service on telephone 44 0 9058 171690 and ask for Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Taylor Wimpey on the voice activated response calls cost 75p Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 per minute from a BT landline, other networks may vary.
Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 Gifting shares to charity E-mail: james.
com If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish Registrar to consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through ShareGift, For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details which is administered by a registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation of shareholder services, please contact: Limited.
Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers Capita Asset Services who charge no commission.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide The Registry range of recognised charities.
For further details, please contact Capita 34 Beckenham Road Asset Services or approach ShareGift directly on www.
org or Beckenham telephone them on 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Kent Unsolicited approaches to shareholders BR3 4TU and Boiler Room Scams E-mail: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK who have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open third parties with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some cases these are cold calls and in others correspondence.
They 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Mon-Fri. generally purport to be from a firm of solicitors or an investment Tel: 44 20 8639 3399 from overseas company and offer, or hold out the prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other investments you may hold.
Auditors Deloitte LLP The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details Solicitors or the sale of an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to Slaughter and May be extremely wary of such approaches and advised to only deal with firms authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You Stockbrokers can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam J. P. Morgan Cazenove approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
uk consumers or Jefferies Hoare Govett by calling 0845 606 1234.
More information online Principal Operating Addresses UK Taylor Wimpey plc Taylor Wimpey UK Limited Gate House, Turnpike Road Gate House, Turnpike Road High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR HP12 3NR Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 E-mail: twplc@taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U.
C Aragon, 223-223A Registered in England 07008 Palma fide Mallorca and Wales number 296805 Mallorca Spain Details of all our operating locations are available on our Tel: 34 971 706570 website www.
co. uk Shareholders can sign up for this facility namely: electronic communications by logging Fax: 34 971 706565 KPI onto our website at www.
153 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
co. uk Magno silk and UPM fine are FSC certified stock sourced from carefully managed and renewed forests.
It is produced in a mill that is certified to the ISO 1400 environmental management standard.
The printing of this report is CarbonNeutral.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed by CPI Colour
