Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Joint ventures Basis of preparation Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on has joint control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous except as otherwise stated below.
consent is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been On transfer of land and or work in progress to joint ventures, the applied consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses.
Going concern Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking operation, but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related into account the principal risks identified on pages 28 to 29.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that share of revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
the Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provide both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Segmental reporting Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
The Group is divided into two operating divisions for management reporting and control: Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Housing United Kingdom Housing Spain Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Revenue accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
recognised as follows: Basis of consolidation a Private housing development properties and land sales The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties achieved where the Company has the power to direct the relevant is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or activities of an investee entity and obtain variable returns from its receivable on legal completion.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are b Part exchange currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration whether the Group controls another entity.
for a sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities independent surveyors, reduced for cost to sell.
Net proceeds of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of generated from the subsequent sale of part exchange properties acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair are recorded as a reduction to cost of sales.
values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as The original sale is recorded in the normal way, with the fair value goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of c Cash incentives acquisition.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, all comprehensive a reduction to revenue.
income is attributed to the owners and the non-controlling interests, d Contracting work and social housing contracts which may result in the non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are a major line of business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements revenue and they are capable of being reliably measured.
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
102 102 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Joint ventures 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Basis of preparation Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated The individual financial statements of each Group company are The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on has joint control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract presented in the currency of the primary economic environment a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs in which it operates its functional currency.
Transactions in except as otherwise stated below.
are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been On transfer of land and or work in progress to joint ventures, the revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are applied consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional currency Cost of sales are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Going concern Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an The Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking operation, but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related based on the total budgeted cost of developing a site.
Once the total Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are into account the principal risks identified on pages 28 to 29.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups expected costs of development are established they are allocated denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing considered these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that share of revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
to individual plots to achieve a standard build cost per plot.
at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses the Groups financing arrangements and capital structure provide arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period.
both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Segmental reporting To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified as the Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
The Group is divided into two operating divisions for management site progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas reporting and control: unless they are specific to a particular plot, in which case they operation are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been are recognised in the income statement at the point of sale.
Income and expense items are translated prepared on a going concern basis.
Housing United Kingdom at an appropriate average rate for the year.
Exchange differences Positive contribution Housing Spain arising are recognised within other comprehensive income and Basis of accounting The positive contribution presented on the face of the Income The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation Revenue Statement represents the amount of previous write-down allocated differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received to inventory on a plot that has resulted in the gross profit achieved The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance period in which the operation is disposed of.
or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and on completion.
This is due to the combination of selling prices with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are and costs, or product mix improvements exceeding our market Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
recognised as follows: assumptions in the previous net realisable value NRV exercise.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Basis of consolidation These amounts are stated before the allocation of overheads entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group enters into forward a Private housing development properties and land sales excluded from the Groups net realisable value exercise.
contracts in order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company transaction risks relating to the functional currency in accordance with risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Exceptional items Group policy.
It also uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure achieved where the Company has the power to direct the relevant to hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or which, in the opinion of the Directors, are material and unusual in see page 105 for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect activities of an investee entity and obtain variable returns from its receivable on legal completion.
nature or of such significance that they require separate disclosure activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are of such derivative financial instruments.
on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1 b Part exchange currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing Presentation of Financial Statements.
Operating leases In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration whether the Group controls another entity.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income for a sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by Interest receivable on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities independent surveyors, reduced for cost to sell.
Net proceeds Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
received and receivable and costs paid and payable as an incentive of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of generated from the subsequent sale of part exchange properties Also included in interest receivable are interest and interest-related to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line acquisition.
payments the Group receives on other receivables.
basis over the lease term.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair Borrowing costs Intangible assets of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on Borrowing costs are recognised on an accruals basis and are payable Brands acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of on the Groups borrowings.
Also included in borrowing costs is the c Cash incentives Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated amortisation of fees associated with the arrangement of the financing.
Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase capitalised.
Their values are calculated based on the Groups valuation at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Brands are stated at cost, less accumulated amortisation and any redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals income is attributed to the owners and the non-controlling interests, basis to the income statement using the effective interest method accumulated impairment losses.
d Contracting work and social housing contracts which may result in the non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated Software development costs The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Capitalised finance costs are held in other debtors and amortised and unique software controlled by the Group, and that generate effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible over the period of the facility.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as a major line of business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements revenue and they are capable of being reliably measured.
years from the time of implementation, and are stated at cost less of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
102 103 103 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Property, plant and equipment amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or impairment losses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Buildings are cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is depreciated over 50 years.
recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Depreciation is charged so as to expense the cost or valuation Financial instruments of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Other assets are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups depreciated using the straight-line method, on the following bases: balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Plant and equipment 20-25% per annum: Computer equipment 33% per annum: and Trade receivables and other receivables Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial instruments do not carry any interest and are stated at their The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds, less unrecoverable amounts.
Trade receivables on extended terms, any selling expenses, and the carrying amount of the asset.
This particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost using difference is recognised in the income statement.
the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
Derivative Impairment of tangible and intangible assets financial instruments are measured at fair value.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is Mortgage receivables any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset equity loans.
The receivable is recorded at amortised cost.
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment Shared equity loans are separated into a loan receivable and a loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are non-closely related embedded derivative asset for accounting independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable purposes as allowed under IAS 39 Financial instruments.
The amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
loan is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and is measured at fair value through profit or loss with any subsequent value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows impairment charged through profit and loss.
The fair value of the are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate derivative is based on a national house price index.
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according cash flows have not been adjusted.
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
If the recoverable amount of a cashEquity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
impairment losses are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cash-generating unit.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable Trade payables amount, tangible fixed assets must then be impaired.
If the Trade payables on normal terms are not interest-bearing and are recoverable amount of tangible fixed assets exceeds their carrying stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, value, no further impairment is required.
An impairment loss is particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that previous charged to finance costs.
revaluations have increased the value of the asset.
104 104 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Inventories Property, plant and equipment amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge transactions date when acquired as part of a business combination and then or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group also uses foreign held at the lower of this initial amount and net realisable value.
sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its net investment Costs comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour impairment losses.
A reversal of an impairment loss is exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of certain costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the depreciated over 50 years.
recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies other inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment than Sterling which is the functional currency of the Parent Company.
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and Interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk in Depreciation is charged so as to expense the cost or valuation distribution.
Land is recognised in inventory when the significant Financial instruments respect of borrowings.
The Group does not use derivative financial risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Other assets are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups instruments for speculative purposes.
depreciated using the straight-line method, on the following bases: balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Changes provisions of the instrument.
They are reviewed regularly and written off to the income Plant and equipment 20-25% per annum: in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated statement when it is probable that they will not be exercised.
Computer equipment 33% per annum: and Trade receivables and other receivables and effective as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial Taxation instruments do not carry any interest and are stated at their ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset Consolidated Income Statement.
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated and deferred tax.
is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds, less unrecoverable amounts.
This For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, Current tax particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost using the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
difference is recognised in the income statement.
Interest income to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
Derivative Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Consolidated Income Statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are financial instruments are measured at fair value.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency component taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is Mortgage receivables of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset equity loans.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment Shared equity loans are separated into a loan receivable and a statement as they arise.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are non-closely related embedded derivative asset for accounting Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument purposes as allowed under IAS 39 Financial instruments.
The differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for loan is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and is measured at fair value through profit or loss with any subsequent computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income value in use.
The fair value of the sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised is retained in accumulated other comprehensive income until the are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate derivative is based on a national house price index.
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future Financial liabilities and equity instruments expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in will be available against which deductible temporary differences Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according accumulated other comprehensive income is transferred to the cash flows have not been adjusted.
income statement for the period.
If a derivative financial instrument If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual does not meet the specific criteria of IAS 39 Financial instruments for Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
hedge accounting it is presented as a held for trading asset or liability.
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other to its recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of a cashEquity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, Customer deposits proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Customer deposits are recorded as a liability within other payables impairment losses are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cash-generating unit.
Borrowings on receipt and released to the income statement as revenue upon Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the legal completion.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the Provisions the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference Trade payables Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation amount, tangible fixed assets must then be impaired.
If the will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest-bearing and are as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be recoverable amount of tangible fixed assets exceeds their carrying stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis using the value, no further impairment is required.
An impairment loss is particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the tax rates and laws that have then been enacted or substantively recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present enacted by the balance sheet date.
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and value where the effect is material.
is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that previous The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance charged to finance costs.
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
104 105 105 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits Share-based payments The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined on various long The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based term actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, growth, payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments yields, returns on investments and mortality rates.
Changes in these to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments assumptions over time and differences to the actual outcome will be are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Note 21 details expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based the main assumptions in accounting for the Groups defined benefit on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest after pension schemes.
adjusting for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.
Tax and deferred tax Employee benefits Aspects of tax accounting require management judgement and The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under interpretation of tax legislation across many jurisdictions, in some IAS 19 Employee benefits amended 2011.
In respect of defined cases relating to items which may not be resolved with the relevant benefit plans, a finance charge is determined on the net defined tax authority for many years.
The operating and financing costs of In determining the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets, such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: management is required to assess the timing of the utilisation of service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees: provisions for tax purposes and whether it is probable that sufficient and certain liability management costs and financing costs are taxable profits will be available to enable the asset to be recovered.
recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations Comprehensive Income.
The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations have been adopted by the European Union and Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an are mandatory for the first time for the year ending on or after expense as they fall due.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements this standard accounting judgements establishes a single, control-based model for assessing control Estimation of revenue recognised and determining the scope of consolidated entities.
It replaced In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise the corresponding requirements of both IAS 27 Consolidation on the proportion of completions in respect of social housing and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation contracts for the period, internal site valuations are carried out Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 does not alter the basic principles for each development at regular intervals throughout the year.
of consolidation: however, it does introduce a new concept of how This is to ensure any funding advances are only recognised control should be assessed, focusing on the ability to direct the as revenue when the work has been completed including activities that most affect returns.
IFRS 10 also provides clarity on the appropriate allocation of infrastructure.
areas which were previously unclear under IAS 27 and SIC-12.
The valuations include an estimation of the costs to complete IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements this standard has replaced IAS and remaining revenues which may differ from the actual costs 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The most significant change to incurred and revenues received on completion.
accounting for joint arrangements will be as a result of the change Carrying value of inventory to the definition of control required by IFRS 10 meaning entities In order to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of may require accounting for in line with IFRS 11 which were inventory, the Group is required to make estimations of sales prices, previously outside the scope.
costs and margins expected on sites in order to determine whether IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities the objective of any write-downs or reversals are required to ensure inventory is this standard is to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
an entitys interest in other entities through requiring the disclosure Following previous significant impairments of inventories, the Group of the nature and risks associated with the interests in other entities has again undertaken a detailed review on a site-by-site basis of and how those interests affect the entitys financial position, financial the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
The net performance and cash flows.
realisable value exercise is highly sensitive to the assumptions The Group has reviewed all significant joint venture arrangements used and we therefore also consider when the inventory is likely to establish whether the change of the definition of control under to be realised, whether or not there has been a sustained change IFRS 10 has affected how the entity should be accounted for in in market conditions that previously caused the inventory to be the consolidated financial statements or if the arrangement now written down and the wider economic environment existing at falls within the scope of IFRS 11.
There are no material adjustments the balance sheet date.
required to the consolidated financial statements as a result of these The Group has reversed a net 18.7 million of inventory write-downs new standards.
This consists of a UK reversal of 27.0 million and further write-downs of 8.3 million.
106 106 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
Significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits 2.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical 3.
General information Share-based payments The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined on various long accounting judgements continued Taylor Wimpey plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based term actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, growth, The following new and revised standards and interpretations under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office payments.
Changes in these have also been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has is given on page 153.
The nature of the Groups operations and its to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments assumptions over time and differences to the actual outcome will be not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43. are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Note 21 details financial statements but may affect the accounting for future These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based the main assumptions in accounting for the Groups defined benefit transactions and arrangements: that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest after pension schemes.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance adjusting for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.
Tax and deferred tax on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: with the policy set out on page 103.
Employee benefits Aspects of tax accounting require management judgement and Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets: The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under interpretation of tax legislation across many jurisdictions, in some Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition IAS 19 Employee benefits amended 2011.
In respect of defined cases relating to items which may not be resolved with the relevant and measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge benefit plans, a finance charge is determined on the net defined tax authority for many years.
accounting: and benefit pension liability.
The operating and financing costs of In determining the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets, IFRIC 21 Levies.
such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: management is required to assess the timing of the utilisation of service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees: Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective provisions for tax purposes and whether it is probable that sufficient and certain liability management costs and financing costs are or requiring mandatory adoption taxable profits will be available to enable the asset to be recovered.
Actuarial gains and At the date of publishing these financial statements the following losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations new and revised standards and interpretations were in issue but Comprehensive Income.
The following new standards, amendments to standards or were not yet effective or requiring mandatory adoption and in interpretations have been adopted by the European Union and some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an are mandatory for the first time for the year ending on or after expense as they fall due.
None of these new and revised standards and interpretations 1 January 2014. have been adopted early by the Group: 2.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements this standard accounting judgements Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits regarding defined establishes a single, control-based model for assessing control Estimation of revenue recognised benefit plans: and determining the scope of consolidated entities.
It replaced In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise the corresponding requirements of both IAS 27 Consolidation Annual improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 cycle: on the proportion of completions in respect of social housing and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Annual improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 cycle: contracts for the period, internal site valuations are carried out Special Purpose Entities.
Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle: of consolidation: however, it does introduce a new concept of how This is to ensure any funding advances are only recognised Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements on acquisition control should be assessed, focusing on the ability to direct the as revenue when the work has been completed including of an interest in a joint operation: activities that most affect returns.
Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment and The valuations include an estimation of the costs to complete IAS 38, Intangible assets on depreciation and amortisation: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements this standard has replaced IAS and remaining revenues which may differ from the actual costs IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts: 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
accounting for joint arrangements will be as a result of the change Amendments to IAS 27 Separate financial statements Carrying value of inventory to the definition of control required by IFRS 10 meaning entities on the equity method: and In order to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of may require accounting for in line with IFRS 11 which were Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements inventory, the Group is required to make estimations of sales prices, previously outside the scope.
and IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures.
costs and margins expected on sites in order to determine whether IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities the objective of any write-downs or reversals are required to ensure inventory is The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed this standard is to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
an entitys interest in other entities through requiring the disclosure Group in future periods.
Following previous significant impairments of inventories, the Group of the nature and risks associated with the interests in other entities has again undertaken a detailed review on a site-by-site basis of and how those interests affect the entitys financial position, financial IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 subject to the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
realisable value exercise is highly sensitive to the assumptions EU endorsement.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments, with associated The Group has reviewed all significant joint venture arrangements amendments, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after used and we therefore also consider when the inventory is likely to establish whether the change of the definition of control under to be realised, whether or not there has been a sustained change 1 January 2018 subject to EU endorsement.
The Group has begun, IFRS 10 has affected how the entity should be accounted for in but not yet completed, its assessment of the potential impacts of in market conditions that previously caused the inventory to be the consolidated financial statements or if the arrangement now written down and the wider economic environment existing at these two standards.
This assessment will be completed well ahead falls within the scope of IFRS 11.
There are no material adjustments of the EU endorsed implementation dates so any impacts can be the balance sheet date.
required to the consolidated financial statements as a result of these understood prior to adoption.
The Group has reversed a net 18.7 million of inventory write-downs new standards.
106 107 107 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups continuing revenue is as follows: million 2014 2013 Housing 2,667.5 2,267.0 Land sales 18.6 28.5 Revenue for the year 2,686.1 2,295.5 Housing revenue includes 96.1 million 2013: 150.0 million in respect of the value of properties accepted in part exchange by the Group.
Operating segments IFRS 8 Operating segments requires information to be presented on the same basis as it is reviewed internally.
The Groups Board of Directors views the businesses on a geographic basis when making strategic decisions for the Group and as such the Group is organised into two operating divisions Housing United Kingdom and Housing Spain.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below: Housing For the year to 31 December 2014 United Housing million Kingdom Spain Consolidated Revenue External sales 2,652.4 33.7 2,686.1 Result Profit on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 473.9 4.2 478.1 Share of results of joint ventures 2.6 2.6 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share of results of joint ventures 476.5 4.2 480.7 Exceptional items Note 6 18.7 18.7 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures and exceptional items 495.2 4.2 499.4 Net finance costs 30.6 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 468.8 Taxation including exceptional tax 94.4 Profit from continuing operations 374.4 Discontinued operations Result from discontinued operations Profit for the year total Group 374.4 Assets and liabilities At 31 December 2014 Segment operating assets 3,637.1 86.0 3,723.1 Joint ventures 38.4 0.2 38.6 Segment operating liabilities 1,460.2 36.5 1,496.7 Group net operating assets 2,215.3 49.7 2,265.0 Net current taxation Net deferred taxation 157.5 Net cash 112.8 Net assets 2,535.3 108 108 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Operating segments continued An analysis of the Groups continuing revenue is as follows: Housing For the year to 31 December 2014 United Housing million 2014 2013 million Kingdom Spain Consolidated Housing 2,667.5 2,267.0 Other information continuing operations Land sales 18.6 28.5 Property, plant and equipment additions 9.6 0.1 9.7 Revenue for the year 2,686.1 2,295.5 Software development costs Depreciation property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.1 1.2 Housing revenue includes 96.1 million 2013: 150.0 million in respect of the value of properties accepted in part exchange by the Group.
The Groups Board of Directors Housing For the year to 31 December 2013 United Housing views the businesses on a geographic basis when making strategic decisions for the Group and as such the Group is organised into two million Kingdom Spain Consolidated operating divisions Housing United Kingdom and Housing Spain.
Revenue Segment information about these businesses is presented below: External sales 2,271.4 24.1 2,295.5 Housing For the year to 31 December 2014 United Housing Result million Kingdom Spain Consolidated Profit on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 309.6 0.1 309.7 Revenue Share of results of joint ventures 3.2 3.2 External sales 2,652.4 33.7 2,686.1 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share of results of joint ventures 312.8 0.1 312.9 Result Exceptional items 62.3 16.7 45.6 Profit on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 473.9 4.2 478.1 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results Share of results of joint ventures 2.6 2.6 of joint ventures and exceptional items 375.1 16.6 358.5 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share Finance costs, net including exceptional finance costs and credits 52.3 of results of joint ventures 476.5 4.2 480.7 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 306.2 Exceptional items Note 6 18.7 18.7 Taxation including tax on exceptional items 66.4 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results Profit from continuing operations 239.8 of joint ventures and exceptional items 495.2 4.2 499.4 Net finance costs 30.6 Discontinued operations Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 468.8 Result from discontinued operations 31.3 Taxation including exceptional tax 94.4 Profit for the year total Group 271.1 Profit from continuing operations 374.4 Assets and liabilities Discontinued operations At 31 December 2013 Result from discontinued operations Segment operating assets 3,101.1 69.5 3,170.6 Profit for the year total Group 374.4 Joint ventures 34.5 0.2 34.7 Segment operating liabilities 1,181.0 24.7 1,205.7 Assets and liabilities Group net operating assets 1,954.6 45.0 1,999.6 At 31 December 2014 Net current taxation 0.2 Segment operating assets 3,637.1 86.0 3,723.1 Net deferred taxation 246.6 Joint ventures 38.4 0.2 38.6 Net cash 5.4 Segment operating liabilities 1,460.2 36.5 1,496.7 Net assets 2,251.8 Group net operating assets 2,215.3 49.7 2,265.0 Net current taxation For the year to 31 December 2013 Net deferred taxation 157.5 Other information continuing operations Net cash 112.8 Property, plant and equipment additions 2.5 2.5 Net assets 2,535.3 Software development costs 0.6 0.6 Depreciation property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.1 1.3 Software amortisation 1.6 1.6 108 109 109 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2014 2013 Administration expenses 158.6 151.7 Net other income 15.8 12.1 Exceptional items 18.7 45.6 Net other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant andequipment, revaluation of certain shared equity mortgage receivables, and ground rents receivable.
Exceptional items: million 2014 2013 Net reversal of inventory write-downs Note 15 18.7 45.6 Exceptional items credited to cost of sales 18.7 45.6 The Group has seen a sustained improvement in the UK housing market and improvement in confidence in the wider economy, driven by continued low interest rates, improved mortgage availability and Government incentives, including the Help to Buy scheme.
Following the completion of the June and December net realisable value NRV exercises the Group has released a net 18.7 million of previous write-downs in the year 2013: 45.6 million.
This consisted of 27.0 million of releases and 8.3 million of additional NRV requirements in the UK.
No further write-downs have been booked in Spain 2013: 16.7 million of additional NRV.
The NRV balance remaining relates to specific legacy sites.
Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2014 2013 Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales, before write-downs of inventories 1,985.0 1,765.8 Write-down of inventories 8.3 61.5 Reversal of write-downs of inventories 27.0 107.1 Depreciation property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.3 Payments under operating leases 3.8 5.7 The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, is as follows: million 2014 2013 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Tax services 0.1 Other assurance services Other services 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 Total fees 0.6 0.6 Non-audit services in 2014 and 2013 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditor, or work resulting from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
Other services relate to advisory services relating to pension liability management consultation and real estate advisory work.
The work was either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the Groups auditor because of its knowledge of the Group.
Tax services include advisory services for Taylor Wimpey plc and subsidiaries.
See page 62 for details of the Groups policies in respect of non-audit services and approval by the Audit Committee.
110 110 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 7.
Staff costs Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2014 2013 Number Number million 2014 2013 Average number employed Administration expenses 158.6 151.7 Housing United Kingdom 3,784 3,629 Net other income 15.8 12.1 Housing Spain 73 71 Exceptional items 18.7 45.6 3,857 3,700 Net other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant andequipment, revaluation of certain shared equity mortgage receivables, and ground rents receivable.
United Kingdom 3,784 3,629 Overseas 73 71 Exceptional items: million 2014 2013 3,857 3,700 Net reversal of inventory write-downs Note 15 18.7 45.6 Exceptional items credited to cost of sales 18.7 45.6 million 2014 2013 The Group has seen a sustained improvement in the UK housing market and improvement in confidence in the wider economy, driven by Remuneration continued low interest rates, improved mortgage availability and Government incentives, including the Help to Buy scheme.
Wages and salaries 164.6 160.9 Following the completion of the June and December net realisable value NRV exercises the Group has released a net 18.7 million of previous Redundancy costs 2.1 0.9 write-downs in the year 2013: 45.6 million.
This consisted of 27.0 million of releases and 8.3 million of additional NRV requirements in the Social security costs 22.1 19.7 UK.
The NRV balance remaining relates to specific Other pension costs 9.0 7.7 legacy sites.
197.8 189.2 Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : The information required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority is contained in Note 32 and pages million 2014 2013 66 to 85 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales, before write-downs of inventories 1,985.0 1,765.8 8.
Finance costs and interest receivable Write-down of inventories 8.3 61.5 million 2014 2013 Reversal of write-downs of inventories 27.0 107.1 External interest receivable 0.6 0.9 Depreciation property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.3 0.6 0.9 Payments under operating leases 3.8 5.7 Finance costs are analysed as follows: The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, is as follows: million 2014 2013 million 2014 2013 Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans 14.4 12.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts Interest on debenture loans 15.5 and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Movement on interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group 14.6 27.7 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other items 9.1 8.0 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Notional net interest on pension liability Note 21 7.5 9.7 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 31.2 45.4 Tax services 0.1 Exceptional finance items: Other assurance services Senior Note 10.375% due 2015 prepayment penalty Note 18 7.8 Other services 0.1 31.2 53.2 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 The exceptional finance cost in 2013 relates to the prepayment penalty on the early redemption of the total outstanding 149.4 million Total fees 0.6 0.6 Senior Notes 10.375% due 2015.
Non-audit services in 2014 and 2013 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditor, or work resulting from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
110 111 111 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Taxation Tax charged credited in the income statement for continuing operations is analysed as follows: million 2014 2013 Current tax: UK corporation tax: Current year 1.0 Prior years 0.1 Foreign tax: Current year 0.2 Prior years 1.1 Deferred tax: UK: Current year 91.4 69.8 Prior year 1.9 3.4 93.3 66.4 94.4 66.4 Corporation tax is calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.3% of the estimated assessable profit for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The tax charge for the year includes a charge in respect of exceptional items of 4.0 million in respect of UK tax which is associated with the net realisable value of inventory.
The charge for 2013 includes a charge of 21.8 million relating to the impact on the deferred tax asset of the 3% reduction in UK corporation tax from 23% to 20%.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: million 2014 2013 Profit before tax 468.8 306.2 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.3% 100.8 71.2 Net under over provision in respect of prior years 1.8 3.4 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 4.0 0.8 Unrecognised temporary differences utilised 1.0 6.6 Losses not recognised 5.0 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to non-trading losses 3.3 18.8 Impact of 3% rate reduction on deferred tax 21.8 Other rate impacting adjustments 0.1 2.0 Tax charge for the year 94.4 66.4 112 112 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Earnings per share Tax charged credited in the income statement for continuing operations is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 Basic earnings per share 11.6p 8.5p million 2014 2013 Diluted earnings per share 11.5p 8.3p Current tax: UK corporation tax: Current year 1.0 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 11.6p 7.5p Prior years 0.1 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 11.5p 7.3p Foreign tax: Current year 0.2 Prior years Adjusted basic earnings per share continuing operations 11.2p 6.7p 1.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share continuing operations 11.1p 6.5p Deferred tax: UK: Current year 91.4 69.8 Basic earnings per share discontinued operations 1.0p Prior year 1.9 3.4 Diluted earnings per share discontinued operations 1.0p 93.3 66.4 94.4 66.4 Weighted average number of shares for basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,224.4 3,201.4 Corporation tax is calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.3% of the estimated assessable profit for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is Weighted average number of shares for diluted basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,253.1 3,280.4 calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items and any associated net tax charges, The tax charge for the year includes a charge in respect of exceptional items of 4.0 million in respect of UK tax which is associated with the net are presented to provide a better measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity realisable value of inventory.
shareholders used for basic and diluted earnings per share to that used for adjusted earnings per share is shown below.
The charge for 2013 includes a charge of 21.8 million relating to the impact on the deferred tax asset of the 3% reduction in UK corporation tax million 2014 2013 from 23% to 20%.
Earnings from continuing operations for basic and diluted earnings per share 374.4 239.8 The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: Adjust for exceptional net reversal of inventory write-downs Note 15 18.7 45.6 million 2014 2013 Adjust for exceptional interest items Note 8 7.8 Adjust for tax on exceptional items Note 9 4.0 12.7 Profit before tax 468.8 306.2 Earnings from continuing operations for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 359.7 214.7 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.3% 100.8 71.2 Net under over provision in respect of prior years 1.8 3.4 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 4.0 0.8 Unrecognised temporary differences utilised 1.0 6.6 Losses not recognised 5.0 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to non-trading losses 3.3 18.8 Impact of 3% rate reduction on deferred tax 21.8 Other rate impacting adjustments 0.1 2.0 Tax charge for the year 94.4 66.4 112 113 113 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Software development million Brands costs Total Cost At 1 January 2013 140.2 5.9 146.1 Additions 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2013 140.2 6.5 146.7 Additions At 31 December 2014 140.2 6.5 146.7 Amortisation impairment At 1 January 2013 140.2 0.7 140.9 Charge for the year 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2013 140.2 2.3 142.5 Charge for the year 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2014 140.2 4.0 144.2 Carrying amount 31 December 2014 2.5 2.5 31 December 2013 4.2 4.2 The Group has assessed its brands and their associated values and has concluded that given the majority of the legacy brands are currently not used, it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
The amortisation of software development costs is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, equipment Freehold land and leasehold million and buildings improvements Total Cost At 1 January 2013 1.9 17.5 19.4 Additions 1.5 1.0 2.5 Disposals 4.4 4.4 Foreign exchange At 31 December 2013 3.4 14.1 17.5 Additions 7.6 2.1 9.7 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange At 31 December 2014 11.0 14.5 25.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.1 12.2 12.3 Disposals 4.4 4.4 Charge for the year 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2013 0.1 9.1 9.2 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Charge for the year 0.1 1.1 1.2 At 31 December 2014 0.2 8.5 8.7 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 10.8 6.0 16.8 At 31 December 2013 3.3 5.0 8.3 114 114 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Interests in joint ventures Software million 2014 2013 development Aggregated amounts relating to share of joint ventures million Brands costs Total Current assets 68.1 42.2 Cost Total assets 68.1 42.2 At 1 January 2013 140.2 5.9 146.1 Additions 0.6 0.6 Current liabilities 29.6 4.7 At 31 December 2013 140.2 6.5 146.7 Non-current liabilities 28.6 27.7 Additions Total liabilities 58.2 32.4 At 31 December 2014 140.2 6.5 146.7 Amortisation impairment Carrying amount 9.9 9.8 At 1 January 2013 140.2 0.7 140.9 Loans to joint ventures 28.7 24.9 Charge for the year 1.6 1.6 Total interests in joint ventures 38.6 34.7 At 31 December 2013 140.2 2.3 142.5 Charge for the year 1.7 1.7 million 2014 2013 At 31 December 2014 140.2 4.0 144.2 Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures Carrying amount Revenue 23.4 24.5 31 December 2014 2.5 2.5 Cost of sales 19.5 19.6 31 December 2013 4.2 4.2 Gross profit 3.9 4.9 Net operating expenses 0.7 1.4 The Group has assessed its brands and their associated values and has concluded that given the majority of the legacy brands are currently Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 3.2 3.5 not used, it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
Finance costs 0.1 0.1 The amortisation of software development costs is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 3.1 3.4 12.
Property, plant and equipment Taxation 0.5 0.2 Plant, Share of joint ventures post-tax results for the year 2.6 3.2 equipment Freehold land and leasehold million and buildings improvements Total The Group has four material 2013: four joint ventures.
Cost Each of the Groups material joint ventures principal activity is residential house building.
At 1 January 2013 1.9 17.5 19.4 The Group considers a joint venture to be material when it is either financially or strategically important to the Group.
Additions 1.5 1.0 2.5 The particulars of the material joint ventures are as follows: Disposals 4.4 4.4 Foreign exchange Name of joint venture equity accounted Taylor Wimpey plc interest in the Country of incorporation in the consolidated accounts issued ordinary share capital At 31 December 2013 3.4 14.1 17.5 a United Kingdom Strada Developments Limited 50% Additions 7.6 2.1 9.7 a United Kingdom Greenwich Millennium Village Limited 50% Disposals 1.7 1.7 a United Kingdom Chobham Manor Limited Liability Partnership 50% Foreign exchange a United Kingdom Academy Central Limited Liability Partnership 62% At 31 December 2014 11.0 14.5 25.5 a Interest held by subsidiary undertakings.
Accumulated depreciation The following two tables show summary financial information for these four material joint ventures.
Unless specifically indicated, this information At 1 January 2013 0.1 12.2 12.3 represents 100% of the joint venture.
Disposals 4.4 4.4 Charge for the year 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2013 0.1 9.1 9.2 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Charge for the year 0.1 1.1 1.2 At 31 December 2014 0.2 8.5 8.7 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 10.8 6.0 16.8 At 31 December 2013 3.3 5.0 8.3 114 115 115 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued Greenwich Millennium Chobham Academy Strada Village Manor Central Total million 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 62% Current assets including cash and cash equivalents 6.7 76.4 15.9 23.9 122.9 Current financial liabilities 47.5 2.3 2.2 52.0 Current other liabilities 1.7 3.6 0.6 5.9 Non-current financial liabilities 20.8 17.6 12.6 51.0 Net assets 100% 5.0 4.5 4.6 9.1 14.0 Group share of net assets liabilities 2.5 2.2 2.3 5.6 8.0 Revenue 8.5 7.5 1.2 23.7 40.9 Interest income 0.1 0.1 Income tax expense 0.5 0.4 0.9 Profit loss for the year 1.6 1.2 2.5 3.4 3.7 Group share of profit loss for the year 0.8 0.6 1.2 2.1 2.3 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year 2.5 2.5 During the year, no entity charged depreciation, amortisation or interest expense.
No entity had discontinued operations or items of other comprehensive income.
Greenwich Millennium Chobham Academy Strada Village Manor Central Total million 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 62% Current assets including cash and cash equivalents 9.4 10.4 5.8 37.0 62.6 Current financial liabilities 1.0 0.5 1.0 3.5 6.0 Current other liabilities 1.4 1.4 Non-current financial liabilities 5.3 6.9 27.8 40.0 Net assets 100% 8.4 3.2 2.1 5.7 15.2 Group share of net assets liabilities 4.2 1.6 1.0 3.5 8.3 Revenue 5.8 4.9 30.2 40.9 Interest income 0.1 0.1 Income tax expense 0.2 0.2 0.4 Profit loss for the year 0.7 0.6 2.1 5.7 4.9 Group share of profit loss for the year 0.4 0.3 1.0 3.5 3.2 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year 1.5 1.5 During the year, no entity charged depreciation, amortisation or interest expense.
116 116 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued Greenwich million 2014 2013 Millennium Chobham Academy Aggregated amounts relating to share of individually immaterial joint ventures Strada Village Manor Central Total million 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Current assets 3.8 6.3 Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 62% Total assets 3.8 6.3 Current assets including cash and cash equivalents 6.7 76.4 15.9 23.9 122.9 Current financial liabilities 47.5 2.3 2.2 52.0 Current liabilities 0.3 0.6 Current other liabilities 1.7 3.6 0.6 5.9 Non-current liabilities 1.6 4.3 Non-current financial liabilities 20.8 17.6 12.6 51.0 Total liabilities 1.9 4.9 Net assets 100% 5.0 4.5 4.6 9.1 14.0 Carrying amount 1.9 1.4 Group share of net assets liabilities 2.5 2.2 2.3 5.6 8.0 Loans to individually immaterial joint ventures 1.7 1.6 Revenue 8.5 7.5 1.2 23.7 40.9 Total interests in individually immaterial joint ventures 3.6 3.0 Interest income 0.1 0.1 Income tax expense 0.5 0.4 0.9 million 2014 2013 Profit loss for the year 1.6 1.2 2.5 3.4 3.7 Group share of profit loss for the year 0.8 0.6 1.2 2.1 2.3 Share of post-tax profits from individually immaterial joint ventures Revenue 0.7 0.4 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year 2.5 2.5 Cost of sales 0.1 0.2 During the year, no entity charged depreciation, amortisation or interest expense.
No entity had discontinued operations or items of other Gross profit 0.6 0.2 comprehensive income.
Net operating expenses 0.1 Greenwich Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 0.5 0.2 Millennium Chobham Academy Strada Village Manor Central Total Finance costs 0.1 0.2 million 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 0.4 Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 62% Taxation 0.1 Current assets including cash and cash equivalents 9.4 10.4 5.8 37.0 62.6 Share of individually immaterial joint ventures post-tax results for the year 0.3 Current financial liabilities 1.0 0.5 1.0 3.5 6.0 Current other liabilities 1.4 1.4 14.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior Non-current financial liabilities 5.3 6.9 27.8 40.0 reporting year.
Net assets 100% 8.4 3.2 2.1 5.7 15.2 ShareRetirement Other Group share of net assets liabilities 4.2 1.6 1.0 3.5 8.3 based Capital benefit temporary Revenue 5.8 4.9 30.2 40.9 million payments allowances Losses obligations differences Total Interest income 0.1 0.1 At 1 January 2013 4.9 8.1 248.0 56.2 2.4 319.6 Income tax expense 0.2 0.2 0.4 Credit charge to income 0.3 2.3 52.3 9.5 2.6 66.4 Profit loss for the year 0.7 0.6 2.1 5.7 4.9 Credit charge to equity 3.7 10.3 6.6 At 31 December 2013 8.9 5.8 195.7 36.4 0.2 246.6 Group share of profit loss for the year 0.4 0.3 1.0 3.5 3.2 Charge to income 0.3 1.3 85.5 6.1 0.1 93.3 Dividends received from the joint venture during the year 1.5 1.5 Charge credit to equity 1.0 5.2 4.2 During the year, no entity charged depreciation, amortisation or interest expense.
No entity had discontinued operations or items of other At 31 December 2014 7.6 4.5 110.2 35.5 0.3 157.5 comprehensive income.
Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply for the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Accordingly, the majority of the temporary differences have been calculated at the rate of 20% 2013: 20%, the rate effective from 1 April 2015 and substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 20% is nil 2013: 28.3 million reduction in deferred tax asset.
116 117 117 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: million 2014 2013 Deferred tax assets 159.4 247.6 Deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.0 157.5 246.6 The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences amounting to 1.0 million 2013: 17.4 million in the UK and 104.2 million 2013: 103.9 million in Spain.
The UK losses have not been recognised as they are predominantly non-trading in nature and sufficient uncertainty exists as to their future utilisation.
The losses in Spain have not been recognised due to uncertainty of sufficient taxable profits in the future against which to utilise the losses.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 255.4 million 2013: 255.3 million, all of which are agreed as available for offset against future capital profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the capital losses at 31 December 2014 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Inventories million 2014 2013 Raw materials and consumables 1.3 Finished goods and goods for resale 22.1 21.3 Residential developments: a Land 2,582.4 2,180.1 Development and construction costs 882.7 724.7 Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 2.9 1.4 3,490.1 2,928.8 a Details of land creditors are in Note 19.
In 2014 we saw the continued positive benefit of the improved environment in all of our regional markets.
This is underpinned by solid consumer confidence and good mortgage availability.
During 2014 we saw a continued trend to a healthier and more balanced market.
This has meant that, whilst we have seen profitability increase on previously impaired sites, this has not been as significant as in the prior year.
The stabilising of house prices along with a reduction in the number of actively trading sites which are impaired has resulted in a net reversal of impairment write-downs in the year of 18.7 million 2013: 62.3 million in the UK.
The net reversal in the UK consists of a reversal of previous write-downs of 27.0 million 2013: 107.1 million and additional write-downs to the lower of cost and net realisable value of 8.3 million 2013: 44.8 million on previously impaired sites.
In the year 14% 2013: 32% of the Groups UK completions were from sites that had been previously impaired.
At the balance sheet date the Group held inventory in the UK that had been written down to net realisable value of 269.6 million 2013: 459.9 million with associated impairments of 158.1 million 2013: 206.8 million.
The UK net realisable value assessment of inventory is highly sensitive to small changes in judgements and the table below provides an indication of the impact to the inventory held on the balance sheet of 1% movements in selling prices and build costs.
1% selling -1% selling 1% build -1% build million price price cost cost 31 December 2014 12.4 14.2 12.9 10.9 31 December 2013 18.3 6.9 6.6 11.7 There has been some improvement in the Spanish housing market during the year.
However, this improvement has been on newer sites which have been acquired in better locations.
Sales rates and prices on sites which have been previously impaired remain low.
In the year, 50 plots 2013: 95 were completed in Spain that had previously been impaired.
In Spain, there was inventory written down to net realisable value of 27.0 million as at 31 December 2014 2013: 30.2 million.
118 118 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Inventories continued The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: The table below details the movements recorded on the write-downs on impaired inventory recorded through the income statement in the year.
million 2014 2013 Inventory write-downs million 2014 2013 Deferred tax assets 159.4 247.6 1 January 265.1 396.1 Deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.0 Utilised 36.0 86.4 157.5 246.6 Net reversal 18.7 45.6 The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences amounting Foreign exchange 4.2 1.0 to 1.0 million 2013: 17.4 million in the UK and 104.2 million 2013: 103.9 million in Spain.
The UK losses have not been recognised 31 December 206.2 265.1 as they are predominantly non-trading in nature and sufficient uncertainty exists as to their future utilisation.
Other financial assets At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 255.4 million 2013: 255.3 million, all of which are agreed Trade and other receivables as available for offset against future capital profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the capital losses at Current Non-current 31 December 2014 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Inventories Other receivables 57.5 38.6 1.2 1.3 million 2014 2013 102.6 118.5 111.1 110.8 Raw materials and consumables 1.3 Finished goods and goods for resale 22.1 21.3 The average credit period taken on sales is eight days 2013: 14 days.
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts Residential developments: from trade receivables of 2.5 million 2013: 3.2 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
a Land 2,582.4 2,180.1 Included within trade receivables are mortgage receivables of 104.8 million 2013: 107.5 million including shared equity loans.
Shared Development and construction costs 882.7 724.7 equity loans are provided to certain customers to facilitate their house purchase.
They are accounted for as a host contract representing a Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 2.9 1.4 loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset, as allowed under IAS 39 Financial instruments.
The loan is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
3,490.1 2,928.8 The embedded derivative fair value movement is established by reference to a published national house price index.
The fair value of the a Details of land creditors are in Note 19. derivative is 9.4 million 2013: 5.5 million and is included in the amount above.
Cash and cash equivalents million 2014 2013 During 2014 we saw a continued trend to a healthier and more balanced market.
This has meant that, whilst we have seen profitability Cash and cash equivalents see Note 20 212.8 105.4 increase on previously impaired sites, this has not been as significant as in the prior year.
The stabilising of house prices along with a reduction in the number of actively trading sites which are impaired has resulted in a net reversal of impairment write-downs in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
year of 18.7 million 2013: 62.3 million in the UK.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value in both years.
The net reversal in the UK consists of a reversal of previous write-downs of 27.0 million 2013: 107.1 million and additional write-downs 17.
Bank and other loans to the lower of cost and net realisable value of 8.3 million 2013: 44.8 million on previously impaired sites.
million 2014 2013 In the year 14% 2013: 32% of the Groups UK completions were from sites that had been previously impaired.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand Bank loans At the balance sheet date the Group held inventory in the UK that had been written down to net realisable value of 269.6 million 2013: 459.9 million with associated impairments of 158.1 million 2013: 206.8 million.
Other loans 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The UK net realisable value assessment of inventory is highly sensitive to small changes in judgements and the table below provides an indication of the impact to the inventory held on the balance sheet of 1% movements in selling prices and build costs.
Other loans were borrowed at variable rates of interest, from 2.8% to 5.8% 2013: 2.8% to 5.8% during the year, and comprise a 100.0 million 1% selling -1% selling 1% build -1% build 2013: 100.0 million variable rate term loan with an investment fund.
million price price cost cost million 2014 2013 31 December 2014 12.4 14.2 12.9 10.9 Amount due for settlement after one year 100.0 100.0 31 December 2013 18.3 6.9 6.6 11.7 Total borrowings 100.0 100.0 There has been some improvement in the Spanish housing market during the year.
In the year, Bank Bank and 50 plots 2013: 95 were completed in Spain that had previously been impaired.
In Spain, there was inventory written down to net realisable million overdraft other loans value of 27.0 million as at 31 December 2014 2013: 30.2 million.
Analysis of borrowings by currency: 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 Sterling 100.0 100.0 118 119 119 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Debenture loans The 250 million Senior Notes 10.375% due 2015 were redeemed in full on 31 December 2013, with a prepayment penalty of 7.8 million being recorded as an exceptional item Note 8.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Trade payables 505.7 412.6 261.0 140.6 Other payables 404.3 381.3 100.5 53.1 910.0 793.9 361.5 193.7 Other payables include customer deposits for reserving plots of 65.8 million 2013: 49.4 million, 147.8 million 2013: 141.2 million relating to certain accruals associated with completed sites, and 86.7 million 2013: 5.6 million repayable grant creditors.
Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: million 2014 2013 Due within one year 228.4 209.3 Due in more than one year 259.3 139.7 487.7 349.0 Land creditors are denominated as follows: million 2014 2013 Sterling 480.8 347.4 Euros 6.9 1.6 487.7 349.0 Land creditors of 304.0 million 2013: 264.8 million are secured against land acquired for development, or supported by bond or guarantee.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Capital management The Groups objective is to obtain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure.
Shareholders equity and long term debt are used to finance fixed assets and the medium to long term land bank.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net current assets including development and construction costs.
The Group has externally imposed interest cover and gearing ratios related to its financing facilities.
The Group met these requirements throughout the year.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents b 212.8 105.4 212.8 105.4 Land receivables b 13.3 29.3 13.3 29.3 Trade and other receivables b 44.9 48.6 44.9 48.6 Mortgage receivables a 104.8 107.5 104.8 107.5 375.8 290.8 375.8 290.8 a Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity loans which are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset.
The embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit and loss.
The fair value of the derivative is established based on a publicly available national house price index, being significant other observable inputs level 2. b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values.
Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 50.7 million 2013: 43.9 million of non-financial assets.
120 120 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued The 250 million Senior Notes 10.375% due 2015 were redeemed in full on 31 December 2013, with a prepayment penalty of 7.8 million Carrying value Fair value being recorded as an exceptional item Note 8.
Financial liabilities Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2014 2013 2014 2013 19.
Current and non-current trade and other payables, as disclosed in Note 19, include 112.9 million 2013: 85.1 million of non-financial liabilities.
Other payables include customer deposits for reserving plots of 65.8 million 2013: 49.4 million, 147.8 million 2013: 141.2 million relating to certain accruals associated with completed sites, and 86.7 million 2013: 5.6 million repayable grant creditors.
The Group has designated the carrying value of 34.0 million 2013: 34.0 million foreign currency forward contracts as a net investment hedge.
The fair value of the forward contract is based on observable forward exchange rates at the end of the period taking into account Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: any adjustment required for credit risk level 2.
At the year end the carrying value is considered to approximate its fair value as the value million 2014 2013 of the derivative is neglible.
Due within one year 228.4 209.3 The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs level 3, nor have Due in more than one year 259.3 139.7 there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
487.7 349.0 The Group has the following types of derivatives: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Land creditors are denominated as follows: Notional Weighted Notional Weighted million 2014 2013 amount average fixed amount average fixed Sterling 480.8 347.4 Designated as hedging instruments: Euros 6.9 1.6 Currency forward contract to sell against 34.0m n a 34.0m n a 487.7 349.0 In addition, forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy sell against Sterling: 26.0 million and C$ 0.6 million 2013: 22.0 million and C$ 0.7 million.
The fair values of the forward contracts are not materially Land creditors of 304.0 million 2013: 264.8 million are secured against land acquired for development, or supported by bond or guarantee.
different to their book values as they were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and mature not more than one month 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures later, hence the value of the derivative is neglible.
Capital management Market risk The Groups objective is to obtain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure.
Shareholders equity and The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group long term debt are used to finance fixed assets and the medium to long term land bank.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net current aims to manage the exposure to these risks by the use of fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative assets including development and construction costs.
The Group has externally imposed interest cover and gearing ratios related to its financing financial instruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities a Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds at variable interest rates.
The exposure to variable rate borrowings Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: fluctuates during the year due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
Group policy is to manage the volatility risk by a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to Carrying value Fair value potential changes in variable rates is within acceptable levels.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes Financial assets Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December to future interest rates and they are only used to manage exposure to volatility.
This policy has not changed during the year.
million hierarchy 2014 2013 2014 2013 In order to measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast on a monthly basis and compared Cash and cash equivalents b 212.8 105.4 212.8 105.4 to budget using managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Interest expense volatility remained within Land receivables b 13.3 29.3 13.3 29.3 acceptable limits throughout the year.
The Group does not currently have any outstanding fixed rate borrowings or interest rate swaps.
Trade and other receivables b 44.9 48.6 44.9 48.6 Mortgage receivables a 104.8 107.5 104.8 107.5 375.8 290.8 375.8 290.8 a Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity loans which are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset.
120 121 121 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Interest rate sensitivity The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, is shown in the table below.
The Group does not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives.
The table assumes all other variables remain constant in accordance with IFRS 7.
Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% increase in interest rates income equity income equity million 2014 2014 2013 2013 Derivatives Non-derivatives 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 1% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity million 2014 2014 2013 2013 Derivatives Non-derivatives 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 b Foreign currency risk management The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Spain is the only foreign operation of the Group.
The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as all Group companies conduct their business in their respective functional currencies.
Group policy requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
The Group is also exposed to the translation risk of accounting for both the income and the net investment held in a functional currency other than Sterling.
The net investment risk is hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates.
Income is also measured monthly using the latest exchange rates and compared to a budget held at historical exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings the translation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives.
The policy is kept under periodic review.
The Groups exposure to, and the way in which it manages, exchange rate risk has not changed from the previous year.
Hedge accounting Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.
Forward contracts are currently being used to hedge the net investment risk in the Spanish operations.
The Group has designated the carrying value of 34.0 million 2013: 34.0 million foreign currency forward contracts held at the balance sheet date as a net investment hedge of part of the Groups investment in Euro denominated assets.
The change in the carrying amount of the derivatives which were effective hedging instruments and the change in the carrying value of the borrowings offset the exchange movement on the foreign currency net investments and are presented in the translation reserve.
Foreign currency sensitivity The Group is only exposed to the Euro due to its Spanish operations.
The following table details how the Groups income and equity would increase decrease on a before tax basis to a 5% change in the currencys value against Sterling, and in accordance with IFRS 7, all other variables remaining constant.
The 5% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified Euro exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
Income Equity Income Equity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity 2014 2014 2013 2013 million Euro weakens against Sterling 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1 Euro strengthens against Sterling 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1 122 122 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Interest rate sensitivity Credit risk The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, is shown Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations.
Group policy is that surplus cash, when not used to repay borrowings, is placed on deposit with the Groups main relationship banks The table assumes all other variables remain constant in accordance with IFRS 7. and with other banks or money market funds based on a minimum credit rating and maximum exposure.
Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Land receivables arise from sales of surplus land on deferred terms.
A policy is in place such that, if the credit risk is not acceptable, then the 1% increase in interest rates income equity income equity deferred payment must have adequate security, either by the use of an appropriate guarantee or a charge over the land.
The fair value of any million 2014 2014 2013 2013 land held as security is considered by management to be sufficient in relation to the carrying amount of the receivable to which it relates.
Derivatives Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts receivable from various housing associations and other housebuilders.
Management Non-derivatives 1.1 1.1 considers that the credit quality of the various receivables is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and therefore credit risk is considered 1.1 1.1 to be low.
There is no significant concentration of risk.
Mortgage receivables, including shared equity loans, are in connection with the various promotion schemes to support sales on a selective Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity basis.
The mortgages are mostly secured by a second charge over the property and are held at amortised cost.
The embedded derivative 1% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity related to shared equity is held at fair value.
million 2014 2014 2013 2013 The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date Derivatives assuming that any security held has no value.
Details of guarantees and bonds are given in Note 29.
Non-derivatives 1.1 1.1 Liquidity risk 1.1 1.1 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group b Foreign currency risk management manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial assets The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Spain is the only foreign and liabilities with the use of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities with a minimum of 12 operation of the Group.
Future borrowing requirements are forecast on a monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen events.
The Group has a range of maturities with an average life of 3.7 years 2013: 4.7 years.
On 12 February The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as all Group companies conduct their business in their respective functional 2015, the term of the revolving credit facility was extended to February 2020 and as such the average life of maturity extended to 5.0 years from currencies.
Group policy requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency 31 December 2014. borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
In addition to fixed term borrowings, the Group has access to committed revolving credit facilities and cash balances.
At the balance sheet The Group is also exposed to the translation risk of accounting for both the income and the net investment held in a functional currency date, the total unused committed amount was 550.0 million 2013: 550.0 million and cash and cash equivalents were 212.8 million other than Sterling.
Assets and liabilities denominated 2013: 105.4 million.
in non-functional currencies are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency The 100.0 million term loan matures in November 2020, with repayments commencing in November 2017. borrowings the translation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives.
The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows, including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date The Groups exposure to, and the way in which it manages, exchange rate risk has not changed from the previous year.
on which the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: Hedge accounting Overdrafts, Trade and Currency Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.
Forward contracts are currently being used million other loans creditors payables contracts Total to hedge the net investment risk in the Spanish operations.
On demand The Group has designated the carrying value of 34.0 million 2013: 34.0 million foreign currency forward contracts held at the balance Within one year 4.9 237.5 600.3 46.5 889.2 sheet date as a net investment hedge of part of the Groups investment in Euro denominated assets.
More than one year and less than two years 4.9 162.9 37.7 205.5 The change in the carrying amount of the derivatives which were effective hedging instruments and the change in the carrying value More than two years and less than five years 85.7 90.0 30.3 206.0 of the borrowings offset the exchange movement on the foreign currency net investments and are presented in the translation reserve.
In more than five years 26.1 23.7 2.6 52.4 Foreign currency sensitivity 31 December 2014 121.6 514.1 670.9 46.5 1,353.1 The Group is only exposed to the Euro due to its Spanish operations.
The following table details how the Groups income and equity would Excludes land creditors.
increase decrease on a before tax basis to a 5% change in the currencys value against Sterling, and in accordance with IFRS 7, all other variables remaining constant.
Overdrafts, Trade and Currency Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward The 5% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified Euro exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
million other loans creditors payables contracts Total On demand Income Equity Income Equity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity Within one year 5.1 214.7 512.0 46.4 778.2 2014 2014 2013 2013 million More than one year and less than two years 5.1 78.3 30.8 114.2 Euro weakens against Sterling 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1 More than two years and less than five years 63.7 59.5 9.6 132.8 Euro strengthens against Sterling 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1 In more than five years 53.5 14.8 1.1 69.4 31 December 2013 127.4 367.3 553.5 46.4 1,094.6 Excludes land creditors.
Lease commitments are disclosed in Note 30.
122 123 123 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 182.4 million 2013: 182.2 million and a post-retirement healthcare liability of 1.4 million 2013: 1.6 million.
The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new members and future accrual.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK, which are available to new and existing UK employees.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees.
The Peoples Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for weekly and monthly employees not participating in the TWPCP.
The Peoples Pension is provided by B&CE, one of the UK's largest providers of financial benefits to construction industry employers and individuals.
The Group made contributions to its defined contribution arrangements of 9.0 million in 2014 2013: 7.7 million, which is included in the income statement charge.
The Group expects to make contributions of around 9.3 million in 2015.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS which replaced the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance Fund TWGP&LAF and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS in 2013.
The TWPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits to beneficiaries in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier.
Pensions payments are generally increased in line with inflation.
The Group operates the TWPS under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from a Trustee-administered fund and the Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the scheme is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefit payments.
Scheme assets are held in trust.
The TWPS Trustees other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, administration of scheme benefits and exercising of discretionary powers.
The Group works closely with the Trustees to manage the TWPS.
The Trustees of the TWPS are required to act in the best interests of the TWPS beneficiaries.
The appointment of the Trustees is determined by the TWPS trust documentation.
The Trustees must agree a funding plan with the Group such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met by additional contributions and investment outperformance.
In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial valuations are carried out using prudent assumptions.
The first funding valuation of the TWPS was performed during 2014, with a reference date of 31 December 2013.
Subsequently, the Group agreed to make contributions of 18.0 million in 2015.
This includes 2.0 million in respect of administrative costs of the scheme.
In 2013, the Group introduced a 100.0 million Pension Funding Partnership utilising show homes, as well as four offices which are owned, in a sale and leaseback structure.
This will provide an additional 5.1 million of annual funding for the TWPS.
The assets held within this scheme do not affect the IAS 19 figures as they remain assets of the Group, and are not assets of the TWPS.
As at 31 December 2014, there was 93.8 million of property and 17.2 million of cash held within the structure 2013: 92.9 million of property and 18.1 million of cash.
On 8 December 2014, the Trustee completed a medically underwritten buy-in covering around 10% of the liability exposure for 206.2 million.
This medically underwritten buy-in significantly derisks the pension scheme and hence further volatility.
Furthermore, in conjunction with the Trustee, the Group completed a flexible retirement offer for deferred members.
Approximately 25.0 million of future liability has been transferred from the scheme.
The Group continues to work closely with the Trustee in managing the pension exposure.
124 124 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 182.4 million 2013: 182.2 million and a post-retirement The table below sets out the details of the funding valuations for the TWPS, carried out in September 2014, with reference to the position healthcare liability of 1.4 million 2013: 1.6 million.
The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new members Assumptions TWPS and future accrual.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK, which are available to new and existing RPI inflation 3.40% UK employees.
Discount rate pre post-retirement 6.05% 4.05% Defined contribution pension plan General pay inflation n a A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such Real pension increases 0.00% contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals Valuation results TWPS chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower Market value of assets 1,921m than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
Past service liabilities 2,112m The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset Scheme funding levels 91% to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Deficit repair contributions per annum 16.0m The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid Period of payment Until November 2018 employees.
The The defined benefit obligation is measured using the projected unit actuarial cost method.
Peoples Pension is provided by B&CE, one of the UK's largest providers of financial benefits to construction industry employers and individuals.
The duration, or average term to payment for the benefits due, weighted by liability, is approximately 15 years for the TWPS.
Accounting assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the TWPS, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after Defined benefit pension schemes consultation with independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The basis for these assumptions is prescribed by IAS 19 and they do not The Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS which replaced the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance reflect the assumptions that may be used in future funding valuations of the TWPS.
Fund TWGP&LAF and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS in 2013.
The level of benefits provided depends The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier.
Pensions with regard for the duration of the TWPS.
The assumption for RPI inflation is set by reference to the Bank of Englands implied inflation spot payments are generally increased in line with inflation.
curve with regard for the duration of the TWPS, with appropriate adjustments to reflect distortions due to supply and demand for inflation-linked securities.
CPI inflation is set by reference to RPI inflation as no CPI-linked bonds exist to render implied CPI inflation directly observable.
Scheme assets The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a recent investigation into the mortality are held in trust.
The base tables used are the S2NXA tables with CMI 2013 improvements and 1.25% trend rate.
The TWPS Trustees other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, administration of scheme benefits and exercising TWPS of discretionary powers.
The Trustees of the TWPS are required to Accounting valuation assumptions 2014 2013 act in the best interests of the TWPS beneficiaries.
As at 31 December The Trustees must agree a funding plan with the Group such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met by additional contributions and Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.50% 4.60% investment outperformance.
General pay inflation n a n a The first funding valuation of the TWPS was performed during 2014, with a reference date of 31 December 2013.
Subsequently, the Group Deferred pension increases 1.70% 2.30% agreed to make contributions of 18.0 million in 2015.
Pension increases 2.05%-3.55% 2.15%-3.70% In 2013, the Group introduced a 100.0 million Pension Funding Partnership utilising show homes, as well as four offices which are owned, in a sale and leaseback structure.
124 125 125 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: 2014 2013 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Member currently aged 65 88 90 87 90 Member currently aged 45 89 92 89 92 The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
The liability is sensitive to the assumptions used.
The table below shows the impact to the liability of movement in key assumptions, measured using the same method as the defined benefit scheme.
Impact on defined benefit Impact on defined benefit Assumption Change in assumption obligation obligation % Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 35m 1.6 Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 22m 1.0 Life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 66m 3.0 Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.
The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by the medically underwritten buy-in.
See the section on additional areas of risk management at the end of this note.
The fair value of the assets of the TWPS is set out below: Percentage of total scheme million assets held At 31 December 2014 Assets: Equities 793.6 39.6% Corporate bonds 484.6 24.1% Fixed-index Government bonds 261.9 13.1% Index-linked Government bonds 547.1 27.3% Hedge funds 107.4 5.4% Property 23.2 1.2% a Other assets 544.4 27.2% Cash 88.0 4.4% Insurance policies in respect of certain members 242.4 12.1% 2,003.8 100.0% At 31 December 2013 Assets: Equities 844.7 45.6% Corporate bonds 584.6 31.5% Fixed-index Government bonds 242.4 13.1% Index-linked Government bonds 512.9 27.7% Property 14.5 0.8% a Other assets 533.7 28.8% Cash 110.1 5.9% Insurance policies in respect of certain members 77.5 4.2% 1,853.0 100.0% a Consists of repurchase agreements and other financial derivatives swaps, futures and forwards on equities and bonds.
There are no investments in respect of the Groups own securities.
126 126 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: The table below details the movements in the pension liability and assets recorded through the income statement and other comprehensive income.
2014 2013 Asset liability Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Present value Fair value recognised on million of obligation of scheme assets balance sheet Member currently aged 65 88 90 87 90 Member currently aged 45 89 92 89 92 At 1 January 2014 2,035.2 1,853.0 182.2 Current service cost The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
The table Administration expenses 3.1 3.1 below shows the impact to the liability of movement in key assumptions, measured using the same method as the defined benefit scheme.
Past service cost settlements Impact on defined benefit Impact on defined benefit Interest expense income 91.1 83.6 7.5 Assumption Change in assumption obligation obligation % Total amount recognised in income statement 91.1 80.5 10.6 Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 22m 1.0 Return on scheme assets not included in income statement 144.4 144.4 Life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 66m 3.0 Change in demographic assumptions 75.7 75.7 Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.
Change in financial assumptions 251.2 251.2 Experience gains 5.2 5.2 The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by the medically underwritten buy-in.
Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 170.3 144.4 25.9 The fair value of the assets of the TWPS is set out below: Employer contributions 36.3 36.3 Percentage of Employee contributions total scheme million assets held Benefit payments 110.4 110.4 At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2014 2,186.2 2,003.8 182.4 Assets: Equities 793.6 39.6% Asset liability Corporate bonds 484.6 24.1% Present value Fair value recognised on million of obligation of scheme assets balance sheet Fixed-index Government bonds 261.9 13.1% At 1 January 2013 2,013.0 1,770.5 242.5 Index-linked Government bonds 547.1 27.3% Current service cost Hedge funds 107.4 5.4% Administration expenses 3.2 3.2 Property 23.2 1.2% a Past service cost settlements 21.6 17.5 4.1 Other assets 544.4 27.2% Interest expense income 84.6 74.9 9.7 Cash 88.0 4.4% Total amount recognised in income statement 63.0 54.2 8.8 Insurance policies in respect of certain members 242.4 12.1% 2,003.8 100.0% Return on scheme assets not included in income statement 70.9 70.9 Change in demographic assumptions At 31 December 2013 Change in financial assumptions 49.9 49.9 Assets: Experience gains losses Equities 844.7 45.6% Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 49.9 70.9 21.0 Corporate bonds 584.6 31.5% Fixed-index Government bonds 242.4 13.1% Employer contributions 48.1 48.1 Index-linked Government bonds 512.9 27.7% Employee contributions Property 14.5 0.8% Benefit payments 90.7 90.7 a Other assets 533.7 28.8% At 31 December 2013 2,035.2 1,853.0 182.2 Cash 110.1 5.9% Risks and risk management Insurance policies in respect of certain members 77.5 4.2% The TWPS, in common with the majority of such defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, has a number of areas of risk.
These areas 1,853.0 100.0% of risk, and the ways in which the Group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table on page 128. a Consists of repurchase agreements and other financial derivatives swaps, futures and forwards on equities and bonds.
The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting There are no investments in respect of the Groups own securities.
perspective, i. e. the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the Groups financial statements.
Although investment decisions in the UK are the responsibility of the Trustees, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that pension scheme risks are managed efficiently.
The Group has regular meetings with the Trustees to discuss investment performance, regulatory changes and proposals to manage the deficit actively.
126 127 127 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The key risks of the defined benefit pension scheme are detailed below along with the Groups approach to them.
Risk Description Asset volatility The funding liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to government bond yields, with allowance for additional return to be generated from the investment portfolio.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
The TWPS holds a large proportion of its assets in equities and other return-seeking assets.
The returns on such assets tend to be volatile and are not correlated to government bonds or corporate bonds.
This means that the funding level is likely to be volatile in the short-term, potentially resulting in short-term cash requirements and an increase in the net defined benefit liability recorded on the balance sheet.
However, the Group believes that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
The TWPS assets are well-diversified by investing in a range of asset classes, including property, government bonds and corporate bonds.
There are a number of hedging strategies in place these are mentioned below.
A summary of the target asset allocations of the TWPS, excluding hedging and insurance policies, is shown below: TWPS Liability matching assets 37.0% Equity 28.4% Alternative return-seeking assets 34.6% These target allocations were revised in December 2014.
Changes in Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in corporate bond yields and government bonds offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement in the funding or accounting liabilities.
In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
Investing in In order to maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the TWPS assets and to take advantage of foreign currency overseas investment returns, a proportion of the underlying investment portfolio is invested overseas.
To balance the risk of investing in foreign currencies while having an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency hedging programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, has been put in place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted level.
Asset liability In order to maintain and increase the TWPS economic exposure to interest rates and inflation rates, a liability mismatch hedging programme has been put in place.
Repurchase agreements are being used to achieve the TWPS agreed target level of liability hedging in an unfunded way and hence to reduce the investment risk of the TWPS assets relative to the liabilities.
Illiquidity Insurance policies and real estate make up 265.6 million 13% of the asset portfolio of TWPS.
Excluding these amounts approximately 73% of assets are managed either in segregated accounts or daily weekly dealt pooled funds and can therefore be realised within a few business days under normal market conditions.
Of the remaining investments a further 20% are in pooled funds with monthly redemption dates.
The remainder could be redeemed within approximately three months of notification in normal market conditions.
Life expectancy The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the TWPS liabilities.
The inflation-linked nature of the benefit payments from the TWPS result increases the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy.
Additional areas of risk management In general, the creation of the TWPS from the two legacy schemes will simplify scheme management, reduce administration costs by approximately 0.8 million per annum and improve the management of future deficit repair contributions.
During the last quarter of 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited to insure the benefits of certain members through a medically underwritten buy-in.
These members represent the 10% of members with the greatest anticipated liability of the scheme.
By insuring these members, the Group has removed more than 10% of risk from the scheme by significantly reducing the longevity of a large proportion of the liabilities.
The Group remains ultimately liable for the payments, and as such the obligation is unchanged: however the medically underwritten insurance policy has been recognised as a scheme insured asset.
The price paid for the policy was 9.4 million below the technical provision which it covers.
During 2014, scheme deferred members were offered flexible retirement options under the scheme rules, which allowed participants to realise part of their pension at an earlier date than previously anticipated.
By discharging some liabilities at an earlier date, the actuarial risks attached to the scheme reduce.
128 128 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
During the last quarter of 2013, in conjunction with the transfer of assets and obligations into the newly formed TWPS, the Group conducted a trivial-commutation exercise, offering lump sums to deferred and pensioner members with total benefits small enough for this to be permitted Risk Description by pensions legislation.
This resulted in an income statement settlement gain in 2013 of 4.1 million.
Asset volatility The funding liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to government bond yields, 22.
Provisions with allowance for additional return to be generated from the investment portfolio.
The defined benefit Housing North America obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
million maintenance Restructuring disposal Other Total The TWPS holds a large proportion of its assets in equities and other return-seeking assets.
The returns At 1 January 2013 0.5 0.9 58.4 35.3 95.1 on such assets tend to be volatile and are not correlated to government bonds or corporate bonds.
This Additional provision in the year 0.2 3.0 0.1 3.3 means that the funding level is likely to be volatile in the short-term, potentially resulting in short-term cash Utilisation of provision 0.1 0.2 15.3 10.4 26.0 requirements and an increase in the net defined benefit liability recorded on the balance sheet.
Released 0.2 31.3 6.6 38.1 The TWPS assets are well-diversified by investing in a range of asset classes, including property, government At 31 December 2013 0.6 3.5 11.8 18.4 34.3 bonds and corporate bonds.
Additional provision in the year 0.3 0.1 12.4 12.8 A summary of the target asset allocations of the TWPS, excluding hedging and insurance policies, is shown below: Utilisation of provision 0.1 2.5 2.8 5.4 TWPS Released 0.1 0.2 0.3 Liability matching assets 37.0% At 31 December 2014 0.8 1.0 11.8 27.8 41.4 Equity 28.4% Alternative return-seeking assets 34.6% million 2014 2013 These target allocations were revised in December 2014.
Current 40.4 28.3 Changes in Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in corporate Non-current 1.0 6.0 bond yields and government bonds offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond 31 December 41.4 34.3 yields partially matches the movement in the funding or accounting liabilities.
Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision, provisions for legal claims, onerous leases and other contract-related costs.
The remedial work provision covers various obligations, including aftercare at Springfield Environmental Limited and our Oxley Woods Investing in In order to maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the TWPS assets and to take advantage of development.
Also included in other provisions are amounts for legal claims and contract-related costs associated with various matters foreign currency overseas investment returns, a proportion of the underlying investment portfolio is invested overseas.
To balance arising across the Group, the majority of which are anticipated to be settled within a three year period.
Onerous leases and empty property the risk of investing in foreign currencies while having an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency hedging costs included in this provision are expected to be utilised within approximately five years.
programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, has been put in place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted level.
Share capital Asset liability In order to maintain and increase the TWPS economic exposure to interest rates and inflation rates, a liability million 2014 2013 mismatch hedging programme has been put in place.
Repurchase agreements are being used to achieve the TWPS agreed Authorised: target level of liability hedging in an unfunded way and hence to reduce the investment risk of the TWPS assets 22,200,819,176 2013: 22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p each 222.0 222.0 relative to the liabilities.
1,158,299,201 2013: 1,158,299,201 deferred ordinary shares of 24p each 278.0 278.0 Illiquidity Insurance policies and real estate make up 265.6 million 13% of the asset portfolio of TWPS.
Excluding these 500.0 500.0 amounts approximately 73% of assets are managed either in segregated accounts or daily weekly dealt pooled funds and can therefore be realised within a few business days under normal market conditions.
Of the remaining Number of shares million investments a further 20% are in pooled funds with monthly redemption dates.
Issued and fully paid: Life expectancy The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member, so increases in life 31 December 2013 3,237,020,303 288.1 expectancy will result in an increase in the TWPS liabilities.
The inflation-linked nature of the benefit payments Share warrants exercised in the year 16,441,228 0.2 from the TWPS result increases the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy.
31 December 2014 3,253,461,531 288.3 Additional areas of risk management During the year, options were exercised over 24,463,017 ordinary shares 2013: 23,392,655 all of which were met from our holding of shares In general, the creation of the TWPS from the two legacy schemes will simplify scheme management, reduce administration costs in our ESOTs at varying prices from nil pence to 84.72 pence per share.
Under the Groups executive share option plans, employees held by approximately 0.8 million per annum and improve the management of future deficit repair contributions.
options at 31 December 2014 to purchase up to 455,865 shares, subject to achievement of performance tests 2013: 573,981 at a price During the last quarter of 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited to insure the benefits of 39.34 pence per share nominally exercisable up to 7 August 2022.
Under the Groups performance share plan, employees held conditional of certain members through a medically underwritten buy-in.
These members represent the 10% of members with the greatest anticipated awards at 31 December 2014 in respect of up to 16,706,261 shares, subject to achievement of performance tests 2013: 24,609,301 at liability of the scheme.
By insuring these members, the Group has removed more than 10% of risk from the scheme by significantly reducing nil pence per share nominally exercisable up to 3 September 2017. the longevity of a large proportion of the liabilities.
The Group remains ultimately liable for the payments, and as such the obligation is unchanged: Under the Groups savings-related share option schemes, employees held options at 31 December 2014 to purchase 27,313,874 shares however the medically underwritten insurance policy has been recognised as a scheme insured asset.
The price paid for the policy was 2013: 34,004,667 at prices between 22.88 pence and 90.00 pence per share exercisable up to 31 May 2020.
Under the Groups share 9.4 million below the technical provision which it covers.
purchase plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2014 in respect of 6,356,595 shares 2013: 6,979,841 at nil pence During 2014, scheme deferred members were offered flexible retirement options under the scheme rules, which allowed participants to realise per share.
part of their pension at an earlier date than previously anticipated.
By discharging some liabilities at an earlier date, the actuarial risks attached Under a financing agreement signed in April 2009, the Company agreed to issue 57.9 million warrants giving the holders the right to subscribe to the scheme reduce.
to an equivalent number of ordinary shares in Taylor Wimpey plc.
The warrants were priced at 17.4473p per share.
As at 31 December 2013, 40,321,481 warrants had been exercised.
A further 16,441,228 were exercised in the year, whilst 1,152,191 lapsed unexercised.
These warrants have now expired.
128 129 129 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Share premium account million 2014 2013 At 1 January 760.2 758.8 Share warrants exercised 2.7 1.4 At 31 December 762.9 760.2 25.
Reserves Capital Retained redemption Translation Total other million earnings reserve reserve Other reserves Balance at 1 January 2013 912.6 31.5 5.5 7.6 44.6 Share-based payment credit 6.4 Cash cost of satisfying share options 7.3 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 21.0 Deferred tax charge on defined benefit gain 6.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.2 1.2 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.2 1.2 Transfer to retained earnings 0.8 0.8 0.8 Dividends approved and paid 20.8 Profit for the year 271.4 Balance at 31 December 2013 1,177.5 31.5 5.5 6.8 43.8 Share-based payment credit 6.2 Cash cost of satisfying share options 14.7 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 25.9 Deferred tax credit on defined benefit gain 5.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.8 1.8 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.8 1.8 Transfer to retained earnings 1.9 1.9 1.9 Dividends approved and paid 72.7 Profit for the year 374.4 Balance at 31 December 2014 1,451.9 31.5 5.5 4.9 41.9 Other reserves Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of Parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
Translation reserve The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas operations.
It also includes changes in fair values of hedging derivatives where such instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.
Other reserve The Group issued 57.9 million of warrants with a fair value of 5.5 million in 2009 as part of its debt refinancing agreement.
The full cost of the warrants was recognised in the other reserve on their issuance.
130 130 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Own shares million 2014 2013 million At 1 January 760.2 758.8 Balance at 1 January 2013 15.9 Share warrants exercised 2.7 1.4 Shares acquired 15.1 At 31 December 762.9 760.2 Disposed of on exercise of options 12.1 Balance at 31 December 2013 18.9 25.
Reserves Shares acquired 10.0 Capital Disposed of on exercise of options 18.1 Retained redemption Translation Total other million earnings reserve reserve Other reserves Balance at 31 December 2014 10.8 Balance at 1 January 2013 912.6 31.5 5.5 7.6 44.6 The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Taylor Wimpey plc purchased in the market, those held as treasury shares and those Share-based payment credit 6.4 held by the Taylor Wimpey Employee Share Ownership Trusts to satisfy options and conditional share awards under the Groups share plans.
Cash cost of satisfying share options 7.3 2014 2013 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 21.0 Number Number Deferred tax charge on defined benefit gain 6.6 Ordinary shares held in trust for bonus, option and performance award plans 14.3m 28.1m Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.2 1.2 14.3m 28.1m Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.2 1.2 Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs are used to hold the Companys shares which have been acquired on the market.
These shares are Transfer to retained earnings 0.8 0.8 0.8 used to meet the valid exercise of options and or vesting of conditional awards and or award of shares under the Executive Incentive Scheme, Dividends approved and paid 20.8 Bonus Deferral Plan, Performance Share Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the matching Profit for the year 271.4 award of shares under the Share Purchase Plan.
Balance at 31 December 2013 1,177.5 31.5 5.5 6.8 43.8 During the year, Taylor Wimpey plc purchased 10.0 million of its own shares which are held in the ESOTs 2013: 15.1 million.
Share-based payment credit 6.2 The ESOTs entire holding of shares at 31 December 2014, aggregating 14.3 million shares 2013: 28.1 million, was covered by outstanding Cash cost of satisfying share options 14.7 options and conditional awards over shares at that date.
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 25.9 27.
Discontinued operations Deferred tax credit on defined benefit gain 5.2 In 2011, the Group sold the North American division.
As part of the disposal, the Group provided certain indemnities to the buyers.
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.8 1.8 No provision was released during the year as the outstanding indemnities remained valid 2013: 31.3 million released.
Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.8 1.8 Transfer to retained earnings 1.9 1.9 1.9 Dividends approved and paid 72.7 Profit for the year 374.4 Balance at 31 December 2014 1,451.9 31.5 5.5 4.9 41.9 Other reserves Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of Parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
130 131 131 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Notes to the cash flow statement million 2014 2013 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs: Continuing operations 496.8 355.3 Discontinued operations 31.3 Adjustments for: Depreciation of buildings, plant and equipment 1.2 1.3 Net reversal of inventory write-downs 18.7 45.6 Amortisation of software development 1.7 1.6 Pensions settlement gain 4.1 Pension overhead expenses 3.1 3.2 Pension contributions in excess of charge 36.3 48.1 Share-based payment charge 6.2 6.4 Profit on disposal of property and plant 0.4 0.1 Increase decrease in provisions 7.1 60.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 460.7 240.5 Increase in inventories 409.1 92.8 Decrease increase in receivables 20.6 27.3 Increase in payables 135.0 12.0 Cash generated by operations 207.2 132.4 Income taxes received 0.1 0.9 Interest paid 14.6 35.2 Net cash from operating activities 192.7 98.1 Pension contributions in excess of charge in the table above has been re-presented to be before movements in working capital.
In respect of 2013, Cash received on exercise of share options and Purchase of own shares as presented on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement have been re-presented to aid comparison to the current year figures.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Movement in net cash debt Overdrafts, Total net Cash and cash banks and Debenture million equivalents other loans loans debt cash Balance 1 January 2013 190.4 100.0 149.4 59.0 Cash flow 83.3 149.4 66.1 Foreign exchange 1.7 1.7 Balance 31 December 2013 105.4 100.0 5.4 Cash flow 106.1 106.1 Foreign exchange 1.3 1.3 Balance 31 December 2014 212.8 100.0 112.8 29.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments General The Group in the normal course of business has given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures.
The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
The Group has no material capital commitments as at 31 December 2014 2013: none.
132 132 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Notes to the cash flow statement 30.
Operating lease arrangements million 2014 2013 The Group as lessee At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs: leases, which fall due as follows: Continuing operations 496.8 355.3 million 2014 2013 Discontinued operations 31.3 Adjustments for: Within one year 7.6 8.4 In more than one year but not more than five years 12.6 14.4 Depreciation of buildings, plant and equipment 1.2 1.3 Net reversal of inventory write-downs 18.7 45.6 After five years 1.3 0.5 Amortisation of software development 1.7 1.6 21.5 23.3 Pensions settlement gain 4.1 31.
Share-based payments Pension overhead expenses 3.1 3.2 Equity-settled share option plan Pension contributions in excess of charge 36.3 48.1 Details of all equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in existence during the year are set out in the Remuneration Report Share-based payment charge 6.2 6.4 on pages 66 to 85.
Profit on disposal of property and plant 0.4 0.1 2014 2013 Increase decrease in provisions 7.1 60.7 Weighted Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 460.7 240.5 average Weighted Increase in inventories 409.1 92.8 exercise average price exercise price Decrease increase in receivables 20.6 27.3 Schemes requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Increase in payables 135.0 12.0 Outstanding at beginning of year 40,984,508 0.38 46,105,165 0.30 Cash generated by operations 207.2 132.4 Granted during the year 8,106,951 0.80 6,421,141 0.85 Income taxes received 0.1 0.9 Lapsed during the year 1,539,724 0.53 1,481,268 0.49 Interest paid 14.6 35.2 Exercised during the year 13,425,401 0.23 10,060,530 0.30 Net cash from operating activities 192.7 98.1 Cancellations during the year Pension contributions in excess of charge in the table above has been re-presented to be before movements in working capital.
In respect of 2013, Cash received on exercise Outstanding at the end of the year 34,126,334 0.46 40,984,508 0.38 of share options and Purchase of own shares as presented on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement have been re-presented to aid comparison to the current year figures.
Exercisable at the end of the year 6,308,736 0.12 13,625,551 0.32 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and The table above includes shares which are granted to employees on a matching basis.
When the employee joins the scheme, purchased other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
shares are matched on a 1:1 basis.
6,356,595 of these awards, which do not expire, were in issue at 31 December 2014 2013: 6,979,841.
Movement in net cash debt The remaining options outstanding at 31 December 2014 had a range of exercise prices from 0.23 to 0.90 2013: 0.23 to 0.85 and Overdrafts, a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 years 2013: 0.9 years.
Total net Cash and cash banks and Debenture million equivalents other loans loans debt cash 2014 2013 Balance 1 January 2013 190.4 100.0 149.4 59.0 Weighted average Weighted Cash flow 83.3 149.4 66.1 exercise average Foreign exchange 1.7 1.7 price exercise price Schemes not requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Balance 31 December 2013 105.4 100.0 5.4 Outstanding at beginning of year 25,183,282 47,967,069 Cash flow 106.1 106.1 Granted during the year 4,329,016 4,677,791 Foreign exchange 1.3 1.3 Lapsed during the year 1,768,421 14,129,453 Balance 31 December 2014 212.8 100.0 112.8 Exercised during the year 11,037,616 13,332,125 Cancellations during the year 29.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments General Outstanding at the end of the year 16,706,261 25,183,282 The Group in the normal course of business has given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating Exercisable at the end of the year 12,961,419 to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures.
These conditional awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
The Group takes legal advice The weighted average share price at the date of exercise across all options exercised during the period was 1.20 2013: 0.99. as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
132 133 133 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments continued For share plans with non-market conditions granted during the current and preceding year, the fair value of the awards at grant date was determined using the Binomial model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average share price 1.17 0.94 Weighted average exercise price 0.67 0.58 Expected volatility 34% 39% Expected life 3 5 years 3 5 years Risk free rate 1.5% 1.1% Expected dividend yield 5.7% 0.8% The weighted average fair value of share awards granted during the year is 0.52 2013: 0.49.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term.
For share awards with market conditions granted during the current year, the fair value of the awards was determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average share price 1.25 0.83 Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Expected volatility 34% 40% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 0.8% 0.5% Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.9% The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the year is 0.79 2013: 0.54.
The expected life used in the model is based on historical exercise patterns.
The Group recognised total expenses of 6.2 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2014 2013: 6.4 million.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The pension schemes of the Group are related parties.
Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes are disclosed in Note 21.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The Group has loans with joint ventures that are detailed in Note 13.
On 1 November 2014, the Chief Executive was appointed as a non executive director of Travis Perkins Plc.
During the year, the Group directly purchased from Travis Perkins Plc goods to the value of 14.7 million.
In addition, indirect purchases through sub-contractors amounted to 10.4 million.
Any residual purchases made at a local level are not material to either party.
All transactions were completed on an arms-length basis.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies purchases from joint ventures totalled nil 2013: nil and sales to joint ventures totalled 12.2 million 2013: 14.8 million.
134 134 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments continued Remuneration of key management personnel For share plans with non-market conditions granted during the current and preceding year, the fair value of the awards at grant date The key management personnel of the Group are the members of the Group Management Team GMT as presented on page 11.
The was determined using the Binomial model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: remuneration information for the three Executive Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 78.
The aggregate compensation for the other five 2013: five members of the GMT is as follows: 2014 2013 000 2014 2013 Weighted average share price 1.17 0.94 Short term employee benefits 2,697 2,287 Weighted average exercise price 0.67 0.58 Post-employment benefits 249 206 Expected volatility 34% 39% Other long term benefits Expected life 3 5 years 3 5 years Termination benefits 153 Risk free rate 1.5% 1.1% Total excluding share based payments charge 3,099 2,493 Expected dividend yield 5.7% 0.8% Anne Billson-Ross replaced Maria Pilfold as Group HR Director during the year.
There was no other change in the composition of the GMT.
The weighted average fair value of share awards granted during the year is 0.52 2013: 0.49.
In addition to the amounts above, a share-based payments charge of 349,000 2013: 501,000 related to share options held by members Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 33.
Dividends million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Proposed Weighted average share price 1.25 0.83 Interim dividend 2014 0.24p 2013: 0.22p per ordinary share of 1p each 7.8 6.9 Weighted average exercise price Nil Nil Final dividend 2014 1.32p 2013: 0.47p per ordinary share of 1p each 42.9 15.2 Expected volatility 34% 40% 50.7 22.1 Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk free rate 0.8% 0.5% Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.9% Paid Final dividend 2013 0.47p 2012: 0.43p per ordinary share of 1p each 15.2 13.9 The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the year is 0.79 2013: 0.54.
Interim dividend 2014 0.24p 2013: 0.22p per ordinary share of 1p each 7.8 6.9 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term.
The expected Special dividend 2014 1.54p 2013: nil per ordinary share of 1p each 49.7 life used in the model is based on historical exercise patterns.
72.7 20.8 The Group recognised total expenses of 6.2 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2014 2013: 6.4 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 1.32 pence per share subject to shareholder approval 32.
Related party transactions at the Annual General Meeting, with an equivalent final dividend charge of 42.9 million 2013: 15.2 million.
The final dividend will be paid Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not on 20 May 2015 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 10 April 2015. disclosed in this note.
Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes The Directors additionally recommend a special dividend of 250.0 million subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Group has loans with joint ventures The special dividend will be paid on 3 July 2015 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 22 May 2015. that are detailed in Note 13.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date the proposed final or special dividends have not been accrued as a liability On 1 November 2014, the Chief Executive was appointed as a non executive director of Travis Perkins Plc.
During the year, the Group as at 31 December 2014. directly purchased from Travis Perkins Plc goods to the value of 14.7 million.
