Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate B comprising equity securities as defined in the Companies attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, Act 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,689,743 such you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately amount to be reduced by any shares and rights to subscribe from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other for or convert any security into shares allotted under independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services paragraph A above in connection with an offer by way and Markets Act 2000. of a rights issue: If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor i to or dinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together be practicable to their existing holdings: and with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, ii to holders of other equity securities as r equired by the or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you considers necessary: have sold or transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, please consult the person who arranged the sale and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions ortransfer.
and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, Notice is hereby given of the eightieth Annual General Meeting record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under of the Company to be held on 23 April 2015 at 11:00 am at the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities TheBritish Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, to apply until the end of the Annual General Meeting of the London, WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: Company in 2016 or, if earlier, until the close of business on Ordinary Business 22 July 2016 but, in each case, so that the Company may make Ordinary Resolutions: offers and enter into agreements during thisperiod which would, 1.
T o receive the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report, or might, require shares to be allotted orrights to subscribe for Strategic Report, the Auditors Report and the Financial or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. ends: and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or 2.
T o declare due and payable on 20 May 2015 a final dividend agreement as if the authority had notended.
of 1.32 pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 to shareholders on the register at Special Resolutions: close of business on 10 April 2015.
That, if r esolution 14 is passed, the Board be given the power to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 3.
T o declare due and payable on 3 July 2015 a special dividend of for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to 7.68 pence per ordinary share of the Company to shareholders sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for on the register at close of business on 22 May 2015. cash, free of the restriction in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of tr easury 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
shares for cash in connection with an offer of or invitation 6.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
to apply for equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B of resolution 14, by way of a 7.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker DBE.
i to or dinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 10.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as r equired by the rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise 11.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
T o re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or accounts are laid before the Company.
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 13.
Subject to the passing of r esolution 12, to authorise the Audit record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and behalf of the Board.
B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A 14.
That the Boar d be generally and unconditionally authorised of resolution 14 and or in the case of any sale of treasury to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under for or convert any security into shares in the Company: paragraph A above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 1,626,730, such power to apply until the A up to a nominal amount of 10,844,871 such amount to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities in 2016 or, if earlier, until the close of business on 22 July as defined in the Companies Act 2006 allotted under 2016, but during this period the Company may make offers, paragraph B below, in excess of 10,844,871 : and and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends: and the Board may allot equity 144 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or donations, political parties, independent election agreement as if the power had not ended.
candidates, political organisation and political expenditure have the meanings given by Sections 363 to 365 of the 16.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 Companies Act 2006. of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of 19.
That the sale of Vivienda 5-5, Parcela A, Urbanizacin 38, the ordinary shares of 1p each of the Company ordinary Servera Deya, Es Port Vell, 07559 Son Servera, Mallorca, shares, provided that: by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. for the sum of 484,500, to Mr Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, be A the maximum number of or dinary shares hereby authorised hereby approved.
to be purchased shall be 325,346,100: Special Resolutions: B the minimum price which may be paid for or dinary shares 20.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting is 1p per ordinary share: of the Company may continue to be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the highest of: Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle out on pages 148 to 151. market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from Action to be taken the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in business days immediately preceding the date on which person, please bring with you the attendance card accompanying such ordinary share is purchased: and this document.
It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and Registration will be available from 9:30 am on the day of the meeting.
the highest independent bid on the trading venues where For the safety and comfort of those attending the meeting, large the purchase is carried out: bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be D the authority her eby conferred shall expire at the earlier allowed into the building and in the interests of security, by attending of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the the meeting, upon request, you hereby agree to be searched together Company in 2016 and 22 October 2016 unless such with any bags and other possessions.
The meeting will commence at authority is renewed prior to such time: and 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
There is wheelchair access E the Company may make contracts to pur chase ordinary to the venue for shareholders who require it or those with reduced shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the mobility.
However, where required, attendees are strongly advised to expiry of such authority which will or may be executed bring their own carers to assist with their general mobility around the wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and venue.
An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
may purchase ordinary shares in pursuance of any such Directions to the venue can be found on the reverse of your contracts, as if the authority conferred by this resolution attendance card.
If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the Special Business Annual General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to Ordinary Resolutions: you with this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 In order for it to count, the registrar must receive it by no later than to 85 for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
If you prefer, you can submit your proxy 18.
That in accor dance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies electronically either via the internet at www.
com Act 2006, the Company and all companies which are its or, if you are a CREST member, through the CREST system by subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to: completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
A make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 250,000 Recommendation in aggregate: Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the B make political donations to political organisations other than Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and vote in favour of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of all C incur political expenditur e not exceeding 250,000 in of his or her own beneficial shareholding.
aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016.
For the purposes of this resolution the terms political 145 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Inspection of documents The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR, during normal business hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Independent Non Executive Directors: and a copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014, including the Directors Remuneration Report referred to in resolution 17, is also available on our website www.
co. uk corporate By Order of the Board James Jordan Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey plc Registered Office: Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 2 March 2015 146
