Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk Notes to the Notice of Meeting Procedural notes 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 1.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an the votes which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have on 21 April 2015 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment Shareholders then on the Register of Members shall be entitled right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should direct any Changes to entries on the relevant Register of Members after communications and enquiries to the registered holder of the that deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of shares by whom they were nominated and not to the Company any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
As at 4 Mar ch 2015 being the latest practicable date prior 7.
The statement of the rights of shar eholders in relation to the to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share appointment of proxies in notes 3 and 4 above does not apply capital consisted of 3,253,461,531 ordinary shares, carrying one to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a pr oxy or proxies through 3.
If you ar e a shareholder of the Company at the time and date the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, on your behalf at the meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
In or der for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend CREST service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
A proxy form in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy specifications, and must contain the information required instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual form and believe that you should have one, or if you require available via www.
The message, additional forms, please contact Capita Asset Services as soon regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a as possible on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Monday to appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as Friday.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment 21 April 2015.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in joint holdings the first-named being the most senior.
the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change 4.
T o be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should proxy must be received by Capita Asset Services at PXS 1, 34 be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or, if you want 10.
CREST members and, wher e applicable, their CREST sponsors to use an envelope the address to use is simply FREEPOST or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and CAPITA PXS, or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures www.
com or, if you are a member of CREST, in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of the electronic address provided in note 9, in each case no later CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST than 11:00 am on 21 April 2015.
Please note that all forms of member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a proxy received after this time will be void.
A form of proxy sent CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has electronically at any time that is found to contain any virus will appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST not be accepted.
sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall 5.
The r eturn of a completed proxy form, other such instrument be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means or any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in notes 8 of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, and 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
147 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued 11.
The Company may tr eat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction Explanatory notes to the resolutions in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Ordinary Business Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or mor e Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all to be in favour.
of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements in relation to the same shares.
English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section 2014 and the reports of the Directors, namely the Strategic have the right to require the Company to publish on a website Report, Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration a statement setting out any matter relating to: Report: and Auditors: before a general meeting of the Company the Annual Report.
i the audit of the Company s accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend before the Annual General Meeting: or The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.32 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. ii any cir cumstance connected with an auditor of the If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting on 20 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the Register of at which annual accounts and reports were laid in Members at the close of business on 10 April 2015. accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 3: To declare a Special Dividend The Company may not r equire the shareholders requesting any Taylor Wimpey has announced its intention to return cash to its such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with shareholders, through the payment of annual Special Dividends, Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the always subject to market and performance fluctuations.
The first Company is required to place a statement on a website under such dividend was paid in 2014 at the rate of 1.54 pence per share.
Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when The Company now proposes a much larger Special Dividend for it makes the statement available on the website.
The business 2015, at the rate of 7.68 pence per share, and believes it is which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes appropriate to seek prior shareholder approval for its payment.
any statement that the Company has been required under Further details on the rationale for paying Special Dividends and Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
the link to the Companys current strategy, can be found on pages 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions 12 and 16. and participate in the meeting.
The Company must cause to be The aggregate cost of the Special Dividend for 2015 will be around answered any such question relating to the business being dealt 250 million and will be met from profits and surplus cash generated with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do during 2015.
If approved, it will be paid on 3 July 2015 to shareholders so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2015. involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to Dividend Re-Investment Plan a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company Subject to shareholders approving either or both of the dividends or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
as set out in Resolutions 2 and 3 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 23 April 2015, the Company will be offering a Dividend 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information r equired by Re-Investment Plan DRIP on each one.
The DRIP is provided and Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found administered by the DRIP plan administrator, Capita IRG Trustees at www.
co. uk corporate Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 16.
V oting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting Authority FCA.
The DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to will be conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of elect to invest cash dividends received on their ordinary shares, in hands.
The Board believes that a poll is more representative purchasing further ordinary shares of the Company.
These shares of shareholders voting intentions because it gives as many would be bought in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend counted whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance for 2014 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future of, or in person at, the Annual General Meeting.
The results of dividends, including Special Dividends, until such time as you the poll will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP is suspended or terminated and made available at www.
co. uk corporate as in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
soon as practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
Important: Please Read: Action May Be Required: Please note that if you have already elected to participate in the DRIP, unless you take positive action to cancel your participation, the DRIP will operate automatically in respect of this and future special dividends, as it does already for interim and final dividends.
148 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk It is therefore very important to note that a DRIP election or the Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
revocation of a DRIP election, received or already in place 25 days Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously before a dividend payment date will apply to all future dividends, Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography whether interim, final or special dividends, until such time as a valid appears on page 44 and there is additional information on page 53. new election or revocation of an election is received.
Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
To assist, please note the following important dates: Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010.
His biography appears on page 44 and there is additional Final dividend: information on page 53.
Record date Friday 10 April 2015 James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
Last day for DRIP elections to apply, or to revoke an election, James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is to the 2014 Final Dividend Saturday 25 April 2015 also the Group Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007.
His biography appears on page 44 and there is additional Pay date Wednesday 20 May 2015 information on page 53.
Special dividend: Kate Barker DBE offers herself for re-election.
Record date Friday 22 May 2015 Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since April Last day for DRIP elections to apply, or revoke an election, 2011.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent in to the 2015 Special Dividend Monday 8 June 2015 character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit: Nomination and Remuneration Committees, Pay date Friday 3 July 2015 and that her other commitments do not detract from the extent or Please note than an election or revocation of an election applies quality of time which she is able to devote to the Company.
Her to all dividends thereafter until such time as further instructions biography appears on page 44 and there is additional information are received, on page 53.
CREST Baroness Ford of Cunninghame offers herself for re-election.
For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that Margaret has been an Independent Non Executive Director since elections continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election April 2013.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be must be made, via CREST, for each dividend.
independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Remuneration Committee Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions which she Chairs and Nomination Committee, and that her other required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which Maintenance Dividends i. e. in this case, the 2014 Final Dividend and she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on any Special Dividends, are available at www.
com page 44 and there is additional information on page 54. or on request from the Registrar, Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, e-mail: shares@ Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2011.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character Resolutions 4 to 11: Election of Directors and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which states and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that his other that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Directors he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves 44 and there is additional information on page 54. for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since in the Companys shares and other securities are given in the January 2010 and the Senior Independent Director since April Directors Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 66 to 85 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to be independent of the Report and Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning in character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings each Director is on pages 44 and 45 of the Report and Accounts.
of the Board and of the Audit Committee which he Chairs and The following summary information is given in support of the Boards the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that his other proposal for the re-election of the Directors of the Company: commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
45 and there is additional information on page 54.
Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently standard including at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination been subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are Committee which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and set out in the Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality on pages 46 to 55, and that each continues to demonstrate of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography commitment and to be an effective member of the Board.
In appears on page 44 and there is additional information on page 53. compliance with provision B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chairman hereby confirms that, following the formal performance evaluation referred to above, the performance of each of the Non Executive Directors continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
149 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued Resolution 12: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte the Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first as auditors of the Company offeringthem to existing shareholders in proportion to their .
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore This authority would be, similar to previous years, limited to proposed that the auditors are appointed from the conclusion of the allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers 2015 Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
Following an shares or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise annual review of Deloittes performance, details of which are set out up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,626,730 representing on page 62, the Board recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte 162,673,000 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount as the Companys auditors.
represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2015, the latest practicable date Resolution 13: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree prior to publication of this notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditors The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions to determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period for their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should of which are given in the Audit Committee Report.
Details of nonnot take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
audit services performed by Deloitte in 2014 are given in Note 6 The authority will expire at the earlier of 22 July 2016 and the on page 110 of the Report and Accounts.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company Resolution 14: Authority to allot shares held in 2016.
The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued Resolution 16: Authority to make market purchases of shares shares in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more Annual General Meeting held on 17 April 2014 and is due to expire tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, shares of the Company in issue at the close of business on Paragraph A of resolution 14 would give the Directors the authority 4 March 2015. to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority equal to 10,844,871 representing 1,084,487,100 ordinary shares.
would not exceed the highest of i 105% of the average of the This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2015, the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice of meeting.
and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association formerly purchase is carried out.
Shares purchased pursuant to these the Association of British Insurers TIA, paragraph B of resolution authorities could be held as treasury shares, which the Company can 14would give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, and provides the Company with rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The total in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders number of shares held as treasury shall not at any one time exceed up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 21,689,743 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any shares representing 2,168,974,300 ordinary shares, as reduced by the bought back over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The Company nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of currently holds no shares in treasury.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed Company as at 4 March 2015, the latest practicable date prior to companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention publication of this notice of meeting.
of utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the various share scheme arrangements.
The Board would only consider The Company does not hold any shares in Treasury.
a more formal share purchase programme if it would result in an The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution 14 increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders generally, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
will expire at the earlier of 22 July 2016 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2016.
The total number of options and conditional share awards to The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business authorities sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise on 4 March 2015 was 42,999,919, representing approximately 1.3% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the authorities, the Directors intend to follow TIA recommendations that date and approximately 1.5% of the Companys issued ordinary concerning their use including as regards the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
share capital following any exercise in full of this authority to make market purchases.
Special Resolutions Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast This authority will last until the earlier of 22 October 2016 and the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2016. to be cast in favour.
Special Business Resolution 15: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights The Board wishes to renew the existing authority from shareholders Ordinary Resolutions to allot shares or sell any shares held in treasury for cash otherwise Resolution 17: Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution 15, The Directors are required to prepare an annual report detailing the which will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour, would give the Directors remuneration of the Directors and a statement by the Chairman of the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Remuneration Committee together the Directors Remuneration 150 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
The Company is required to seek shareholders approval in single storey terraced house.
In addition, the purchase includes the respect of the contents of this report on an annual basis.
The vote is supply of standard optional fitted extras, available routinely to an advisory one.
independent purchasers on similar commercial terms, comprising domestic electrical appliances for the kitchen and fixtures for the The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders bathroom.
The purchase price was agreed following a rigorous review at last years AGM and remains unchanged.
In such circumstances, of the prices already obtained in the open market for similar the Policy need not be re-submitted to shareholders for three years properties, less a discount of 5 per cent.
pursuant to the Companys unless amendments are proposed to it and accordingly, there is employee discount scheme.
Other than the standard employee no equivalent resolution at this years AGM.
discount, the price being paid by Pete Redfern assumes that the The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 66 to 85 of transaction is an arms length sale.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
The calculation of the price payable by Mr. Redfern excluding VAT is as follows: The Companys current Remuneration Policy is available on the Companys web site at: www.
co. uk corporate investorPrice upon reservation January 2015 : 510,000 relations corporate-governance Standard employee discount 5% available Resolution 18: Authority to make political donations to all Taylor Wimpey employees: 25,500 In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 Price payable by Pete Redfern excluding extras : 484,500 and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes to renew its existing authority for a general level of political Extras at full price: 5,816 donation and or expenditure.
Resolution 18 seeks to renew the Total price payable by Pete Redfern: 490,316 existing authority for the Company to make political donations and Standard reservation fee paid: 6,000 incur political expenditure.
The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three heads as set out in Resolution 18 Balance to be paid by Pete Redfern with a separate amount specified as permitted for each.
An amount if shareholder approval is given : 484,316 not exceeding 250,000 for each head of the authority has been proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution The agreement between Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. and Pete 18 extends approval to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
Redfern will be a standard form sale and purchase agreement used by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. for the Costa Beach This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General development.
Pete Redfern has paid a standard reservation fee to Meeting of the Company in 2016, unless renewal is sought at Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. prior to the Annual General Meeting that meeting.
but the transaction shall be subject to obtaining shareholder approval.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political The terms of the proposed purchase have been subjected to the parties or organisations and do not intend to going forward, but do usual level of scrutiny and review applied to proposed purchases support certain industry-wide bodies such as the Home Builders by other employees, has included a review by Internal Audit and Federation in the UK.
Whilst the Board does not regard this as also by the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
political in nature, in certain circumstances such support together with donations made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly The Board believes the terms of the proposed agreement are fair be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant and reasonable and that the price being paid by Pete Redfern will provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to be the market value of the Costa Beach property less the standard a humanitarian charity which may also operate as a political lobby, discount of 5 per cent.
as described above as at the date of sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fulfilling public exchange of contracts.
duties and payments to industry representative bodies could Special Resolution constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current Resolution 20: Notice of general meetings definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations to be cast in favour.
appear on page 90 of the Report and Accounts.
This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Resolution 19: Substantial property transaction Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice Mr. Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, intends to enter into period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days a contract to purchase Vivienda 5-5, Parcela A, Urbanizacin 38, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot Servera Deya, Es Port Vell, 07559 Son Servera, Mallorca, at Taylor be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, a Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. s development at Costa Beach, Port Vell, resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general Mallorca for the sum of 484,500 subject to approval having been meetings other than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to obtained for the transaction from the Companys shareholders at be held on at least 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear the Annual General Meeting, from Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. days notice.
As this approval will expire at the conclusion of this a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Annual General Meeting, Resolution 20 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days would not be used as a matter As the transaction is in excess of 100,000, it constitutes a of routine for any general meeting, but only where the flexibility is substantial property transaction with a Director of the Company merited by the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be under sections 190 and 191 of the Companies Act 2006 and to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The renewed approval therefore requires the prior approval of shareholders, which is being will be effective until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2016, sought at this Annual General Meeting.
when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Costa Beach development comprises a residential scheme built Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than by Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U.
The purchase price being paid 21 clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting by Pete Redfern is 484,500 representing 353,650 at the exchange make available electronic voting to all shareholders.
rate of 1 1.37 on 4 March 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the completion of this Notice of Meeting for the purchase of a 151
