NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control Exchange differences arising from a monetary item receivable 1 Summary of significant accounting policies Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are estimates and assumptions that affect the application of these consolidated and parent Financial Statements are set as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
The estimates and associated assumptions all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
are based on historical experience and various other factors convertible are taken into account.
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, d Revenue recognition a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are included in the results of which form the basis of making the judgements Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods provided in Both the consolidated and parent Financial Statements have the consolidated Financial Statements from the date that about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jointly readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ other sales related taxes.
Retail revenue is recognised when with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the from these estimates.
a Group entity sells a product to the customer.
Wholesale the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and title Financial Statements here together with the consolidated and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for strategic The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing has passed.
Licence income receivable from licencees are Financial Statements, the Company is taking advantage of the basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in financial and operating decisions.
Jointly controlled entities accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted licence agreement, which is typically on the basis of a present its individual income statement and related notes that investees and are initially recognised at cost.
affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and minimum payment and a variable amount based on turnover.
form a part of these approved Financial Statements.
future periods if the revision affects both current and future The consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups periods.
The Groups significant judgement areas relate to The Group sells retail products with the right of return and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely share of the total recognised income and expense and equity inventory provisions and impairment of assets.
experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of to affect its future development, performance and position are movements of equity accounted investees, from the date such returns at the time of sale when considered significant.
The financial position of the Group, that significant influence or joint control commences until Revised and amended standards and interpretations Credit notes or exchanges are available to customers its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the date that significant influence or control ceases.
When returning unwanted products with proof of purchase within The following revised IFRS has been adopted in these Financial described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5.
In the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity 28 days of the date of purchase.
The application of this IFRS has not had any addition, Note 22 to the Financial Statements includes the accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced material impact on the amounts reported for the current and Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its to nil and recognition of further losses is discounted except Sale of gift vouchers are treated as future liabilities, and prior years: capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive revenue is recognised when the gift vouchers are redeemed financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
IAS 1, Amendments to Presentation of Financial Statements to credit risk and liquidity risk.
effective 1 July 2012, requires that an entity present c Foreign currency separately the items of other comprehensive income that may e Leases As highlighted in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the be reclassified to the income statement in future from those Rentals under operating leases are charged as incurred, unless company meets its day-to-day working capital requirements respective functional currencies of Group entities at the that would never be reclassified to the income statement.
there are pre-determined rental increases in the lease, in which through an overdraft facility which is due for renewal on foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
case they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease 1 March 2015.
The Company will open renewal negotiations There were no other new standards, interpretations or Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign with the bank in due course and has, at this stage, not sought term.
Leasehold incentives received are recognised as an amendments to standards issued and effective for the year currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to integral part of total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
any written commitment that the facility will be renewed.
which materially impacted the Groups Financial Statements.
functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that However, the Company has held discussion with its bankers date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of about its future borrowing needs and no matters have been The Group does not consider that any other standards, recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets revenue achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued drawn to its attention to suggest that renewal may not be amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are for on that basis.
yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the Financial stated at fair value are translated to functional currency at Statements in future years.
foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were The Groups intangible asset, as shown in Note 10, relates to The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account determined.
leased premises which have a guaranteed residual value.
The reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show b Basis of consolidation guaranteed value arises because the next tenant, based on that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including current market conditions, will pay this amount to the Group.
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the consequence the directors have a reasonable expectation goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, Due to the likelihood that the money will be recoverable, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 25 that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling January 2014.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method asset is not amortised.
their business risks and to continue in operational existence at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain of foreign operations are translated to sterling at average f Pension costs results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the directors continue foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
the year are included in the consolidated Financial Statements to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated Contributions payable to defined contribution schemes in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
respect of pension costs and other post retirement benefits are the transition date are recognised directly in a separate charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed The consolidated and parent Financial Statements have been which they relate.
Differences between contributions payable on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign currency prepared under the historical cost convention, except for in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
instruments, which are held at fair value.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 53 54 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS g Share based payments Cash flow hedges Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected The Group operates an equity settled share based Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful changes in margins.
Management use a pre-tax discount rate compensation plan.
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are Internal forecasts reflect the current market assessment and Share options and conditional share awards effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: risks specific to the cash-generating units.
Changes in selling in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Share options granted under the Sharesave scheme and the prices and direct costs are based on past experience and Key money: Indefinite Ted Baker Plc Long-Term Incentive Plan are measured at fair expectations of future changes in the market.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge value at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes and Monte Computer Software: 4 years accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then Carlo pricing models respectively.
The pricing models take into Computer Software under development: 57.5 years.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative account the terms and conditions of the options awards vesting.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive l Property, plant and equipment The grant date fair value is expensed on a straight line basis at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable income remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
over the vesting period i. e. the period in which the employees Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of cash flows cash-generating units.
Where an impairment loss When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount become unconditionally entitled to share options awards based accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to on an estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of but so that the increased carrying value does not exceed the other cases the amount recognised in other comprehensive Value Creation Plan each asset over its expected useful life, on the following bases: carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment income is transferred to profit or loss in the same period that loss had been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal The Group operated a Value Creation Plan VCP which vested Leasehold improvements: straight line over the period the hedged item affects profit or loss.
in full in the year ended 26 January 2013.
The VCP awarded of an impairment loss is recognised in income immediately.
of the lease: entitlements to certain employees and directors of the Group.
i Taxation Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: 20% to 25% o Inventories In August 2012 these entitlements converted into options over Corporation tax payable is recognised on taxable profits per annum on a straight-line basis apart from computer ordinary shares subject to the Groups share price reaching Inventories and work in progress are stated at the lower of using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the equipment, which is 33% per annum on a straight-line basis: certain targets.
The fair value of the amount payable to the cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes materials, direct balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using Motor vehicles: 25% per annum on a straight-line basis: employee was recognised as an expense with a corresponding labour and inward transportation costs.
Net realisable value is the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences increase in equity.
The fair value was initially recognised at the Assets under construction: assets in the course of based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their date of the award of the entitlements and spread over the period construction are stated at cost less any provision for to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements.
during which the entitlements were convertible into ordinary impairment and transferred to completed assets when obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition shares.
The fair value of those entitlements was based on a substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business Monte Carlo valuation model, taking into account the terms and to be ready for use have occurred.
p Cash and cash equivalents combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have money market deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An Shares of Ted Baker Plc held by the Company for the purpose been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its of filling obligations in respect of employee share plans are management are included as a component of cash and cash date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
than its estimated recoverable amount.
deficit arising on the sale of the Ted Baker Plc shares held by the Company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing q Interest-bearing borrowings relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair not reverse in the foreseeable future.
included in the income statement.
Trust EBT are treated as being those of the Company and are value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial therefore reflected in the Parent Company and Group Financial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is m Investments Statements.
In particular, the EBTs purchases and sales of shares cost with any difference between cost and redemption value probable that future taxable profit will be available against in the Company are debited and credited directly to equity.
Investments in subsidiaries by the Company are shown being recognised in the income statement over the period of which the temporary differences can be utilised.
at cost less accumulated impairment losses which are the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to recognised in the income statement.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual r Finance income and expenses to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Financial Statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its n Impairment of property, plant and equipment equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Income tax Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment and indefinite life intangible assets comprises current and deferred tax.
calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest charge recognised in its consolidated Financial Statements with receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
j Dividend distribution exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on hedging whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is h Derivatives recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount recognised as a liability in the Group and Company Financial The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its Interest income is recognised in the income statement as exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable Statements in the period in which it is declared.
Derivatives are recognised initially it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in income is recognised in the income statement on the date and value in use.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units k Intangible assets profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the entitys right to receive payments is established which in are based on value in use, which is calculated from cash flow Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein the case of quoted securities is usually the ex-dividend date.
projections using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
are accounted for as described below.
the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 55 56
