NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control Exchange differences arising from a monetary item receivable 1 Summary of significant accounting policies Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are estimates and assumptions that affect the application of these consolidated and parent Financial Statements are set as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
The estimates and associated assumptions all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
are based on historical experience and various other factors convertible are taken into account.
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, d Revenue recognition a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are included in the results of which form the basis of making the judgements Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods provided in Both the consolidated and parent Financial Statements have the consolidated Financial Statements from the date that about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance control commences until the date that control ceases.
Jointly readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ other sales related taxes.
Retail revenue is recognised when with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the from these estimates.
a Group entity sells a product to the customer.
Wholesale the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and title Financial Statements here together with the consolidated and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for strategic The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing has passed.
Licence income receivable from licencees are Financial Statements, the Company is taking advantage of the basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in financial and operating decisions.
Jointly controlled entities accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted licence agreement, which is typically on the basis of a present its individual income statement and related notes that investees and are initially recognised at cost.
affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and minimum payment and a variable amount based on turnover.
form a part of these approved Financial Statements.
future periods if the revision affects both current and future The consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups periods.
The Groups significant judgement areas relate to The Group sells retail products with the right of return and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely share of the total recognised income and expense and equity inventory provisions and impairment of assets.
experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of to affect its future development, performance and position are movements of equity accounted investees, from the date such returns at the time of sale when considered significant.
The financial position of the Group, that significant influence or joint control commences until Revised and amended standards and interpretations Credit notes or exchanges are available to customers its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the date that significant influence or control ceases.
When returning unwanted products with proof of purchase within The following revised IFRS has been adopted in these Financial described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5.
In the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity 28 days of the date of purchase.
The application of this IFRS has not had any addition, Note 22 to the Financial Statements includes the accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced material impact on the amounts reported for the current and Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its to nil and recognition of further losses is discounted except Sale of gift vouchers are treated as future liabilities, and prior years: capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive revenue is recognised when the gift vouchers are redeemed financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
IAS 1, Amendments to Presentation of Financial Statements to credit risk and liquidity risk.
effective 1 July 2012, requires that an entity present c Foreign currency separately the items of other comprehensive income that may e Leases As highlighted in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the be reclassified to the income statement in future from those Rentals under operating leases are charged as incurred, unless company meets its day-to-day working capital requirements respective functional currencies of Group entities at the that would never be reclassified to the income statement.
there are pre-determined rental increases in the lease, in which through an overdraft facility which is due for renewal on foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
case they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease 1 March 2015.
The Company will open renewal negotiations There were no other new standards, interpretations or Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign with the bank in due course and has, at this stage, not sought term.
Leasehold incentives received are recognised as an amendments to standards issued and effective for the year currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to integral part of total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
any written commitment that the facility will be renewed.
which materially impacted the Groups Financial Statements.
functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that However, the Company has held discussion with its bankers date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of about its future borrowing needs and no matters have been The Group does not consider that any other standards, recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets revenue achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued drawn to its attention to suggest that renewal may not be amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are for on that basis.
yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the Financial stated at fair value are translated to functional currency at Statements in future years.
foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values were The Groups intangible asset, as shown in Note 10, relates to The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account determined.
leased premises which have a guaranteed residual value.
The reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show b Basis of consolidation guaranteed value arises because the next tenant, based on that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including current market conditions, will pay this amount to the Group.
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the consequence the directors have a reasonable expectation goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, Due to the likelihood that the money will be recoverable, the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 25 that the Company and the Group are well placed to manage are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling January 2014.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method asset is not amortised.
their business risks and to continue in operational existence at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain of foreign operations are translated to sterling at average f Pension costs results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the directors continue foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
the year are included in the consolidated Financial Statements to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated Contributions payable to defined contribution schemes in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
respect of pension costs and other post retirement benefits are the transition date are recognised directly in a separate charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed The consolidated and parent Financial Statements have been which they relate.
Differences between contributions payable on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign currency prepared under the historical cost convention, except for in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
instruments, which are held at fair value.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 53 54
