DIRECTORS REPORT: OTHER STATUTORy DISCLOSURES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMbERS OF TED bAkER PLC ONLy sTaTeMenT oF DirecTors resPonsiBiliTies Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also oPinions anD conclusions arisinG FroM The risk: The Group has invested a significant amount of capital responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, outside the UK in its retail store portfolio.
Given the relative in resPecT oF The annual rePorT anD The our auDiT Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period is Financial sTaTeMenTs 1.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is unmodified Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
typically longer than for UK stores and it is not uncommon for The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We have audited the Financial Statements of Ted Baker Plc new stores in overseas territories - as is anticipated in the original and the Group and Parent company Financial Statements in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and for the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2014 set out on pages business case - to make losses in their start up phase.
The level accordance with applicable law and regulations.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 47 to 82.
In our opinion: of judgment involved in assessing impairment indicators on on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing recently opened retail stores in foreign markets is one of the the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements key judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs Parent company Financial Statements for each financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
as at 25 January 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group our response: Our audit procedures included, among year then ended: Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of others, challenging the Directors on the evidence on which by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements have been properly this report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: they based their assessment as to when an impairment the parent company Financial Statements on the same basis.
prepared in accordance with International Financial indicator exists for loss making stores and therefore a need each of the Group and Parent company Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union for impairment testing arises.
This included comparing the Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS gives Under company law the directors must not approve the IFRSs as adopted by the EU : performance of retail stores to the original business case, a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give the Parent company Financial Statements have been comparing relative performance of stores within each position and profit or loss of the issuer and the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted region and considering whether the Directors assessment undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In by the EU and as applied in accordance with the was in line with our overall understanding of the maturity whole: and preparing each of the Group and parent company Financial provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and of the brand in each location.
We have also considered the management report on pages 7 to 12 includes a Statements, the directors are required to: the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the Financial Statements have been prepared in fair review of the development and performance of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them impairment of retail fixed assets.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act the business and the position of the company and the consistently: 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Legal claim Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and prudent: Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 and uncertainties that they face.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement state whether they have been prepared in accordance accounting policy note and page 82 financial disclosures.
In addition, all directors consider that the Annual Report, taken In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Financial with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and The risk: The Group is pursuing a claim against its previous as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Statements the risks of material misstatement that had the prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern insurers for loss of profit arising from the theft of inventory the information necessary for shareholders to assess the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the from its warehouse from 2004 to 2008.
The level of judgment companys performance, business model and strategy.
Group and the Parent company will continue in business.
Valuation of inventory involved in determining the recognition and amount of any On behalf of the Board contingent asset arising from a successful outcome of Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting accounting policy note and page 69 financial disclosures.
the claim or any unrecognised contingent liability should records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent the Group be unsuccessful in its claim is one of the key companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy r s kelvin l D Page The risk: Inventory is carried in the Financial Statements at the judgemental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
at any time the financial position of the parent company and Chief Executive Finance Director lower of cost and net realisable value.
Sales in the fashion industry enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply can be extremely volatile with consumer demand changing 20 March 2014 20 March 2014 our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility significantly based on current trends.
As a result there is a risk that challenging the Directors on the evidence on which they for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to the carrying value of inventory exceeds its net realisable value.
based their assessment of the outcome of the claim.
We safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect inspected the latest reports from forensic expert witnesses our response: Our audit procedures included, among others, fraud and other irregularities.
for both parties, inspected relevant correspondence from the challenging the adequacy of the Groups provisions against courts.
We also assessed the experience and professional inventory by seasonal collection which we corroborated on a sample standing of the Groups external counsel.
basis by testing that items on the stock ageing listing by season were classified in the appropriate ageing bracket.
We assessed We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups the appropriateness of the provision percentages applied to each disclosures in respect of the claim.
season and challenged the assumptions made by the Directors on the extent to which old inventory can be sold through various 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of channels.
We considered the historical accuracy of provisioning the scope of our audit and used the information obtained as evidence for evaluating the The materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a appropriateness of the assumptions made in the current year including how these compare to the experience in previous years.
This has been determined with We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, in respect of the levels of provisions against inventory.
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing the financial Valuation of retail fixed assets performance of the Group.
Materiality represents 5.91% of Refer to page 15 Audit Committee statement, page 57 Group profit before tax and 5.75% adjusted for exceptional accounting policy note and page 66 financial disclosures.
items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 43 44
