Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC Report on the Parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements, defined below: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs in our opinion: as at 22 February 2014: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and our audit: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Companies Act 2006. or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors of this report.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Tesco PLC, comprise: Directors remuneration the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 22 February 2014: and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified include a summary of significant accounting policies and other by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Other information in the Annual Report comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made Company financial statements: or assumptions and considered future events.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have performing our audit: or been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements is otherwise misleading.
the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit What an audit of financial statements involves Our responsibilities and those of the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes and fair view.
an assessment of: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices and adequately disclosed: Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Other Matter become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC for the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are London prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements: and 2 May 2014 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 131
