Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies General information Use of assumptions and estimates Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires anddomiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014 reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these prior financial year 52 weeks ended 23 February 2013.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an the Republic of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 52 weeks ended ongoing basis.
22 February 2014 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 23 February 2013.
For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended 28 Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation ofthe February 2014 prior financial year ended 28 February 2013. consolidated financial statements include: The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group Depreciation and amortisation are those of retailing and retail banking.
The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
Basis of preparation The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over their estimated The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in useful lives.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS andIFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by Impairment the European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable i Impairment of goodwill to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group financial The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded to the The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units has been determined nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty estimates as set out in Note 10. programmes and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
ii Impairment of assets Discontinued operations The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit for During the period, the Group entered into definitive agreements, subject to impairment testing.
Where there are indicators for impairment, the Group the usual regulatory approvals, with China Resources Enterprise, Limited to performs an impairment test.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating combine respective Chinese retail operations.
The definitive agreements units are based on the higher ofvalue in use and fair value less costs of allow for the exchange of the Groups Chinese retail and property interests disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for generally plus cash of HK$4,325m for a 20% interest in the combined businesses.
five years using data from the Groups latestinternal forecasts.
These calculations require the use of estimates asset out in Note 11.
On 27 November 2013 the Group completed a sale of the substantive part of its US operations to YFE Holdings, Inc. with the remaining assets of the US iii Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks operations being disposed of as part of an orderly restructuring process.
In The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise incurred addition, the exit of the Japanese operations was successfully completed on impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and 1 January 2013. carried at amortised cost.
These calculations require the use of estimates as set out in the accounting policy note for financial instruments.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the net results of these operations for the year are presented Provisions within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement for which Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations, restructuring, the comparatives have been restated and the assets and liabilities of the pensions, and customer redress.
These provisions are estimates and the operations are presented separately in the Group Balance Sheet.
See Note 7 actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to allperiods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has provisions for potential customer redress.
In 2010 11, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA formally issued Policy Statement Basis of consolidation 10 12 PS 10 12, which introduced new guidance in respect of Payment The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial Protection Insurance PPI customer redress and evidential provisions to statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities the FCA Handbook with an implementation date of 1 December 2010. controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of TheGroup continues to handle complaints and redress customers in its interests in joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries During the course of the year the Group identified historic operational issues The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated that had resulted in instances where certain of the requirements of the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date Consumer Credit Act CCA for post contract documentation had not been that control ceases.
While there is no evidence that these issues have caused particular detriment to customers, it is the Groups intention to provide Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and redress to impacted customers in order to reflect the operation of the CCA expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the in respect of the customers liability.
Provision has been recognised for the CCA documentation redress and Joint ventures and associates represents managements best estimate at the reporting date of the cost The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included of providing redress to certain loan and credit card customers.
The Office in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of accounting.
of Fair Trading OFT has been advised of the Groups approach to Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group Balance determining the proposed customer redress.
Oversight of CCA-related Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net matters passed from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014 and the Group assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of expects to formally advise the FCA of the approach.
investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
It is not clear what regulatory position, if any, the FCA will take and as If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds highlighted above, there is no judicial certainty in the legal position.
its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise The actual cost of customer redress could therefore differ materially further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so ormade payments from this estimate.
Refer to Note 24 for further details.
on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The Group is part of an industry wide Scheme of Arrangement established Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are with the support of the relevant regulatory and customer protection bodies eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
to address customer redress relating to the historic sale of certain cardholder protection products CPP to credit card customers.
74 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue The calculation of the provision is based on a series of assumptions including the number and value of cases for which compensation may Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the be paid.
In arriving at these assumptions management have exercised sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
their judgement based on earlier redress programmes and the redress estimates provided independently as part of the industry wide Scheme Sale of goods of Arrangement.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be The calculation of these provisions involves estimating a number of variables, measured reliably.
principally the level of customer complaints which may be received and the level of any compensation which may be payable to customers.
The number of Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
cases on which compensation is ultimately payable may also be influenced by the outcome of the analysis of historical claims referred to above.
A change Provision of services in the estimate of any of the key variables in this calculation could have the Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service is potential to significantly impact the provisions recognised.
provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms of the contract.
Post-employment benefit obligations The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends ona Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the commission income is included within revenue.
number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using anumber of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the netcost income for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions Financial services Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of insurance.
will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
Key assumptions for post-employment benefit obligations are disclosed in Note 26.
Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
Adoption of new and amended International Financial Reporting Standards Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable The Group has adopted the following new and amended standards as of that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on 24 February 2013: acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
IAS 1 amended Financial statement presentation changes the grouping Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment and of items presented in the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through so that items which may be reclassified to income statement in the the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally future are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the is rendered.
Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 19 Employee benefits Revised 2011 amends the accounting The Group generates commission from the sale and service of motor and for employment benefits.
The standard replaces the interest costs home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is a minority of cases by a third party underwriter.
This is based on commission calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability rates which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance asset.
The amendment has reduced profit for the year net of deferred tax policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of white label insurance products underwritten by other third party providers.
by 86m for the year ended 22 February 2014 year ended 23 February 2013: a reduction of 96m.
The comparative financial information has been restated accordingly.
Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives IFRS 13 Fair value measurement establishes a single source of guidance The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over the an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or from revenue.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
IFRS 13 also requires The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair specific disclosures on fair values, some of which replace existing value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard disclosure requirements in other standards, including IFRS 7 deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
IFRS 7 amended Financial instruments: Disclosures requires the Rental income disclosure on rights of offset and related arrangements for financial Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance instruments under an enforceable master netting agreement or with the terms of the lease.
Annual Improvements 2009 2011 which includes changes to Finance income IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, is Presentation, IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting and IAS 16 Property, recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest plant and equipment.
The adoption of these has not had any significant ratemethod.
impact on the amounts reported in the Group financial statements.
Finance costs Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 75 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill Impairment of non-financial assets The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the purchase Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and disposal, and value in use.
When the recoverable amount of the cashcontingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair value.
generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is Non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there are liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of or associate and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity i. e. a discount from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the on acquisition, the difference is credited to the Group Income Statement in cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset costs of disposal.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount business combinations synergies and to the lowest level at which management of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does Intangible assets not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no Acquired intangible assets impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit Separately acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy licences, in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as customer relationships, contracts and brands are measured initially at cost.
a credit to the Group Income Statement.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are Investment property carried at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and useful lives, at 2%-100% of cost per annum.
any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation policies for investment property are consistent with those described for owner-occupied property.
Internally generated intangible assets Research and development expenditure Short-term and other investments Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure incurred Short-term and other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise on an individual project is capitalised only if specific criteria are met including receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
that the asset created will probably generate future economic benefits.
Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
isamortised over the assets estimated useful life at 10%25% of cost perannum.
Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Property, plant and equipment Inventories Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated Inventories comprise goods and properties held for resale and properties held depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
for, or in the course of, development with a view to sell.
Inventories arevalued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell using the weighted average Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its cost basis.
residual value over its anticipated useful economic life.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash at Freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to banks, certificate of deposits and other receivables together with short-term at 2.5% of cost: Leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
depreciated by equal annual instalments over the unexpired Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations period of the lease: and Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale varying from 9%-50%.
when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
76 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued The Group as a lessor Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is differences can be utilised.
allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets The Group as a lessee tobe recovered.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when thereis payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets againstcurrent liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these onanet basis.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Foreign currencies remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Group Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the the lease.
rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Group Income Statement.
Sale and leaseback A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in foreign and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease currencies are translated into Pounds Sterling at exchange rates prevailing with the buyer.
at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: profits and losses are translated ataverage exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the differences arising are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification principles Income and are included in the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation described above whether or not the sale was made at the assets fairvalue differences are recognised as income or expensesin the period in which the and the relationship with the buyer which is based on levels of control and operation is disposed of.
influence the buyer may be an associate, joint venture or an unrelated party.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred and entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally at the closing rate.
the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group Balance Post-employment and similar obligations Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present the instrument.
value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised Trade receivables separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs are spread Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair systematically over the expected service lives of employees and financing value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and method, less provision for impairment.
losses are recognised immediately in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Investments Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense as either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the Share-based payments security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income using the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to the Group is included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
Interest calculated Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the Group Income adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income Statement when the entitys right to receive payment Taxation is established.
The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists of current and deferred tax.
Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are not classified as held for trading nor Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and advances are tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement except to the extent that Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised cost it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Income from or directly in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case it is these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield basis and is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly in the recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Group Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
Impairment of loans and advances to customers Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that those assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or orgroup of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been incurred, substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the orcredited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to items carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, inwhich estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or other comprehensive the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued In making collective assessments of impairment, financial assets are grouped Fair value hedging into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that aredesignated Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of current observable and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement data, to reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the period together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is of historical experience.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and Cash flow hedging thecarrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they is reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group in other comprehensive income.
of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other discounted in measuring impairment.
comprehensive income and recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking into Group Income Statement.
The classification of the effective portion when account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and recognised in the Group Income Statement is the same as the classification defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors in establishing of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the remeasurement of the these provisions are the expected loss rates.
derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within The portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal advances.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer spending, that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
recognised in equity is retained in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecasted transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Interest-bearing borrowings Group Income Statement.
If a forecasted hedged transaction is no longer Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestStatement of Changes in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between proceeds and redemption value being recognised in the Group Income Net investment hedging Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
Trade payables The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group interest method.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are included in the Group Income Statement when the foreign Equity instruments operation is disposed of.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure toforeign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from The net present value of the expected future payments are shown as a operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold financial liability.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is orissue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes: however, reassessed with any changes recognised in the Group Income Statement ifderivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for within finance income or costs.
Offsetting financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group Income Statement.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required Provisions to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at as interest expense.
each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Provisions for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
78 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 1 Accounting policies continued Standards issued but not yet effective The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards were in issue but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements.
these standards in the preparation of the financial statements: Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under IAS 39 and when IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements is effective from periods practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable to apply hedge commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It builds on existing principles accounting to the arrangements but continues to enter into these by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether arrangements as they provide certainty or active management of the an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The Group of the parent company.
It also provides additional guidance to assist in believes these arrangements remain effective and economically and the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
commercially viable hedges despite the inability to apply hedge IFRS 11 Joint arrangements is effective from periods commencing accounting.
Where hedge accounting is not applied to certain hedging onor after 1 January 2014.
It gives a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements, the reported results reflect the movement in fair value of arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the related derivatives due to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are now only two In addition, at each year end, any gain or loss accruing on open contracts typesofjoint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures.
is recognised in the Group Income Statement for the financial year, IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities is effective from periods regardless of the expected outcome of the hedging contract on termination.
commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the disclosure This may mean that the Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint whilst the resulting cash flows may not be as volatile.
The underlying profit arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance measure removes this volatility to help better identify the underlying sheet vehicles.
IAS 27 Amended Separate financial statements is effective from IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the provisions for pensions.
Under IAS 19, the cost of providing pension benefits in the on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10. applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
Corporate bond IAS 28 Amended Associates and joint ventures is effective from periods yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the Group commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the requirements for Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
IAS 19 also increases the joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the charge for young pension schemes, such as the Groups, by requiring the issue of IFRS 11.
This requirement will not affect the Group because equity use of rates which do not take into account the future expected returns on accounting is currently adopted under the existing requirements of IAS 31. the assets held in the pension scheme which will fund pension liabilities as IAS 32 Amended Financial instruments: Presentation is effective from they fall due.
The sum of these two effects can make the IAS 19 charge 1 January 2014 respectively.
The amendment clarifies some of the disproportionately higher and more volatile than the cash contributions requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the Group is required to make in order to fund all future liabilities.
Therefore, within underlying profit the Group has included the normal IAS 36 Amended Impairment of assets is effective from periods cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It addresses the disclosure of represent what the Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that providing post-employment benefits.
IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods.
amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
IAS 39 Amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Some operating leases have been structured in a way to increase annual is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014. lease costs as the businesses expand.
IAS 17 requires the total expected cost It provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of of a lease to be recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the a hedging instrument to a central counter party meets specified criteria.
lease, irrespective of the actual timing of the cost.
This adjustment also IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective from periods commencing on or impacts the Groups operating profit and rental income within the share after 1 January 2018 tentative decision by IASB.
It is a new standard for of post-tax profits ofjoint ventures and associates.
financial instruments that is ultimately intended to replace IAS 39.
The IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation replacement project consists of three phases: Phase 1 Classification and charges and costs arising from acquisitions.
Under IFRS 3 intangible assets measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities: Phase 2 are separately identified and fair valued.
The intangible assets are required Impairment methodology: and Phase 3 Hedge accounting.
to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and as such is a IFRIC 21 Levies is effective from periods commencing on or after non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying performance of the 1 January 2014.
It clarifies the timing of recognition of a liability to pay business acquired.
Similarly, the standard requires all acquisition costs to be a levy recognised in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent expensed in the Group Income Statement.
Due to their nature, these costs Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits: Employee contributions is underlying performance of the Group.
effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2014.
It provides IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards.
additional guidance on the accounting for contributions from employees The interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards or third parties set out in the formal terms of a defined benefit plan.
to be measured as a separate component of a sales transaction.
Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and Annual Improvements 2011-2013 The underlying profit measure removes this fair value allocation to present underlying business performance, and to reflect the are effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2014.
The Annual Improvements process covers minor amendments to IFRS that the performance of the operating segments as measured by management.
IASB consider non-urgent but necessary.
Restructuring and other one-off costs.
These relate to certain costs associated with the Groups restructuring activities and certain one-off The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption of costs including costs relating to fair valuing the assets of a disposal group.
these standards is still under review.
These have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Use of non-GAAP measures Profits losses from property-related items.
These relate to the Groups Net debt property activities including gains and losses on disposal of property assets, Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the development property built for resale and property joint ventures: costs discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, resulting from changes in the Groups store portfolio and distribution finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture network, including pre-opening and post closure costs: and income loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset by charges associated with impairment of non-trading property and related cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Underlying profit before tax The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
These measures are used for performance analysis.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted profit measures.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
Tax impact on non-GAAP measures is included within Note 9.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting The Groups reporting segments are determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Executive Committee as it is primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
The Groups Chinese previously reported as part of the Asia segment and US operations have been treated as discontinued as described in more detail in Notes 1 and 7.
The segment results do not include any amounts for these discontinued operations.
The CODM considers the principal activities of the Group to be: Retailing and associated activities in: the UK: Asia India, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand: and Europe Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, the Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, and Turkey.
Retail banking and insurance services through Tesco Bank in the UK.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings, as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying trading performance for the financial year under evaluation.
Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group.
Segment trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures the performance of each segment before profits losses arising on propertyrelated items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions, and goodwill impairment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
The IAS 19 pension charge is replaced with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
An adjustment is also made for the fair value of customer loyalty awards.
Inter-segment revenue between the operating segments is not material.
The segment results, which do not include any amounts for discontinued operations, the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the Group Income Statement, the segment assets and other segment information are as follows: Total at Total Tesco constant Foreign at actual Year ended 22 February 2014 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 48,177 10,807 10,595 1,003 70,582 312 70,894 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 43,570 10,181 9,117 1,003 63,871 278 64,149 Effect of IFRIC 13 513 32 45 590 2 592 Revenue 43,057 10,149 9,072 1,003 63,281 276 63,557 Trading profit 2,191 683 221 194 3,289 26 3,315 Trading margin 5.0% 6.7% 2.4% 19.3% 5.1% 5.2% Total Tesco at actual Year ended 22 February 2014 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations 48,177 10,947 10,767 1,003 70,894 Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 43,570 10,309 9,267 1,003 64,149 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 513 33 46 592 Effect of IFRIC 13 43,057 10,276 9,221 1,003 63,557 Revenue 2,191 692 238 194 3,315 Trading profit 5.0% 6.7% 2.6% 19.3% 5.2% Trading margin Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the previous financial year.
Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial year.
Trading margin is based on revenue excluding the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Total Tesco at actual Year ended 23 February 2013 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 48,219 10,663 10,809 1,021 70,712 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 43,582 10,045 9,319 1,021 63,967 Effect of IFRIC 13 491 25 45 561 Revenue 43,091 10,020 9,274 1,021 63,406 Trading profit 2,272 733 329 191 3,525 Trading margin 5.2% 7.3% 3.5% 18.7% 5.5% Reconciliation of trading profit to profit for the year from continuing operations 2013 2014 restated m m 3,315 3,525 Trading profit Adjustments: 11 4 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 28 25 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 14 19 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 10 28 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards Restructuring and other one-off items: 734 161 Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions included within cost of sales 98 709 Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions included within profits losses arising on property-related items 495 Impairment of goodwill 63 115 Provision for customer redress 102 14 Other restructuring and one-off items 180 419 Other profits losses arising on property-related items 2,631 2,382 Operating profit 60 72 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 132 120 Finance income 564 517 Finance costs 2,259 2,057 Profit before tax 347 529 Taxation 1,912 1,528 Profit for the year from continuing operations Segment assets Tesco Other UK Asia Europe Bank unallocated Total At 22 February 2014 m m m m m m 15,483 6,814 5,118 5,483 1,694 34,592 Total segment non-current assets Total segment non-current assets includes: 122 87 77 286 Investments in joint ventures and associates Total Tesco Other continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank unallocated operations operations Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m m m m m Total segment non-current assets 14,532 7,399 6,471 4,709 2,008 35,119 1,914 37,033 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 104 107 1 95 307 187 494 Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial year.
Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
China has been re-presented from Asia in this table into discontinued operations for comparison purposes.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 81 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Other segment information Total Tesco continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank operations operations Total Year ended 22 February 2014 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : 1,370 737 253 16 2,376 86 2,462 Property, plant and equipment Investment property 303 22 28 86 439 5 444 Goodwill and other intangible assets Depreciation: 642 320 307 17 1,286 26 1,312 Property, plant and equipment 10 9 19 19 Investment property 122 15 24 66 227 4 231 Amortisation of intangible assets Goodwill impairment losses 87 39 761 887 887 Impairment losses 135 8 11 154 154 Reversal of prior year impairment losses Total Tesco continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank operations operations Total Year ended 23 February 2013 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : 1,207 688 434 13 2,342 297 2,639 Property, plant and equipment 40 3 43 43 Investment property 207 20 39 97 363 9 372 Goodwill and other intangible assets Depreciation: 630 279 288 16 1,213 109 1,322 Property, plant and equipment 21 15 36 36 Investment property 130 13 22 61 226 6 232 Amortisation of intangible assets 495 495 495 Goodwill impairment losses 654 36 92 782 68 850 Impairment losses 1 2 3 3 6 Reversal of prior year impairment losses Discontinued operations in this table represents amounts up until the point a disposal group is classified as such.
The year ended 22 February 2014 represents China for the first six months of the financial year and the previous financial year represents the US and China for the full year.
Note 3 Income and expenses 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following: 512 518 Rental income, of which 34m 2013: 493m relates to investment properties 5 165 Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties 46,832 47,424 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 1,316 1,157 Stock losses 2,265 2,254 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charged 1,414 1,287 Operating lease expenses, of which 102m 2013: 125m relates to hire of plant and machinery 495 Impairment of goodwill Refer to Note 11 for detail of 1,623m reclassification of investment property to property, plant and equipment in the year.
During the financial year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor,  LLP, and network firms: 2014 2013 m m Audit services 0.8 0.8 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements 3.5 3.8 The audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 1.2 Audit-related assurance services 5.5 4.6 Total audit and audit related services Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: 0.1 Taxation compliance services 0.6 0.4 Taxation advisory services 4.1 2.4 All other non-audit services 10.2 7.5 Total auditor remuneration In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditor received fees of 0.2m 2013: 0.1m for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 33 and includes how objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by  LLP.
82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 4 Employment costs, including Directors remuneration 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m 6,144 5,847 Wages and salaries 471 448 Social security costs 542 482 Post-employment defined benefits Note 26 32 19 Post-employment defined contributions Note 26 82 89 Share-based payments expense Note 25 7,271 6,885 The average number of employees by operating segment during the financial year was: Average number Average number of of employees full-time equivalents 2014 2013 2014 2013 317,847 313,885 217,158 213,304 UK 96,296 94,869 88,616 87,433 Asia 92,694 94,712 82,741 84,469 Europe 3,607 3,390 3,353 3,169 Tesco Bank 510,444 506,856 391,868 388,375 Total Note 5 Finance income and costs 2013 2014 restated Continuing operations m m Finance income 132 120 Bank interest receivable and similar income on cash and cash equivalents 132 120 Total finance income Finance costs 68 72 Interest payable on short-term bank loans and overdrafts repayable within five years 10 10 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 223 219 GBP MTNs 130 157 EUR MTNs 91 88 USD Bonds 4 6 Other MTNs 79 123 Capitalised Interest Note 11 106 73 Net pension finance costs Note 26 11 15 IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 564 517 Total finance costs Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
GBP MTNs Interest payable on the 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 includes 9m 2013: 8m of Retail Price Index RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 includes 11m 2013: 9m of RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 includes 7m 2013: 7m of RPI related amortisation.
Note 6 Taxation Recognised in the Group Income Statement 2013 2014 restated Continuing operations m m Current tax expense 519 507 UK corporation tax 203 266 Foreign tax 50 99 Adjustments in respect of prior years 672 674 Deferred tax expense 93 38 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 85 5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 147 102 Change in tax rate 325 145 347 529 Total income tax expense Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
The Finance Act 2012 included legislation to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 26% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and to 23% from 1 April 2013.
In the December 2012 Budget Statement it was announced that the UK rate would be reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and in the March 2013 Budget Statement it was announced that the rate would be further reduced to 20% by 1 April 2015.
These further rate reductions were substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are therefore included in these consolidated financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 83 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 6 Taxation continued Reconciliation of effective tax charge 2013 2014 restated m m 2,259 2,057 Profit before tax 522 498 Tax charge at 23.1% 2013: 24.2% Effect of: 109 291 Non-deductible expenses 12 36 Differences in overseas taxation rates 135 104 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 18 Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 147 102 Change in tax rate 347 529 Total income tax charge for the year 15.4% 25.7% Effective tax rate Tax on items credited directly to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 2014 2013 m m Current tax credit charge on: 1 6 Share-based payments Deferred tax charge credit on: 1 1 Share-based payments 5 Total tax on items charged to Group Statement of Changes in Equity Tax relating to components of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 2013 2014 restated m m Current tax credit charge on: 43 Pensions 58 27 Foreign exchange movements 6 Fair value of movement on available-for-sale investments 4 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges Deferred tax credit charge on: 67 56 Pensions 35 3 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 164 75 Total tax on items credited to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior financial years: Other pre post PropertyRetirement Short-term tax related benefit Share-based timing Financial temporary Total items obligation payments differences Tax losses Instruments differences restated m m m m m m m m At 25 February 2012 1,689 465 11 64 24 22 10 1,137 Credit to the Group Income Statement 87 17 9 9 21 1 1 145 1 1 Charge to Group Statement of Changes in Equity Credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 56 3 53 Discontinued operations 5 8 3 6 Business combinations 1 1 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 20 1 4 2 1 12 At 23 February 2013 1,622 539 21 83 40 24 7 956 Credit charge to the Group Income Statement 282 29 19 9 19 2 3 325 1 1 Charge to Group Statement of Changes in Equity Credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 67 35 102 Discontinued operations 3 5 7 15 Business combinations Foreign exchange and other movements 32 1 13 4 14 At 22 February 2014 1,308 634 42 84 24 13 10 501 Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
P roperty-related items include a deferred tax liability on rolled over gains of 294m 2013: 340m and deferred tax assets on capital losses of 58m 2013: 71m.
The remaining balance relates to accelerated tax depreciation.
T he deferred tax charge for foreign exchange and other movements is 14m credit 2013: 12m debit relating to the retranslation of deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date and is included within the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading currency translation differences.
84 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 6 Taxation continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset and analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets 73 58 Deferred tax liabilities 594 1,006 20 8 Deferred tax assets liabilities relating to disposal group 501 956 No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 4.0bn 2013: 3.6bn relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 22 February 2014 is estimated to be 213m 2013: 159m which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
UK tax legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits : 2014 2013 m m 27 3 Deductible temporary differences 66 52 Tax losses 93 55 As at 22 February 2014, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of 398m 2013: 379m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 95m 2013: 162m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised inrespect of the remaining 303m 2013: 217m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 71m that will expire in 2018 2013: 92m in 2017 and 142m that will expire between 2019 and 2034 2013: 37m between 2018 and 2033.
Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale 2014 2013 m m 2,160 307 Assets of disposal groups 327 324 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 2,487 631 Total assets of the disposal groups and non-current assets classified as held for sale 1,193 282 Total liabilities of the disposal groups 1,294 349 Total net assets classified as held for sale The year ending 22 February 2014 represents China and the US, while the year ending 23 February 2013 represents the US.
The non-current assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties in the UK and Korea due to be sold within one year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued Discontinued operations During the period, the Group entered into definitive agreements, subject to the usual regulatory approvals, with China Resources Enterprise, Limited CRE to combine respective Chinese retail operations.
The definitive agreements allow for the exchange of the Groups Chinese retail and property interests plus cash of HK$4,325m for a 20% interest in the combined businesses.
In the second half of the financial year, independent valuations were completed, for accounting purposes, of both businesses separately to determine the fair value of the consideration for the disposal.
As a result of these valuations, the Group has concluded a charge of 540m is required to remeasure the assets and liabilities of the disposal group to the fair value less costs to sell.
The valuation was completed by considering a number of different commercial valuation methodologies rather than relying on any single method.
The different methodologies included discounted cash flows, enterprise value EV revenue multiples and income approach for Tesco and CRE businesses as appropriate.
Observable and unobservable inputs have been used in the models and therefore the fair value is classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.
The key unobservable inputs used included discount rates from 7.5% to 10.5%, long term growth rates from 3.0% to 4.0% and EV revenue multiples from 0.6x to 1.0x.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires these valuations to be produced on a standalone existing basis for each business and consequently they do not incorporate the significant long term synergies and strategic value that the Directors believe exist in the new enlarged business.
On 27 November 2013 the Group completed a sale of the substantive part of its US operations to YFE Holdings, Inc.
The remaining assets of the US operation are in the process of being disposed of as part of an orderly restructuring process.
In addition, the exit of the Japanese operations was successfully completed on 1 January 2013.
The above operations have been classified as disposal groups classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The tables below show the results of the discontinued operations which are included in the Group Income Statement, Group Balance Sheet and Group Cash Flow Statement respectively.
At 23 February 2013, the Groups Chinese operations had not yet been classified as held for sale: assets and liabilities of the disposal group at this date comprise only those of the US.
US China Total Income Statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m 496 697 1,489 1,420 1,985 2,117 Revenue 532 1,567 2,060 1,485 2,592 3,052 Cost of sales 104 50 89 80 193 130 Administrative expenses 125 286 49 125 335 Loss arising on property-related items 17 18 17 18 Share of post-tax losses on joint ventures and associates 1 4 3 10 2 14 Finance costs 266 1,210 674 222 940 1,432 Loss before tax of discontinued operations 6 5 8 16 2 21 Taxation 260 1,215 682 238 942 1,453 Loss after tax of discontinued operations 51 Loss after tax of discontinued operations in Japan 942 1,504 Total loss after tax of discontinued operations Loss per share impact from discontinued operations 11.68p 18.72p Basic 11.66p 18.71p Diluted Including total operating lease expense of 149m 2013: 60m.
The results of Japan are for the 44 weeks ended 1 January 2013, when there was an exit from the operations.
US China Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Non-GAAP measure: underlying loss before tax 266 1,210 674 222 940 1,432 Loss before tax on discontinued operations Adjustments for: 5 1 5 1 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 6 5 14 11 20 16 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods Restructuring and other one-off costs 118 812 25 118 837 Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions 80 540 540 80 Impairment of goodwill 28 113 28 37 56 150 Other restructuring and one-off costs 19 28 49 19 77 Other losses arising on property-related items 95 172 97 101 192 273 Underlying loss before tax of discontinued operations in the US & China 21 Underlying loss before tax of discontinued operations in Japan 294 Total underlying loss before tax of discontinued operations Comprises fair value remeasurements, less costs to sell.
86 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued Balance sheet US China 2014 2014 Total m m m Assets of the disposal groups Goodwill and other intangible assets 100 100 30 1,145 1,175 Property, plant and equipment 162 162 Investments in joint ventures and associates 138 138 Inventories 278 278 Trade and other receivables 48 259 307 Cash and cash equivalents 78 2,082 2,160 Total assets of the disposal groups Liabilities of the disposal groups 33 864 897 Trade and other payables 283 283 Borrowings 13 13 Other current liabilities 46 1,147 1,193 Total liabilities of the disposal groups 32 935 967 Total net assets of the disposal groups Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with operations in China and the US at 22 February 2014 were 1,495m and 65m respectively 2013: 684m in the US.
US 2013 m Assets of the disposal group 241 Property, plant and equipment 32 Inventories 15 Trade and other receivables 19 Cash and cash equivalents 307 Total assets of the disposal group Liabilities of the disposal group 192 Trade and other payables 7 Borrowings 83 Other current liabilities 282 Total liabilities of the disposal group 25 Total net liabilities of the disposal group Cash flow statement US China Japan Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m m 106 145 66 26 4 172 167 Net cash flows from operating activities 1 98 290 276 48 291 422 Net cash flows from investing activities 7 7 159 124 1 152 118 Net cash flows from financing activities 114 236 197 426 45 311 707 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 146 243 217 412 40 363 695 Intra-Group funding and intercompany transactions 32 7 20 14 5 52 12 Net cash flows from discontinued operations, net of intercompany Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 8 Dividends 2014 2013 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: 10.13 815 10.13 813 Prior financial year final dividend 4.63 374 4.63 371 Current financial year interim dividend 14.76 1,189 14.76 1,184 Dividends paid to equity owners in the financial year 10.13 819 10.13 815 Current financial year proposed final dividend The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 15 April 2014 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 22 February 2014, in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the reporting period.
It will be paid on 4 July 2014 to shareholders who are on the Register of members at close of business on 2 May 2014.
Note 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers to have been earned.
2014 2013 restated Potentially Potentially dilutive dilutive Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted Profit loss m 1,916 1,916 1,532 1,532 Continuing operations 942 942 1,504 1,504 Discontinued operations 8,068 10 8,078 8,033 4 8,037 Weighted average number of shares millions Earnings per share pence 23.75 0.03 23.72 19.07 0.01 19.06 Continuing operations 11.68 0.02 11.66 18.72 0.01 18.71 Discontinued operations 12.07 0.01 12.06 0.35 0.35 Total There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of approval of these financial statements which would significantly change the earnings per share calculations shown above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP underlying diluted earnings per share 2014 2013 restated m pence share m pence share 1,916 23.72 1,532 19.06 Profit from continuing operations Diluted Adjustments for: 11 0.14 15 0.19 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 117 1.45 69 0.86 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 22 0.27 17 0.21 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and 14 0.17 19 0.24 costs arising from acquisitions 10 0.12 28 0.35 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards Restructuring and other one-off costs: 734 9.09 161 2.00 Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions included within costs of sales 98 1.21 709 8.82 Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions included within profits losses arising on property-related items 495 6.16 Impairment of goodwill 63 0.78 115 1.43 Provision for customer redress 102 1.26 14 0.17 Other restructuring and one-off items 180 2.23 419 5.21 Other profits losses arising on property-related items 122 1.51 43 0.54 Tax effect of adjustments at the effective rate of tax 2014: 15.4%, 2013: 17.4% 2,589 32.05 2,712 33.74 Underlying earnings from continuing operations Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
The effective tax rate of 15.4% 2013: 17.4% excludes certain permanent differences on which tax relief is not available.
88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost 1,655 1,004 366 3,580 6,605 At 23 February 2013 6 40 12 111 169 Foreign currency translation 245 116 23 60 444 Additions 31 38 2 9 Reclassification 70 10 1 81 Disposals 51 649 700 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 1,793 1,057 378 2,880 6,108 At 22 February 2014 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses 916 440 261 626 2,243 At 23 February 2013 3 24 3 32 62 Foreign currency translation 111 101 19 231 Amortisation for the year 48 48 2 2 Reclassification 68 10 1 79 Disposals 22 22 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 908 533 278 594 2,313 At 22 February 2014 Net carrying value 885 524 100 2,286 3,795 At 22 February 2014 739 564 105 2,954 4,362 At 23 February 2013 Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 25 February 2012 1,454 726 347 3,548 6,075 Foreign currency translation 1 16 4 84 105 Additions 161 170 13 28 372 Reclassification 40 97 2 139 Disposals 1 5 6 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 80 80 At 23 February 2013 1,655 1,004 366 3,580 6,605 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 25 February 2012 777 340 241 99 1,457 Foreign currency translation 2 9 32 43 Amortisation for the year 121 91 20 232 Impairment losses for the year 16 495 511 At 23 February 2013 916 440 261 626 2,243 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitor that goodwill.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for generally five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Giventhe current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts of goodwill.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 7% to 11% 2013: 7% to 12%.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates range from 6% to 8% 2013: 5% to 10%.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each cash-generating unit.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates of 2% to 3% 2013: 1% to 5%.
In February 2014 and 2013 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
In July 2013, the European Commission announced proposed changes in regulation which would cap interchange fees on consumer debit and credit cards.
The regulation remains draft and it is unclear at this stage how and when the proposals will be finally implemented.
Transaction fees on credit cards represent a significant part of the Tesco Bank business so any limitation on interchange fees may have an impact of the carrying value of goodwill for that business.
Given the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the proposed changes, no change to existing interchange fees has been considered as part of goodwill impairment testing for Tesco Bank at this time.
The components of goodwill are as follows: 2014 2013 m m China 649 Malaysia 74 86 South Korea 475 514 Tesco Bank 802 802 Thailand 145 173 UK 761 701 Other 29 29 2,286 2,954 Goodwill related to China was reclassified to discontinued operations in the year.
An impairment charge of 495m was made in the previous year and arose from Poland 373m, Czech Republic 69m and Turkey 53m CGUs all included in the European operating segment.
This loss was recognised in the cost of sales line in the Group Income Statement.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 23 February 2013 24,817 10,826 35,643 Foreign currency translation 1,131 470 1,601 b Additions 1,492 955 2,447 Acquired through business combinations 9 6 15 Reclassification 1,875 27 1,902 Classified as held for sale 115 115 Disposals 239 133 372 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 974 360 1,334 At 22 February 2014 25,734 10,851 36,585 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 23 February 2013 3,961 6,812 10,773 Foreign currency translation 220 267 487 Charge for the year 466 846 1,312 Impairment losses 814 52 866 Reversal of impairment losses 152 2 154 Reclassification 282 1 283 Classified as held for sale 2 1 3 Disposals 139 117 256 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 29 216 245 At 22 February 2014 4,985 7,110 12,095 c d Net carrying value At 22 February 2014 20,749 3,741 24,490 At 23 February 2013 20,856 4,014 24,870 e Construction in progress included above At 22 February 2014 612 80 692 At 23 February 2013 584 96 680 a Other assets consist of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles.
b Includes 79m 2013: 123m in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs capitalised during the financial year was 5.1% 2013: 5.1%.
Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the financial year in which it is incurred.
c Net carrying value includes: i Capitalised interest of 1,208m 2013: 1,195m.
ii Assets held under finance leases which are analysed below: 2014 2013 Land and Land and a a buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Cost 151 558 157 559 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 50 529 45 514 Net carrying value 101 29 112 45 These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
d The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises: 2014 2013 m m Freehold 18,430 18,335 Long leasehold 50 years or more 662 623 Short leasehold less than 50 years 1,657 1,898 Net carrying value 20,749 20,856 e Construction in progress does not include land.
The Group continually assesses the level of services provided to tenants of its managed investment properties in accordance with IAS 40.
During the year, it was concluded that the level of services provided to tenants of some malls operated by the Group are no longer considered insignificant and as a result a number of malls with a net book value of 1,623m have been reclassified from investment property to property, plant and equipment.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 25 February 2012 24,761 10,011 34,772 Foreign currency translation 428 173 601 b Additions 1,525 1,109 2,634 Acquired through business combinations 4 1 5 Reclassification 104 28 132 Classified as held for sale 125 4 129 Disposals 734 116 850 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 938 320 1,258 At 23 February 2013 24,817 10,826 35,643 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 25 February 2012 2,951 6,111 9,062 Foreign currency translation 64 98 162 Charge for the year 448 874 1,322 Impairment losses 831 2 833 Reversal of impairment losses 5 1 6 Reclassification 6 1 5 Classified as held for sale 25 2 27 Disposals 182 98 280 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 115 173 288 At 23 February 2013 3,961 6,812 10,773 a b See page 91 for footnotes.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit.
Cash-generating units are tested for impairment if there are indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based mainly on value in use but with some based on fair value less costs of disposal where it gives a higher value.
Value in use is generally calculated from cash flow projections for five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of 2% to 5% 2013: 1% to 5%.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 6% to 14% 2013: 7% to 12% depending on the specific conditions in which each store operates.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates range from 6% to 12% 2013: 5% to 10%.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region.
Fair value less costs of disposal for stores was determined by reference to rental yields and residual valuation approach.
The impairment losses relate to stores, distribution centres and work-in-progress sites.
In the financial year, an impairment loss of 707m was recognised relating to properties in Europe following a reduction in profits which resulted in a revision of long-term forecast cash flows.
This was classified as Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions included within cost of sale within non-GAAP measures in the Group Income Statement.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose due to changes in fair value less costs of disposal or in forecasts resulting in increased value in use.
92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 12 Investment property 2014 2013 m m Cost At beginning of the year 2,317 2,253 Foreign currency translation 114 80 Additions 43 Reclassification 1,908 7 Classified as held for sale 21 Disposals 12 45 At end of the year 283 2,317 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At beginning of the year 316 262 Foreign currency translation 17 10 Charge for the year 19 36 Net impairment charge 21 1 Reclassification 282 18 Classified as held for sale 6 Disposals 1 5 At end of the year 56 316 Net carrying value at end of the year 227 2,001 The estimated fair value of the Groups investment property is 0.4bn 2013: 4.1bn.
This fair value has been determined by applying an appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property.
A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer.
Note 13 Group entities Principal subsidiaries The Group consolidates its subsidiary undertakings and its principal subsidiaries are: Share of issued Country of incorporation ordinary share capital and principal country Business activity and voting rights of operation Tesco Stores Limited Retail 100% England One Stop Stores Limited Retail 100% England Tesco Ireland Limited Retail 100% Republic of Ireland Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held Co. Limited Retail 100% Hungary Tesco Polska Sp.
Retail 100% Poland Tesco Stores CR a. s. Retail 100% Czech Republic Tesco Stores SR a. s. Retail 100% Slovakia Tesco Kipa Kitle Pazarlama Ticaret five Gida Sanayi A S Retail 95% Turkey Homeplus Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Homeplus Tesco Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited Retail 86% Thailand Tesco Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhn Retail 70% Malaysia Tesco Holdings China Co. Limited Retail 100% Peoples Republic of China Dobbies Garden Centres Limited Retail 100% Scotland Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc. Retail 100% United States of America Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited trading as Tesco Bank Financial Services 100% Scotland Tesco Distribution Limited Distribution 100% England Tesco Property Holdings Limited Property 100% England Tesco International Sourcing Limited Purchasing 100% Hong Kong dunnhumby Limited Data Analysis 100% England Tesco Corporate Treasury Services PLC Financial Services 100% England Tesco Food Sourcing Limited Sourcing 100% England Blinkbox Entertainment Limited Online Entertainment 100% England Tesco International Internet Retailing Limited Retail 100% England Tesco Hindustan Wholesaling Private Limited Retail 100% Republic of India Held by the Parent Company all other principal subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The Group has 86% of voting rights and 39% of issued ordinary share capital in Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited.
The accounting period ends of the subsidiary undertakings consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 22 February 2014.
A list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next Annual Return filed at Companies House.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 13 Group entities continued Interests in joint ventures and associates The Group uses the equity method of accounting for its interest in joint ventures and associates.
The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates: Joint ventures Associates Total m m m At 25 February 2012 308 115 423 Additions 11 87 98 Disposals 1 43 44 Foreign currency translation 10 6 16 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 35 19 54 Other movements in reserves 2 2 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 46 5 51 At 23 February 2013 317 177 494 Additions 3 2 5 Disposals 1 1 Foreign currency translation 2 16 18 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 43 8 51 Other movements in reserves 5 5 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 39 23 62 Transferred to assets of the disposal group 178 178 At 22 February 2014 143 143 286 Additions are net of 5m deferred gain 2013: 60m.
Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures includes 9 m loss attributable to joint venture operations of China for the first six months of the year ended 22 February 2014.
Significant joint ventures The Groups principal joint ventures are: Share of issued share Country of incorporation capital, loan capital and and principal country Business activity debt securities of operation Shopping Centres Limited Property Investment 50% England BLT Properties Limited Property Investment 50% England The Tesco British Land Property Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Red Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Property Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England Tesco BL Properties Limited Property Investment 50% England Fushun Splendor Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Anshan Tesco Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Qinhuangdo Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Xiamen Hete Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Shenyang Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Industry Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Nanjing Zhongshan Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Arena Jersey Management Limited Property Investment 50% Jersey The Tesco Property No.
2 Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% Jersey Tesco Mobile Limited Telecommunications 50% England Held by the Parent Company all other significant joint ventures are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The accounting period end dates of the joint ventures consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2013 to 28 February 2014.
The accounting period end dates differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture partner as well as those of the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 13 Group entities continued The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the Groups joint ventures, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 3,158 3,391 Current assets 396 821 Current liabilities 377 2,233 Non-current liabilities 3,205 1,837 Net assets 28 142 Cumulative unrecognised losses 171 175 Interests in joint ventures 143 317 Revenue 599 551 Profit for the year 52 35 Associates The Groups principal associates are: Share of issued share Country of incorporation capital, loan capital and principal country Business activity and debt securities of operation Tesco Underwriting Limited Insurance 49.9% England Tesco Lotus Retail Growth Freehold and Leasehold Property Fund Property Investment 25% Thailand Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the Groups associates, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Assets 456 574 Liabilities 313 397 Interests in associates 143 177 Revenue 237 2,370 Profit for the year 8 19 The accounting period end dates of the associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2013 to 28 February 2014.
The accounting period end dates of the associates are different from those of the Group as they depend upon the requirements of the parent companies of those entities.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associated undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Note 14 Other investments 2014 2013 m m Loan receivable 69 Available-for-sale financial assets 946 818 1,015 818 Available-for-sale financial assets mainly comprise investments in bonds with varied maturities of which 167m 2013: 57m is current.
Note 15 Inventories 2014 2013 m m Goods held for resale 3,467 3,643 Development properties 109 101 3,576 3,744 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 95 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 16 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Prepayments and accrued income 388 417 Other receivables 1,528 1,636 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Note 28 274 472 2,190 2,525 Included within trade and other receivables are the following amounts receivable after more than one year: 2014 2013 m m Prepayments and accrued income 19 22 Other receivables 432 472 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 195 335 646 829 Trade and other receivables are generally non interest-bearing.
Credit terms vary by country and the nature of the debt, ranging from seven to sixty days.
As at 22 February 2014, trade and other receivables of 37m 2013: 33m were past due and impaired.
The amount of the provision was 46m 2013: 51m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Up to three months past due 4 6 Three to six months past due 2 3 Over six months past due 31 24 37 33 As at 22 February 2014, trade and other receivables of 155m 2013: 153m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Up to three months past due 124 107 Three to six months past due 15 15 Over six months past due 16 31 155 153 No receivables have been renegotiated in the current or prior financial years.
Note 17 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank has loans and advances to customers.
2014 2013 m m Non-current 3,210 2,465 Current 3,705 3,094 6,915 5,559 The maturity of these loans and advances is as follows: 2014 2013 At 22 February 2014 m m Repayable on demand or at short notice 3 3 Within three months 3,641 3,019 Greater than three months but less than one year 166 175 Greater than one year but less than five years 1,955 1,803 After five years 1,307 731 7,072 5,731 Provision for impairment of loans and advances 157 172 6,915 5,559 At 22 February 2014, 2.4bn of the credit card portfolio had its legal interest assigned to a special purpose entity for use as collateral in securitisation transactions 2013: 1.2bn.
Included within the unsecured lending balance is 0.8bn 2013: 1.3bn that has been prepositioned with the Bank of England for the purposes of contingent liquidity via the discount window facility and consequently is eligible for future participation in the Funding for Lending Scheme.
96 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 17 Loans and advances to customers continued Provision for impairment of loans and advances m At 25 February 2012 185 Increase in allowance, net of recoveries, charged to the Income Statement 73 Amounts written off 83 Unwind of discount 3 At 23 February 2013 172 Increase in allowance, net of recoveries, charged to the Income Statement 55 Amounts written off 66 Unwind of discount 4 At 22 February 2014 157 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 2,261 2,309 Short-term deposits 245 63 Certificates of deposit 140 2,506 2,512 Cash of 1,016m 2013: 522m held on money market funds is classed as short-term investments.
Note 19 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 5,831 6,036 Other taxation and social security 399 440 Other payables 2,800 2,750 Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates Note 28 22 33 Accruals and deferred income 1,543 1,835 10,595 11,094 Included in other payables are amounts of 154m 2013: 262m which are non-current.
The 1% RPI Tesco Bank Retail Bond is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the Bond.
T he 3.322% Limited Price Inflation LPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 22 February 2014, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date: 2014 2013 m m Expiring between one and two years 125 1,600 Expiring in more than two years 2,600 1,225 2,725 2,825 All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates.
98 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 21 Financial instruments Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks and those that are held as hedging instruments are formally designated as hedges as defined in IAS 39.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes and the Groups hedging policies are further described below.
Net finance cost of 22m 2013: 19m resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges The Group maintains interest rate and cross currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt issued by the Group.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument and hedged item is recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria forhedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item is amortised to the Group Income Statement.
A loss of 311m on hedging instruments was recognised during the year, offset by a gain of 282m on hedged items 2013: a gain of 52m on hedging instruments was offset by a loss of 65m on hedged items.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward contracts to hedge the foreign currency cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Where these contracts qualify for hedge accounting, fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity.
These hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur and will affect the Group Income Statement within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Group also uses index-linked swaps to hedge cash flows on index linked debt, interest rate swaps to hedge interest cash flows on debt and cross currency swaps to hedge cash flows on fixed rate debt denominated in foreign currencies.
Net investment hedges The Group uses currency denominated borrowings and currency swaps to hedge the exposure of a portion of its net investment in overseas operations against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
A net finance income of 7m 2013: a net finance cost of 6m was recorded resulting from net investment hedging ineffectiveness.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled to the Group Income Statement on disposal of overseas operations.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting The Groups policy does not permit use of derivatives for trading purposes.
However, some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically not designated as a hedge where gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group Income Statement.
These instruments include cross currency interest rate swaps, index linked swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been disclosed in the Group Balance Sheet as follows: 2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Current 80 99 58 121 Non-current 1,496 770 1,965 759 1,576 869 2,023 880 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 99 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 71 2,057 42 1,492 125 1,601 59 1,924 Cross currency swaps 583 2,055 25 551 890 2,749 34 249 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 2 99 110 400 5 60 126 480 Cross currency swaps 139 287 115 1,605 237 642 32 531 Index-linked swaps 90 920 80 833 Forward foreign currency contracts 10 739 62 2,123 43 1,138 19 697 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Cross currency swaps 10 308 10 325 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 13 2,079 595 Cross currency swaps 8 128 2 49 3 89 Index-linked swaps 614 3,619 515 3,589 627 3,604 539 3,589 Forward foreign currency contracts 36 1,035 181 14 397 58 1,121 Total 1,576 13,326 869 10,536 2,023 11,073 880 9,005 The carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,506 2,506 2,512 2,512 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 6,915 6,845 5,559 5,581 Short-term investments 1,016 1,016 522 522 Other investments 1,015 1,015 818 818 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 255 257 459 459 Other receivables 1 1 17 17 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 86 86 130 130 Cross currency swaps 740 740 1,129 1,129 Index-linked swaps 704 704 707 707 Forward foreign currency contracts 46 46 57 57 Total financial assets 13,284 13,216 11,910 11,932 Liabilities Short-term borrowings: Amortised cost 1,276 1,281 535 535 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 628 660 225 221 Long-term borrowings: Amortised cost 4,901 5,702 4,450 4,899 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 4,287 4,227 5,496 5,114 Finance leases Note 34 121 121 128 128 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,078 6,044 6,000 5,997 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 780 780 15 15 Derivative and other financial liabilities: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 152 152 185 185 Cross currency swaps 140 140 79 79 Index-linked swaps 515 515 539 539 Forward foreign currency contracts 62 62 77 77 Total financial liabilities 18,940 19,684 17,729 17,789 Total 5,656 6,468 5,819 5,857 100 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair values of financial instruments and derivatives have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded, where they are available.
Where market prices are not available, the fair value has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The above tables exclude other receivables payables, which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities by category The accounting classifications of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 22 February 2014 and 23 February 2013 are as follows: Loans and receivables other Fair value Availablefinancial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 22 February 2014 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 2,506 2,506 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 6,915 6,915 Short-term investments 1,016 1,016 Other investments 946 69 1,015 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 255 255 Other receivables 1 1 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,078 6,078 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 780 780 Short-term borrowings 1,904 1,904 Long-term borrowings 9,188 9,188 Finance leases Note 34 121 121 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 66 66 Cross currency swaps 600 600 Index-linked swaps 189 189 Forward foreign currency contracts 16 16 946 7,309 707 5,656 Loans and receivables other Fair value Availablefinancial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 140 2,372 2,512 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 5,559 5,559 Short-term investments 522 522 Other investments 818 818 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 459 459 Other receivables 17 17 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,000 6,000 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 15 15 Short-term borrowings 760 760 Long-term borrowings 9,946 9,946 Finance leases Note 34 128 128 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 55 55 Cross currency swaps 1,050 1,050 Index-linked swaps 168 168 Forward foreign currency contracts 20 20 958 7,920 1,143 5,819 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 101 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 21 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 22 February 2014, by level of fair value hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly thatis, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 22 February 2014 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 850 96 946 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 86 86 Cross currency swaps 740 740 Index-linked swaps 704 704 Forward foreign currency contracts 46 46 Total assets 850 1,576 96 2,522 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 152 152 Cross currency swaps 140 140 Index-linked swaps 515 515 Forward foreign currency contracts 62 62 Total liabilities 869 869 Total 850 707 96 1,653 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 808 150 958 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 130 130 Cross currency swaps 1,129 1,129 Index-linked swaps 707 707 Forward foreign currency contracts 57 57 Total assets 808 2,173 2,981 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 185 185 Cross currency swaps 79 79 Index-linked swaps 539 539 Forward foreign currency contracts 77 77 Total liabilities 880 880 Total 808 1,293 2,101 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ending 22 February 2014: 2014 2013 m m At beginning of the year 3 Gains losses recognised in finance costs in the Group Income Statement Gains losses recognised in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity Purchase of non-controlling interests 96 3 At end of the year 96 During the financial year, nil 2013: 431m of Level 2 assets were transferred to Level 1 and there were no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
In the second half of the year, the Group acquired a non-controlling interest in Lazada, an online retailer, for 96m.
102 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 21 Financial instruments continued Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following tables show those financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Gross amounts of Gross financial Related amounts not set off amounts of assets Net amounts in the Group Balance Sheet recognised liabilities set presented in financial off in the the Group At 22 February 2014 assets Group Balance Financial liabilities Balance Sheet Sheet instruments Collateral Net amount Financial assets offset m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 2,882 376 2,506 2,506 Derivative financial instruments 1,576 1,576 336 6 1,234 Trade and other receivables 2,737 547 2,190 2,190 Total 7,195 923 6,272 336 6 5,930 Financial liabilities offset Bank loans and overdrafts 1,206 376 830 830 Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 765 765 765 Derivative financial instruments 869 869 336 16 517 Trade payables 11,142 547 10,595 10,595 Total 13,982 923 13,059 1,101 16 11,942 Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements are included within the Deposits by Banks balance of 780m in the Group Balance Sheet.
Gross amounts of Gross financial Related amounts not set off amounts of assets Net amounts in the Group Balance Sheet recognised liabilities set presented in financial off in the the Group At 23 February 2013 assets Group Balance Financial liabilities Balance Sheet Sheet instruments Collateral Net amount Financial assets offset m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 3,243 731 2,512 2,512 Derivative financial instruments 2,023 2,023 308 2 1,713 Trade and other receivables 3,018 493 2,525 2,525 Total 8,284 1,224 7,060 308 2 6,750 Financial liabilities offset Bank loans and overdrafts 1,461 731 730 730 Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 5 5 5 Derivative financial instruments 880 880 308 572 Trade payables 11,587 493 11,094 11,094 Total 13,933 1,224 12,709 313 12,396 Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements are included within the Deposits by Banks balance of 15m in the Group Balance Sheet.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis, however each party to the master netting agreement or similar agreements will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 103 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 22 Financial risk factors The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for risk management, as described in the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 20 to 25.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Debt issued at variable rates as well as cash deposits and short-term investments exposes the Groupto cash flow interest rate risk.
Debt issued at fixed rates exposes the Group to fair value risk.
The Groups interest rate management policy is explained onpage 25.
The Group has Retail Price Index RPI debt where the principal is indexed to increases in the RPI.
RPI debt is treated as floating rate debt.
The Group also has Limited Price lnflation LPI debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of0%.
LPI debt is treated as fixed rate debt.
For interest rate risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 107.
During 2014 and 2013, net debt was managed using derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk as follows: 2014 2013 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 2,506 2,506 140 2,372 2,512 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 3,440 3,475 6,915 2,739 2,820 5,559 Short-term investments 1,016 1,016 522 522 Other investments 855 160 1,015 707 111 818 Joint venture and associate loan receivables Note 28 163 92 255 459 459 Other receivables 1 1 17 17 Finance leases Note 34 90 31 121 104 24 128 Bank and other borrowings 9,788 1,304 11,092 9,569 1,137 10,706 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 2,707 3,371 6,078 2,399 3,601 6,000 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 780 780 15 15 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 4,022 4,022 1,156 1,156 Cross currency swaps 2,418 2,418 2,436 2,436 Index-linked swaps 553 553 537 537 Total 11,063 4,700 6,363 7,758 796 6,962 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, customer deposits, financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
The Group policy on credit risk is described on page 25.
The net counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is 1.2bn 2013: 1.7bn.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 13.3bn 2013: 11.9bn being the Groups total financial assets.
For credit risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 107.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
In addition, the Group has committed facility agreements for 2.7bn 2013: 2.8bn, which mature between 2015 and 2018.
The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of 15.0bn, of which 7.0bn was in issue at 22 February 2014 2013: 6.2bn, plus a Euro Commercial Paper programme of 2.0bn, none of which was in issue at 22 February 2014 2013: 0.1bn, and a US Commercial Paper programme of $4.0bn, nil of which was in issue at 22 February 2014 2013: 0.1bn.
On 5 November 2013 the Group issued 1.0bn of long-term debt and on 27 January 2014 the Group repaid 31.5bn of long-term debt.
For liquidity risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 107.
104 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives.
The potential cash outflow of 18.2bn is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 14.8bn 2013: 17.4bn offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 14.4bn.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair value.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.
For index-linked liabilities, inflation is estimated at 3% for the life of the liability.
Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 22 February 2014 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 1,835 523 1,514 921 743 5,372 Interest payments on borrowings 459 404 377 306 270 3,152 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 4,725 1,100 141 29 122 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 772 8 Finance leases 12 13 12 12 12 185 Trade and other payables 10,441 82 19 2 2 49 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 76 29 68 22 44 538 Net settled derivative contracts payments 91 75 59 52 70 345 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 4,768 713 1,323 1,758 39 1,493 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 4,727 648 1,277 1,499 24 1,132 Total 18,218 2,111 2,008 1,041 1,160 8,204 Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 23 February 2013 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 711 1,081 553 1,550 575 5,805 Interest payments on borrowings 451 441 402 375 301 3,511 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,323 577 100 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 9 6 Finance leases 13 13 13 13 13 212 Trade and other payables 10,865 93 31 19 12 74 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 63 62 27 71 20 608 Net settled derivative contracts payments 106 78 71 50 47 362 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 3,610 1,588 157 1,057 1,369 1,008 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 3,564 1,485 57 916 1,000 531 Total 17,369 2,124 1,043 1,795 559 8,879 Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: Transactional exposure that arises from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is shown in Note 21.
Net investment exposure that arises from changes in the value of net investments denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling.
The Group hedges a part of its investments in its international subsidiaries via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies which are formally designated as net investment hedges.
Loans to non-UK subsidiaries that are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies.
These are not formally designated as hedges as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 105 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The impact on Group financial statements from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below: Sensitivity analysis The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets as required by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from all local entity non-functional currency financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 22February 2014.
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to all financial instruments held at the balance sheet date.
It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, deposits and derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked debt which has been swapped to fixed rates: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded directly in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments only affect the Group Income Statement: all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact on the Group Income Statement: and the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group Income Statement and equity that would result, at the balance sheet date, from changes in UK interest rates and currency exchange rates that are reasonably possible for major currencies where there have recently been significant movements: 2014 2013 Income Equity Income Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss m m m m 1% increase in GBP interest rates 2013: 1% 5 8 15% appreciation of the Czech Koruna 2013: 5% 49 1 21 5% appreciation of the Euro 2013: 5% 1 24 12 43 10% appreciation of the South Korean Won 2013: 5% 110 56 10% appreciation of the US Dollar 2013: 5% 4 161 13 52 5% appreciation of the Polish Zloty 2013: Nil 19 10% appreciation of the Hong Kong Dollar 2013: Nil 29 35% appreciation of the Turkish Lira 2013: Nil 79 A decrease in interest rates and a depreciation of foreign currencies would have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income from changing exchange rates results from the revaluation of financial liabilities used as net investment hedges.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of the hedged assets.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while maintaining a strong credit rating and headroom whilst optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel them, or issue new shares.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, disposals of property assets including sale and leaseback transactions, debt capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases to ensure continuity of funding.
The policy for debt is to ensure a smooth debt maturity profile with the objective of ensuring continuity of funding.
This policy continued during the financial year with bonds redeemed of 208m 2013: 1,285m and 844m of new bonds issued 2013: nil.
The Group borrows centrally and locally, using a variety of capital market instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the Groups business requirements of each local business.
Refer to Note 30 for the value of the Groups net debt 6.6bn: 2013: 6.6bn, and the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the value of the Groups equity 14.7bn: 2013: 16.7bn.
106 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Tesco Bank Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises where assets and liabilities in Tesco Banks banking activities have different repricing dates.
Tesco Bank policy seeks to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long-term are measured and controlled through position and sensitivity limits.
Short-term exposures are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity over 12months to a 1% parallel movement in interest rates.
Tesco Bank also use Economic Value Equity EVE for risk management purposes with focus on the value of Tesco Bank in todays interest rate environment and its sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk is managed using interest rate swaps as the main hedging instrument.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Tesco Bank is unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed within Tesco Banks banking activities and adheres to the liquidity requirements set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Tesco Banks Board has set a defined liquidity risk policy and contingency funding which is prudent and in excess of the minimum requirements as set out by the PRA and by Tesco Bank.
A diversified portfolio of high-quality liquid and marketable assets is maintained.
Cash flow commitments and marketable asset holdings are measured and managed on a daily basis.
Tesco Bank has sufficient liquidity to meet all foreseeable outflow requirements as they fall due and its liquidity risk is further mitigated by its well diversified retail deposit base and a pool of surplus cash resources that are invested in a range of marketable assets.
Credit risk Credit risk is the potential that a bank borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit risk principally arises from the Banks retail lending activities but also from the placement of surplus funds with other banks and money market funds, investments in transferable securities and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
In addition, credit risk arises from contractual arrangements with third parties where payments and commissions are due to the Bank for short periods of time.
Retail credit policy is managed through the credit risk policy framework with standards and limits defined at all stages of the customer lifecycle, including new account sanctioning, customer management and collections and recovery activity.
Customer lending decisions are managed principally through the deployment of bespoke credit scorecard models and credit policy rules, which exclude specific areas of lending, and an affordability assessment which determines a customers ability to repay an outstanding credit amount.
Wholesale credit risk is managed using a limit-based framework, with limits determined by counterparty credit worthiness, instrument type and remaining tenor.
A limits framework is also in place for the management of third party credit exposures.
Ineffective management and controls over the emerging asset quality of the Groups lending portfolios could expose the Group to unacceptable levels of bad debt.
The Groups asset quality is reflected through the level of its impairment by lending type.
Asset quality profiles are regularly monitored and reported to the appropriate senior management team and risk committees.
The table below presents an analysis of credit exposure by impairment status across the different exposure classes.
The table predominantly relates to banking assets: the retail instalment lending applies to credit agreements in the insurance business.
Retail Retail Retail Credit quality of loans and advances unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total As at 22 February 2014 m m m m Past due and defaulted Less than 90 days past due 45 45 90179 days past due 40 40 180 days plus past due 50 50 Past due but not defaulted 029 days past due 38 38 3059 days past due 9 9 60119 days past due 6 6 Neither past due nor defaulted Low risk 5,923 692 167 6,782 High risk 98 4 102 Total 6,209 696 167 7,072 Low risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of less than 10%.
High risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of 10% or more.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 107 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Retail Retail Retail Credit quality of loans and advances unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total As at 23 February 2013 m m m m Past due and defaulted Less than 90 days past due 30 30 90179 days past due 42 42 180 days plus past due 76 76 Past due but not defaulted 029 days past due 41 1 42 3059 days past due 11 11 60119 days past due 9 9 Neither past due nor defaulted Low risk 4,935 258 202 5,395 High risk 126 126 Total 5,270 258 203 5,731 Low risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of less than 10%.
The credit risk exposure from off balance sheet items, mainly undrawn credit card facilities and mortgage offers, was 9.7bn 2013: 8.0bn.
Insurance risk Tesco Bank is indirectly exposed to insurance risks through its ownership of 49.9% of Tesco Underwriting Limited TU, an authorised insurance company.
Since late 2010 the majority of new business policies for home and motor insurance products sold by Tesco Bank have been underwritten by TU.
The key insurance risks within TU relate to underwriting risk and specifically the potential fora major weather event to generate significant claims on home insurance or on motor insurance the cost of settling bodily injury claims.
Exposure tothis risk is actively managed within TU with close monitoring of performance metrics and the use of reinsurance to limit TUs exposure above predetermined limits.
Note 23 Customer deposits and deposits by banks 2014 2013 m m Customer deposits 6,078 6,000 Deposits by banks 780 15 6,858 6,015 Included above is 1,366m 2013: 677m non-current customer deposits and 8m 2013: 6m non-current deposits by banks.
Deposits by banks include liabilities of 765m 2013: 5m secured on investment securities balances which have been sold under sale and repurchase agreements.
108 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 24 Provisions Property Other provisions provisions Total m m m At 25 February 2012 121 78 199 Foreign currency translation 6 6 Amount released in the year 12 12 Amount provided in the year 254 116 370 Amount utilised in the year 11 92 103 At 23 February 2013 358 102 460 Foreign currency translation 12 12 Amount released in the year 35 35 Amount provided in the year 53 63 116 Amount utilised in the year 38 60 98 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 2 2 At 22 February 2014 328 105 433 The balances are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current 250 188 Non-current 183 272 433 460 Property provisions comprise obligations for future rents payable net of rents receivable on onerous leases including on vacant property and unprofitable stores, terminal dilapidations and other onerous contracts relating to property.
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to 2020.
The other provisions balances relate mainly to provisions for Tesco Bank customer redress in respect of potential complaints arising from the historic sales of Payment Protection Insurance PPI, in respect of customer redress relating to the historic sale of certain cardholder protection products CPP and in respect of certain classes of loans and credit cards sold by the Group which are regulated under the Consumer Credit Act CCA.
The Group has identified instances where the technical requirement for the provision of certain post-contractual documentation to customers with CCA-regulated products has not been fully met.
While there is no evidence that these issues have caused particular detriment to customers, it is the Groups intention to provide redress to impacted customers in order to reflect the operation of the CCA in respect of the customers liability.
These provisions may be used over several years although the timing of utilisation is uncertain.
The balance is classified as current at the year end.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 109 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 25 Share-based payments For continuing operations, the Group Income Statement charge for the year recognised in respect of share-based payments is 82m 2013: 89m, which is made up of share option schemes and share bonus payments.
Of this amount, 63m 2013: 65m will be settled in equity and 19m 2013:24m in cash.
Share option schemes The Company had ten share option schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are equity-settled schemes: i The Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 permits the grant to colleagues of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from colleagues of an amount between 5 and 250 per four-weekly period.
Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at a subscription price of not less than 80% of the average of the middlemarket quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
ii The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000 permits the grant to Irish colleagues of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from colleagues of an amount between 12 and 500 per four-weekly period.
Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at a subscription price of not less than 80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
iii The Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 17 October 1994.
The exercise of options granted under this scheme will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
There were no discounted options granted under this scheme.
iv The Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 was adopted on 7 June 1996.
v The International Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 20 May 1994.
This scheme permits the grant to selected non-UK executives of options to acquire ordinary shares on substantially the same basis as their UK counterparts.
vi The Executive Incentive Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected senior executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
Full details of this plan can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
vii The Performance Share Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004 and amended on 29 June 2007.
This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options granted before 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between four and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
Options granted after 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year period.
No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan 2011. viii The Performance Share Plan 2011 was adopted on 1 July 2011 and amended on 4 July 2011.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year period.
110 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 25 Share-based payments continued ix The Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of approved, unapproved and international options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant at a price not less than the middle-market quotation or average middle-market quotations of an ordinary share for the dealing day or three dealing days preceding the date of grant.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the annual percentage growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
x The Group New Business Incentive Plan 2007 was adopted on 29 June 2007.
Options will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of grant and will be exercisable for up to two years from the vesting dates for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over the seven-year plan.
The average share price during the financial year ended 22 February 2014 was 349.48p 2013: 328.39p.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 111 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 25 Share-based payments continued The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown.
No assumption has been made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise.
2014 2013  Executive Nil cost related Executive Nil cost share option share option option share option share option option schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes 4.6% 0.0% 5.0% 0.0% Expected dividend yield % 21 23% 27% 21 28% 27% Expected volatility % 1.2 1.8% 1.7% 0.7 1.0% 1.3% Risk-free interest rate % 3 or 5 6 3 or 5 6 Expected life of option years 47.64 364.85 43.45 317.72 Weighted average fair value of options granted pence 14 16% 0% 14 16% 0% Probability of forfeiture % 362.00 364.85 312.00 317.72 Share price pence 322.00 0.00 282.00 0.00 Weighted average exercise price pence Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Groups option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time.
In estimating the future volatility of the Companys share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option.
Share bonus schemes Eligible UK colleagues are able to participate in Shares In Success, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme.
Each year, shares may be awarded to colleagues as a percentage of earnings, up to a statutory maximum of 3,000 per annum.
Eligible Republic of Ireland colleagues are able to participate in a Share Bonus Scheme, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme.
Each year, colleagues receive an award of either cash or shares based on a percentage of their earnings.
Selected executives participate in the Group Bonus Plan, a performance-related bonus scheme.
The amount paid to colleagues is based on a percentage of salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
Bonuses are awarded to selected executives who have completed a required service period and depend on the achievement of corporate targets.
Selected senior executives participate in the Management Performance Share Plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of the award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year performance period.
No further awards will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan 2011.
Selected executives participate in the Performance Share Plan 2011.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year performance period.
Selected executives also participate in the US Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007, which was adopted on 29 June 2007.
The awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award, for nil consideration.
The Executive Directors participate in short-term and long-term bonus schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Full details of these schemes can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
The fair value of shares awarded under these schemes is their market value on the date of award.
Expected dividends are not incorporated into the fair value except for awards under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The number and weighted average fair value WAFV of share bonuses awarded during the financial year were: 2014 2013 Number of WAFV Number of WAFV shares pence shares pence Shares In Success 14,776,516 383.55 Irish Share Bonus Scheme 96,668 384.55 110,234 301.08 Executive Incentive Scheme 598,842 375.18 4,591,717 301.13 Performance Share Plan 30,506,080 361.13 27,025,617 317.34 US Long-Term Incentive Plan 178,914 314.91 Note 26 Post-employment benefits Pensions The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and funded defined contribution schemes.
The most significant of these are the funded defined benefit pension schemes for the Groups employees in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Thailand and South Korea.
Of these schemes, the UK represents 95% of the defined benefit obligation 2013: 95%.
Defined contribution plans The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of 32m 2013: 19m have been recognised in the Group Income Statement.
112 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans United Kingdom The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme the Scheme, which is a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the assets of which are held as a segregated fund and administered by the Trustee.
The Scheme is established under trust law and has a corporate trustee that is required to run the Scheme in accordance with the Schemes Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with the Pension Scheme Act 1993, Pensions Act 1995, Pensions Act 2004 and all the relevant legislation.
Responsibility for governance of the Scheme lies with the Trustee.
The Trustee is a company whose directors comprise of: i representatives of the Group: and ii the Scheme participants, in accordance with its articles of association and UK pension law.
All members are eligible to join the Career Average section of the Scheme Pension Builder, where benefits are based on a members salary and their length of service.
There is a Final Salary section of the Scheme which was closed to new entrants in 2001.
Towers Watson Limited, an independent actuary, carried out the latest triennial actuarial assessment of the scheme as at 31 March 2011, using the projected unit method.
At 31 March 2011, the actuarial deficit was 934m.
The market value of the schemes assets was 5,587m and these assets represented 86% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in earnings and pensions in payment.
The scheme has a duration of 22 years.
Scheme Liabilities as at 31 March 2011 The table below shows a breakdown of the liabilities held by the Scheme as at 31 March 2011, the date of the last triennial valuation.
% 55 Active 19 Deferred 26 Pensioner The table below shows a breakdown of the liabilities for active members held by the Scheme as at 31 March 2011 % Pension Builder 49 Final Salary 51 Overseas The most significant overseas schemes are the funded defined benefit schemes which operate in the Republic of Ireland, Thailand and South Korea.
An independent actuary, using the projected unit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the Republic of Ireland scheme as at 1 April 2010, Thailand as at 23 February 2013 and South Korea as at 22 February 2014.
The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 22 February 2014.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values as at 22 February 2014.
Towers Watson Limited have updated the most recent Republic of Ireland, Thailand and South Korea valuations.
The liabilities relating to retirement healthcare benefits have also been determined in accordance with IAS 19.
Principal assumptions The major assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by the actuaries were as follows: 2014 2013 % % 4.7 5.1 Discount rate 3.3 3.3 Price inflation 2.3 2.3 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.4 3.4 Rate of increase in salaries Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.1 3.1 Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 2.3 2.3 Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 Rate of increase in career average benefits 3.3 3.3 Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 2.3 2.3 Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
UK mortality assumptions The Group conducts analysis of mortality trends under the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme in the UK as part of the triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme.
At the latest triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2011 the following assumptions were adopted for funding purposes: Base tables: 90% of the SAPS normal male pensioners for male staff and 80% of the SAPS all male pensioners light for male senior managers.
105% of the SAPS normal female pensioners for female staff and 90% for female senior managers.
These assumptions were used for the calculation of the pension liability as at 22 February 2014 for the main UK scheme.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 113 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been projected to 2009 with long cohort improvements.
In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements from 2009 is in line with medium cohort projections with a minimum annual improvement of 1% per annum.
The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the reporting date and a member reaching age 65 at reporting date 25 years.
2014 2013 Years Years Male 22.9 22.8 Retiring at reporting date at age 65: Female 24.4 24.3 Male 25.2 25.2 Retiring at reporting date 25 years at age 65: Female 26.6 26.5 Risks The Group bears a numbers of risks in relation to the Scheme, which are described below: Investment risk The Schemes IAS 19 liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If the return on the Schemes assets underperform this rate, the IAS 19 deficit will increase.
The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the funding position and operate a diversified investment strategy.
Inflation risk The Schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation therefore higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
This will be partially offset by an increase in any Scheme assets that are linked to, or correlate with, inflation.
Changes to future benefits were introduced in June 2012 to reduce the Schemes exposure to inflation risk by changing the basis for calculating the rate of increase in pensions to CPI previously RPI.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the Schemes liabilities.
However, this may be partially offset by an increase in the capital value of the Schemes assets that have similar characteristics.
Life expectancy risk The Schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member and so increases in life expectancy will lead to higher liabilities.
To reduce this risk, changes to future benefits were introduced in June 2012 to increase the age at which members can take their full pension by two years.
Furthermore the Group has the ability to change this in the future if there are further unexpected changes in life expectancy.
An Audit & Risk Pensions Committee was established to further strengthen our Trustee Governance and provide greater oversight and stronger internal control over our risks.
Further mitigation of the risks is provided by external advisors and the Trustee who consider the funding position, fund performance, and impacts of any regulatory changes.
A different approach is used to calculate the triennial actuarial liabilities and the IAS 19 liabilities.
The key difference is that IAS 19 requires the discount rate to be set using corporate bonds whilst the actuarial liabilities discount rate is based on expected returns of Scheme assets.
Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions 2014 2013 m m 240 210 Change in UK defined benefit obligation from a 0.1% increase in discount rate 1,210 1,060 Increase in UK defined benefit obligation from a 1% increase in pensions in payment 320 280 Increase in UK defined benefit obligation from a 1% increase in salary growth 350 310 Increase in UK defined benefit obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed The method and assumptions used to determine sensitivity and their limitation is the effect of varying the assumption whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Plan Assets The table below shows a breakdown of the combined investments held by the Groups schemes 2014 2013 m m Equities UK 476 302 Europe 891 655 Rest of the World 3,029 3,048 4,396 4,005 Bonds Government 280 332 Corporates Investment grade 744 732 Corporates Non-investment grade 170 469 1,194 1,533 Property UK 519 513 Rest of the World 247 229 766 742 Alternative Assets Hedge Funds 586 545 Private Equity 472 362 Other 75 1,133 907 Cash 635 19 Total Market Value of Assets 8,124 7,206 114 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued At the year end, 77% 2013: 76% of investments were quoted on a recognised stock exchange or held in cash or assets readily convertible to cash and are therefore considered to be liquid.
The plan assets include 3m 2013: 2m of the Groups transferable financial instruments.
In addition, the plan assets include 158m 2013: 289m relating to property used by the Group.
In addition, Group property with net carrying value of 416m 2013: 416m has been held as security in favour of the Scheme.
Movement in pension deficit during the financial year Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension assets are as follows: 2014 2013 m m 7,206 6,169 Opening fair value of defined benefit pension assets 372 338 Interest income 253 219 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate 531 486 Contributions by employer 4 180 Additional contribution by employer 12 10 Actual member contributions 14 9 Foreign currency translation 240 205 Benefits paid 8,124 7,206 Closing fair value of defined benefit pension assets Restated As per Note 1, the amended IAS 19 requires retrospective restatement of net interest amount to be calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
There is no movement in the pension asset as asset outperformance is taken to return on plan assets greater than discount rate.
The contributions are agreed by the Company and Trustees at each triennial valuation.
As part of the 2011 triennial valuation, the Company agreed with the Trustee to increase security and, on top of the normal contributions, made an additional contribution of 180m to the Scheme on 30 March 2012.
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligation are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Opening defined benefit pension obligation 9,584 8,041 Current service cost 542 482 Interest cost 478 411 938 830 Losses on change of financial assumptions 6 Losses on change of demographic assumptions 22 1 Experience losses gains 25 16 Foreign currency translation 240 205 Benefits paid 12 10 Actual member contributions 11,317 9,584 Closing defined benefit pension obligation The amounts that have been charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 22February 2014 are set out below: 2014 2013 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit: 542 482 Current service cost 542 482 Total charge to operating profit Analysis of the amount charged credited to finance cost income: 372 338 Interest on defined benefit pension assets 478 411 Interest on defined benefit pension obligation 106 73 Net pension finance cost Note 5 648 555 Total charge to the Group Income Statement Analysis of the amount recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: 253 219 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate 22 1 Experience losses gains on defined benefit pension obligation 6 Demographic assumption losses on defined benefit pension obligation 938 830 Financial assumption losses on defined benefit pension obligation 11 7 Foreign currency translation 702 617 Total losses recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Restated As per Note 1, the amended IAS 19 requires retrospective restatement of net interest amount to be calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 115 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued Summary of movements in deficit during the financial year 2014 2013 m m Deficit in schemes at beginning of the year 2,378 1,872 Current service cost 542 482 Net pension finance cost 106 73 Contributions by employer 531 486 Additional contribution by employer 4 180 Foreign currency translation 11 7 Remeasurements 713 610 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year 3,193 2,378 Deferred tax asset Note 6 634 539 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year net of deferred tax 2,559 1,839 Restated As per Note 1, the amended IAS 19 requires retrospective restatement of net interest amounts, to be calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
There is no movement in the pension deficit as asset outperformance is taken to actuarial gains losses.
History of movements The historical movement in defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities and history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m 8,124 7,206 6,169 5,608 4,696 Total market value of assets 111 91 60 65 54 Present value of liabilities relating to unfunded pension schemes 11,206 9,493 7,981 6,899 6,482 Present value of liabilities relating to partially funded pension schemes 3,193 2,378 1,872 1,356 1,840 Pension deficit 253 94 168 278 733 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension assets 22 1 43 25 1 Experience losses gains on defined benefit pension obligation Post-employment benefits other than pensions The Group operates a scheme offering post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The liability as at 22 February 2014 of 12m 2013: 12m was determined in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
During the year, 1m 2013: 1m has been charged to the Group Income Statement and 1m 2013: 1m of benefits were paid.
Expected contributions The Company expects to make normal cash contributions of approximately 579m to defined benefit schemes in the financial year ending 28 February 2015.
Note 27 Called up share capital 2014 2013 Ordinary shares of 5p each Ordinary shares of 5p each Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid: 8,054,054,930 403 8,031,812,445 402 At beginning of the year 19,662,145 1 18,632,251 1 Share options exercised 22,104,016 1 3,610,234 Share bonus awards issued 8,095,821,091 405 8,054,054,930 403 At end of the year During the financial year, 20 million 2013: 19 million ordinary shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share options for an aggregate consideration of 61m 2013: 57m.
During the financial year, 22 million 2013: 4 million ordinary shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share bonus awards for an aggregate consideration of 1.1m 2013: 0.2m.
Between 23 February 2014 and 11 April 2014 options over 942,705 ordinary shares were exercised under the terms of the Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 and the Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000.
Between 23 February 2014 and 11 April 2014, options over 2,207,051 ordinary shares were exercised under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes 1994 and 1996 and the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
As at 22 February 2014, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 806.5 million 2013: 804.0 million ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
116 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 28 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: Trading transactions Sales to Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed related parties related parties by related parties to related parties 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m m m Joint ventures 366 303 533 516 19 13 6 21 Associates 7 2 18 952 17 12 Sales to related parties consists of services management fees and loan interest.
Purchases from related parties include 412m 2013: 387m of rentals payable to the Groups joint ventures including those joint ventures formed as part of the sale and leaseback programme and nil 2013: 952m of fuel purchased from Greenergy International Limited.
In addition, duty on the fuel purchases paid by the Group to Greenergy International Limited was nil 2013: 1,056m.
Non-trading transactions Sale and Loans to Loans from Injection of leaseback of assets related parties related parties equity funding 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m m m 493 218 459 16 16 3 24 Joint ventures 46 503 37 21 7 132 Associates Transactions between the Group and the Groups pension plans are disclosed in Note 26.
A number of the Groups subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 Regulations apply.
The accounts for those partnerships have been consolidated into these accounts pursuant to Regulation 7 of the Regulations.
During the year, the Group completed one sale and leaseback transaction involving property assets in Thailand.
On 24 January 2014, one trading mall was sold to the Tesco Lotus Growth Fund, an associated entity of the Group, for a consideration of 46m.
Transactions with key management personnel Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.
Key management personnel compensation and their transactions with Tesco Bank are disclosed below: 2014 2013 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 16 13 Pensions 3 3 Share-based payments 2 2 Loss of office costs 1 3 22 21 Of the total remuneration to key management personnel, 16m 2013: 7m relates to Executive Committee members who are not on the PLC Board.
Transactions of key management personnel with Tesco Bank during the financial year were as follows: Credit card and personal loan balances Saving deposit accounts Number of key Number of key management management personnel m personnel m 12 4 At 22 February 2014 12 5 At 23 February 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 29 Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2013 2014 restated m m Profit before tax 2,259 2,057 Net finance costs Note 5 432 397 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates Note 13 60 72 Operating profit of continuing operations 2,631 2,382 Operating loss of discontinued operations 925 1,451 Depreciation and amortisation 1,567 1,590 Profits losses arising on one-off property-related items from continuing operations 98 580 Profits losses arising on other property-related items from continuing operations 134 419 Profits losses arising on property-related items from discontinued operations 162 288 Loss arising on sale of non property-related items 1 Profit arising on sale of subsidiaries and other investments 1 35 Impairment of goodwill Note 10 540 575 Impairment of other investments 42 Net charge of impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets not included in property-related items 715 629 Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charges 11 4 Additional contribution into pension scheme 4 180 Share-based payments Note 25 47 53 Tesco Bank non-cash items included in profit before tax 76 54 115 54 Increase in inventories 8 40 Increase in development stock 33 104 Increase in trade and other receivables 509 112 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 73 309 Decrease increase in provisions 1,432 1,220 Tesco Bank increase in loans and advances to customers Note 17 31 359 Tesco Bank increase decrease in trade and other receivables 867 579 Tesco Bank increase in customer and bank deposits and trade and other payables 2 24 Tesco Bank increase in provisions 314 259 Increase in working capital 4,316 3,873 Cash generated from operations Restated for amendments to IAS 19 as explained in Note 1.
The increase in working capital includes the impact of translating foreign currency working capital movements at average exchange rates rather than year end exchange rates.
Included in decrease increase in provisions are movements in respect of provisions for onerous contracts relating to continuing operations of 46 m 2013: 129m which are included in property-related items as per the Group Income Statement, and relating to discontinued operations of 37 m 2013: 47m which are included in property-related items as per Note 7.
Note 30 Analysis of changes in net debt At Tesco Bank at Other Net debt At 23 February 23 February Business non-cash of disposal Elimination 22 February 2013 2013 Cash flow combinations movements group of Tesco Bank 2014 m m m m m m m m 1,457 1,055 378 9 105 288 485 2,021 Cash and cash equivalents 522 494 1,016 Short-term investments 434 42 96 10 136 34 220 Joint venture loans and other receivables 10,066 638 818 148 282 486 10,606 Bank and other borrowings 128 9 5 7 121 Finance lease payables 1,172 31 36 470 5 712 Net derivative financial instruments 12 149 161 Net debt of the disposal group 6,597 428 3 9 412 28 6,597 Net debt Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the discontinued operations.
Movements and balances related to Tesco Bank are included within this analysis and the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note to allow reconciliation between the Group Balance Sheet and the Group Cash Flow Statement.
These movements and balances relating to Tesco Bank are subsequently eliminated to arrive at closing net debt.
Note 31 Business combinations and other acquisitions During the current financial year, the Group completed business combination transactions with total cash consideration of 49m 2013: 30m, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
118 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 32 Commitments and contingencies Capital commitments At 22 February 2014, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for of 270m 2013: 1,278m, principally relating to store development.
Contingent liabilities Tesco PLC has irrevocably guaranteed the liabilities of the following Irish subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 22 February 2014, which undertakings have been exempted pursuant to Section 17 1 of the Companies Amendment Act 1986 of Ireland from the provisions of Section 7 other than subsection 1 b of that Act: Monread Developments Limited: Edson Properties Limited: Edson Investments Limited: Cirrus Finance 2009 Limited: Commercial Investments Limited: Chirac Limited: Clondalkin Properties Limited: Golden Island Management Services Limited: Tesco Ireland Pension Trustees Limited: Orpingford: Tesco Trustee Company of Ireland Limited: WSC Properties Limited, Thundridge: Pharaway Properties Limited: R. J. D. Holdings: Nabola Development Limited: PEJ Property Investments Limited: Cirrus Finance Limited: Tesco Ireland Limited: Wanze Properties Dundalk Limited: Valiant Insurance Company: Tesco Ireland Holdings Limited.
For details of assets held under finance leases, which are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities, see Note 11.
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which if realised are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
The Group recognises provisions for liabilities when it is more likely than not that a settlement will be required and the value of such a payment can be reliably estimated.
Tesco Bank At 22 February 2014, Tesco Bank had commitments of formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, totalling 9.7bn 2013: 8.0bn.
The amount is intended to provide an indication of the potential volume of business and not of the underlying credit or other risks.
During the year to 22 February 2014 a change was made to a methodology by which the Group measures undrawn credit card commitments to exclude both the credit limits on cancelled cards and any overpayments made by customers.
The impact of this change in the prior year is a reduction in undrawn credit card commitments of 0.5bn.
Note 33 Tesco Bank capital resources The following tables analyse the regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance PLC TPF, being the regulated entity at the balance sheet date: 2014 2013 m m Tier 1 capital: 913 705 Shareholders funds and non-controlling interests, net of tier 1 regulatory adjustments Tier 2 capital: 235 372 Qualifying subordinated debt 33 25 Other interests 21 64 Total tier 2 regulatory adjustments 1,160 1,038 Total regulatory capital Following the publication of the Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV rules in the year, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA issued a policy statement on 19 December 2013 detailing how the rules will be enacted within the UK with corresponding timeframes for implementation.
The CRD IV rules will be phased in over the course of the next five years.
The movement of tier 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m At beginning of the year 705 744 Share capital and share premium 140 45 Profit attributable to shareholders 115 93 Other reserves 1 1 Ordinary dividends 100 105 Movement in material holdings 11 11 Increase in intangible assets 30 60 At end of the year, excluding CRD IV adjustments 842 705 CRD IV adjustments 32 Deferred tax liabilities related to intangible assets Movement in material holdings 39 At end of the year, including CRD IV adjustments 913 705 During the year the Group has amended its Tesco Bank capital resources to reflect the industry standard approach of including annual profits in full within capital resources for the year to which they relate.
The 2013 capital resources have been represented on a consistent basis with the current year presentation.
Previously, annual profits were only included within capital resources at the point at which they were deemed verified by the Groups auditors.
It is TPFs policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, TPF has regard to the supervisory requirements of the PRA.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 119 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 34 Leasing commitments Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings.
There are also a small number of buildings which are held under finance leases.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value of net Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m 12 13 6 6 Within one year 49 52 14 15 Greater than one year but less than five years 185 212 101 107 After five years 246 277 121 128 Total minimum lease payments 125 149 Less future finance charges 121 128 Present value of minimum lease payments Analysed as: 6 6 Current finance lease payables 115 122 Non-current finance lease payables 121 128 Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 1,334 1,404 Greater than one year but less than five years 4,676 4,999 After five years 9,911 10,867 Total minimum lease payments 15,921 17,270 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases after five years are analysed further as follows: 2014 2013 m m Greater than five years but less than ten years 4,250 4,756 Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 2,894 3,128 After fifteen years 2,767 2,983 Total minimum lease payments after five years 9,911 10,867 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with the discontinued operations in China are excluded from the 2014 figures in the above tables 2013: 1,633m.
See Note 7 for further details on discontinued operations.
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor vehicles.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Purchase options and renewal rights, where they occur, are at market value.
Escalation clauses are in line with market practices and include inflation linked, fixed rates, resets to market rents and hybrids of these.
The Group has lease break options on certain sale and leaseback transactions, which are exercisable if an existing option to buy back leased assets at market value at a specified date is also exercised.
No commitment has been included in respect of the buy-back option as the option is at the Groups discretion.
The Group is not obliged to pay lease rentals after that date, therefore minimum lease payments exclude those falling after the buy-back date.
The current market value of these properties is 5.4bn 2013: 5.2bn and the total lease rentals, if they were to be incurred following the option exercise date, would be 4.2bn 2013: 4.1bn using current rent values.
Operating lease commitments with joint ventures and associates Since 1988 the Group has entered into several joint ventures and associates and sold and leased back properties to and from these joint ventures and associates.
The Group entered into a property sale and leaseback transaction with an associate in this financial year.
The terms of these sale and leasebacks vary, however, common factors include: the sale of the properties to the joint venture or associate at market value: options within the lease for the Group to repurchase the properties at market value: market rent reviews: and 20 to 30 full-year lease terms.
The Group reviews the substance as well as the form of the arrangements when determining the classification of leases as operating or finance.
All of the leases under these arrangements are operating leases.
Operating lease receivables Group as lessor The Group both rents out its properties and also sublets various leased buildings under operating leases.
At the balance sheet date, the following future minimum lease payments are contractually receivable from tenants: 2014 2013 m m 193 258 Within one year 256 348 Greater than one year but less than five years 196 260 After five years 645 866 Total minimum lease receivables Future minimum lease payments that are contractually receivable from tenants associated with the discontinued operations in China are excluded from the 2014 figures in the above tables 2013: 153m.
120 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Note 35 Events after the reporting period On 21 March 2014, the Group entered into an agreement with Trent Limited, part of the Tata Group, to form a 50:50 Joint Venture in Trent Hypermarket Limited THL which operates the Star Bazaar retail business in India.
The Groups investment is 85 million.
On 2 April 2014 the Group, through its subsidiary Dunnhumby Limited, acquired Sociomantic Labs Sociomantic, a Berlin-based global leader in digital advertising solutions, for 124m.
Sociomantic operates in 14 countries worldwide, with clients in retail, financial services and travel services.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 121 Tesco PLC Parent Company balance sheet 22 February 23 February 2014 2013 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments 5 13,691 14,540 Derivative financial instruments 10 1,430 1,913 15,121 16,453 Current assets 10 64 198 Derivative financial instruments 6 12,536 12,017 Debtors 7 1,016 522 Short-term investments 106 5 Cash and cash equivalents 13,722 12,742 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 9 1,705 292 Borrowings 10 130 91 Derivative financial instruments 8 8,953 8,218 Other creditors 10,788 8,601 2,934 4,141 Net current assets 18,055 20,594 Total assets less current liabilities Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 9 7,953 9,436 Borrowings 10 703 694 Derivative financial instruments 8,656 10,130 9,399 10,464 Net assets Capital and reserves 13 405 403 Called up share capital 14 5,080 5,020 Share premium 14 3,914 5,041 Profit and loss reserve 9,399 10,464 Total equity The notes on pages 123 to 130 form part of these financial statements.
Philip Clarke Directors The Parent Company financial statements on pages 122 to 130 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 2 May 2014 and are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 27 June 2014.
Tesco PLC Registered number 00445790 122 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
