Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial calendar Financial year end 2013 14 22 February 2014 Final ex-dividend date 30 April 2014 Final dividend record date 2 May 2014 Q1 Interim Management Statement 4 June 2014 Annual General Meeting 27 June 2014 Final dividend payment date 4 July 2014 Half-year end 2014 15 23 August 2014 Interim Results 1 October 2014 Q3 Interim Management Statement 3 December 2014 Financial year end 2014 15 28 February 2015 Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
The 2014 15 financial year will comprise of 53 weeks.
Glossary Adjusted net debt Reduction in CO e emissions from existing stores and distribution centres 2 Net debt plus the deficit in the pension schemes plus the present value of The year-on-year reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per square foot from future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases our stores and distribution centres across the Group against a 2006 07 baseline.
Return on capital employed Capex % of sales Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed.
Capital expenditure as defined below, divided by Group sales including VAT and excluding IFRIC 13.
Return: Profit excluding the impact of one-off property and customer redress charges before interest after tax applied at the effective rate of tax.
Capital expenditure The additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and Capital employed: Net assets excluding the impact of current year one-off intangible assets excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
property and customer redress charges plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale and discontinued operations.
Colleagues being trained for their next role The proportion of colleagues who are receiving training for their next role.
Return on capital employed proforma In the year, a proforma return on capital employed has been presented as Colleague retention defined below: The proportion of colleagues with over one years service who have worked for Tesco in the UK throughout the year.
Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed.
Constant tax rate Return: Profit excluding the impact of one-off property and customer Using the prior years effective tax rate.
redress charges before interest after tax applied at the effective rate of tax including Chinese operations excluding fair value re-measurement Donation of pre-tax profits to charities and good causes adjustments, excluding US operations.
Our contribution to charities and good causes through direct donations, cause-related marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs.
Capital employed: Net assets excluding the impact of current year one-off property and customer redress charges plus net debt plus dividend creditor EBITDAR less net assets held for resale, including Chinese operations excluding fair Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, rent and movements value re-measurement adjustments, excluding US operations.
in impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets.
Total shareholder return The notional annualised return from a share, measured as the percentage Fixed charge cover change in the share price, plus the dividends paid with the gross dividends The ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR divided by financing reinvested in Tesco shares.
This is measured over both a one and five-year costs net interest including capitalised interest and excluding IAS 32 and 39 period.
For example, five-year total shareholder return for 2013 14 is the impacts and pension finance costs plus operating lease expenses.
annualised growth in the share price from 2008 09 and dividends paid and reinvested in Tesco shares, as a percentage of the 2008 09 share price.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Trading profit Trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures the Net debt performance of each segment before profits losses arising on property-related Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, discontinued operations.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions, and finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture goodwill impairment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
The IAS 19 loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset by pension charge is replaced with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
An adjustment is also made for the fair value of customer loyalty awards.
Net indebtedness Underlying diluted earnings per share The ratio of adjusted net debt divided by EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank Underlying profit less tax at the effective tax rate and minority interest divided EBITDAR from continuing operations.
by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Partner viewpoint Underlying profit before tax The partner viewpoint survey is our annual survey of suppliers.
In this report Underlying profit before tax excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS we have stated the percentage of positive scores from respondents when we 17, 19, 32 and 39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free asked whether Tesco treats them with respect.
periods, pension costs, and the marking to market of financial instruments : the amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition and acquisition costs, and the non-cash impact of IFRIC 13.
It also excludes profits losses on property-related items and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 143
