116 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill anddeferred tax assets Refer to page 129 Accounting policies and pages 144 and 157 notes.
We challenged managements future cash flow forecasts by The Group holds significant goodwill and deferred tax assets on comparing the forecasts to the latest Board approved three-year losses on the balance sheet of 2,469m and 179m respectively.
We performed a critical review of the historical accuracy of Determining the carrying value of these assets is dependent on budgets and forecasts by, for example, comparing the budgets used complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the in the prior year value in use model against the actual performance future results of the business.
of the business in the current year.
These procedures enabled us to determine the quality and accuracy of the forecasting process.
In particular, we focused on the value in use of the UK cash generating unit which makes up 66% of the total goodwill balance The key assumptions in the UK forecasts are the successful and the UK holds a deferred tax asset for losses of 117m.
implementation of the cost-out and profit improvement Transformation programme and resulting growth rates.
The value of these assets is highly dependent upon the successful In assessing the appropriateness of managements assumptions implementation of the ongoing UK Transformation programme.
we considered factors such as independent forecast growth rates If the future forecast results are not achievable, the value of goodwill for the wider travel industry, progress compared to the plan for the and recognition of the deferred tax assets may not be appropriate.
Transformation programme and we benchmarked the external data used in the discount rate calculation against rates used by comparable companies.
We applied sensitivity analysis to managements calculations to ascertain the extent to which reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, require the impairment of goodwill or the deferred tax assets.
Aircraft leases and maintenance provisions Refer to pages 130 and 134 accounting policies and pages 158 notes.
Fixed assets for leased aircraft of 578m and provisions of 235m We examined the appropriateness of the maintenance provision for the maintenance of leased aircraft are held on the balance sheet.
calculations prepared by management by performing an assessment of new obligations, verifying key assumptions such as the quantum This was an area of focus for our audit due to the size of these and timing of maintenance expenditure to contracts, confirming balances, the inherent level of estimation included in the calculation flying hours to the plane log books maintained by the engineering of the maintenance provisions based upon forecast aircraft usage department and understanding any significant provision releases.
and maintenance costs and the judgement needed to determine whether leases are operating or finance in nature.
We examined the terms included in new or updated aircraft lease contracts to confirm that they have been appropriately accounted foras operating or finance leases.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 117 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Separately disclosed items Refer to page 133 accounting policies and page 140 notes.
The Group continues to have a high level of separately disclosed We challenged managements rationale for the presentation of 1 items which are presented within a separate column on the separately disclosed items, assessing this against the Groups face of the Income Statement.
These items are excluded from accounting policy and consistency of treatment with prior periods.
managements reporting of the underlying results ofthe business.
We also considered items that were recorded within underlying profit The nature and use of separately disclosed items is explained that we considered to be exceptional in nature and challenged in the Groups accounting policy and includes losses on the management as to whether they should be presented within disposal of subsidiaries, restructuring costs including redundancy separately disclosed items.
and consultancy costs and onerous contract provisions We assessed the appropriateness of managements presentation which are primarily a result of the aforementioned Group ofthese items within the financial statements as a whole.
We focused on this area because separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and it therefore requires judgement by the Directors to identify such items.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as separately disclosed is important to maintain comparability of the reporting year-on-year.
Going concern assessment Refer to page 91 for the going concern statement made by the Directors.
2 This was considered to be an area of audit focus due to the seasonal We evaluated managements going concern assessment by nature of the Groups cash flows, which, at certain times, can put challenging the key judgements within the Groups forecasts pressure on the Groups headroom under its funding arrangements.
including underlying trading, the impact of the Group Transformation cost-out programme and the seasonal nature oftheGroups cash flow.
We examined the Groups funding agreements that are in place and performed a downside sensitivity analysis over the Groups headroom assessment in respect of its liquidity and compliance withits bank covenants.
Consistent with our work performed on the carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets, we checked the forecasts to the three-year approved Board plan and assessed the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasts by comparing prior year budgets to actual results.
Our conclusion on the Directors Going Concern statement is set outbelow.
Recoverability of hotel prepayments 3 Refer to page 134 key sources of estimation uncertainty for further information.
Significant deposits and prepayments of 290m have been made We assessed managements ability to utilise these hotel to hoteliers.
This was an area of focus as management exercised prepayments based on actual and forecast bookings at the hotels.
judgement in assessing the recoverability of these balances based We also examined contracts to check that contractual agreements upon current bookings, historical trend data, forecast future were in place to roll forward prepayments to future seasons.
bookings and consideration of the credit-worthiness of the hoteliers.
We evaluated managements contingency plans regarding certain aged prepayments or those deemed to be higher risk, due to the geographic location or credit risk of the hotel, including security over hotel assets to assess whether an appropriate provision had been recorded against those prepayments.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 118 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Treasury operations and use of derivative instruments Refer to page 130 accounting policies and 152 notes for related disclosures.
The Group uses a number of complex hedging structures including We used our specialist treasury knowledge to assess the options to manage its exposure to adverse movements in fuel prices reasonableness of managements assumptions and the and foreign exchange rates.
appropriateness of the financial instrument valuations.
These assumptions include the methodology used to value the The accounting for options and related structures is complex and financial instruments and the market data that was used.
therefore we focused on this area to check that hedge accounting had been properly applied and the impact of hedging had been We evaluated the design of the systems and controls in place within properly presented.
the Group treasury function and tested manual adjustments to the system generated valuation of foreign exchange contracts.
For the options used to hedge movements in the fuel prices we examined the structures to check that there were no net written options and that hedge accounting could be applied.
Defined benefit pension valuation Refer to pages 131 and 134 accounting policies and page 163 notes for details of the Group defined benefit schemes.
The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net postWe used our specialist pension knowledge to evaluate the Directors retirement liabilities of 447m, which is significant in the context assessment of the assumptions they made in relation to the ofthe overall balance sheet of the Group.
valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension plans and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality rates to national The valuation of the pension liabilities requires significant levels and industry averages.
of judgement and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Unfavourable changes in a number of the key We also focused on the valuations of pension plan liabilities and the assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount rates pension assets as follows: and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation the liability, particularly for the Condor pension schemes which ofthe pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
There is also some judgement in the measurement We obtained third-party confirmations on ownership and valuation offair value of pension assets.
We checked that there was no impact of specific events, such as changes to schemes and redundancies, arising from the Transformation programme, which should have been incorporated into managements calculation.
We tested underlying inputs, such as employees in the scheme, to the liability valuation used by the scheme actuary.
We also evaluated and tested managements controls and processes over pension data such as leavers to the scheme.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 119 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them How we tailored the audit scope misstatements identified during our audit above 1.0m 2013: 1.0m We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Going concern 1 Group operates.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors The Group is currently organised into four geographic operating statement, set out on page 91, in relation to going concern.
We have divisions: Airlines Germany, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and nothing to report having performed our review.
Each operating division comprises numerous management As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded entities which sub-consolidate at a geographic operating division level that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the and ultimately at a Group level.
The Group financial statements are going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes ultimately a consolidation of 106 reporting units representing the that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in Groups operating businesses within these geographic-based divisions operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one and the centralised functions.
year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our The reporting units vary in size and we identified 32 reporting units, audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern from across the four geographic operating divisions, which required basis is appropriate.
an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual However, because not all future events or conditions can be size or risk characteristics.
These reporting units accounted for 77% predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups of the Groups underlying profit from operations and 73% of the andCompanys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Specified procedures were performed on certain balances in a further 12 reporting units comprising the Groups internal IT development 2 Consistency of other information company because of the material internally generated intangible Companies Act 2006 opinion assets, the Russia operation because of its size, two Group financing In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and companies because of the material bonds and derivatives held by the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial these companies and the cash and accounts receivable balances in statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
certain UK management entities due to their size.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Our audit work at these reporting units, which included visits by Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, the Group Engagement Team to the Sub-Consolidation Teams inour opinion: and attendance at their clearance meetings, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us the evidence Information in the Annual Report is: We have no we needed for our opinion on the Group and Company financial materially inconsistent with the information in exceptions to statements as a whole.
the audited financial statements: or report arising from apparently materially incorrect based on, or this responsibility.
Materiality materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
the Group and Company acquired in the course We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together of performing our audit: or with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of is otherwise misleading.
our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures The statement given by the Directors on page We have no and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and 3 93, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the exceptions to onthe financial statements as a whole.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, report arising from that they consider the Annual Report taken as a this responsibility.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality whole to be fair, balanced and understandable forthe financial statements as a whole as follows: and provides the information necessary for Overall Group 15m 2013: 15m.
members to assess the Groups and Companys materiality performance, business model and strategy is How we Based on 5% of the last five years average, materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the determined it underlying profit from operations, being profit Group and Company acquired in the course of from operations adjusted for the impact of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 48, We have no Rationale for We believe that the underlying profit from as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, exceptions to benchmark operations provides us with a consistent yeardescribing the work of the Audit Committee report arising from applied on-year basis for determining materiality and is does not appropriately address matters this responsibility.
the metric against which the performance of the communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Group is most commonly measured.
Weused a five-year average because the Groups results have been particularly volatile over the past few years.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 120 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Independent auditors report to the members of Thomas Cook Group plc continued Adequacy of accounting records and information and What an audit of financial statements involves explanations received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, assurance that the financial statements are free from material inour opinion: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and explanations we assessment of: require for our audit: or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from and adequately disclosed: branches not visited by us: or the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors: and remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, Directors remuneration and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence Companies Act 2006. through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information inour opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from audited financial statements and to identify any information that is this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the Corporate Governance Statement audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the orinconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Responsibilities for the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors andthe audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors London 25 November 2014 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 93, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only forthe Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility forany other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
