Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 127 Notes to the financial statements 1 General information Thomas Cook Group plc is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
The principal activities of the Group are discussed in the Directors report business review on pages 4 to 41.
1 These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2014.
2 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to groups reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except for revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the profit or loss, share-based payments and defined benefit pension obligations.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
3 Significant accounting policies 3a Changes in accounting policy and disclosure Adoption of new or amended standards and interpretations in the current year In the current year, the following new or amended standards have been adopted.
2 IFRS 7 amendment Financial instruments: disclosures is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, and amends the disclosures required where certain items have been offset.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This standard applies to IFRSs that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures and provides a single IFRS framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurement.
IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The most significant change was that both the expected returns on pension plan assets currently based on expected returns and the finance charge currently based on the unwinding of the discount rate on scheme liabilities was replaced with a single net interest expense or income, that was calculated by applying the discount rate used in determining the present value of scheme liabilities to the net defined benefit asset or liability.
As a result of applying this standard retrospectively, the Groups profit before tax for the previous financial year has been restated by 5m.
New or amended standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective or EU endorsed The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are expected to apply to the Group, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue, but are not yet effective, or EU endorsed.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard will eventually replace IAS 39.
3 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
This is not expected to have a material impact.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is to establish the principles that an entity shall apply to report about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
Application of the standard is mandatory for annual reporting periods starting from 1 January 2017 onwards.
IFRIC 21 Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay levy that is not income tax.
The interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy.
The Group is not currently subject to significant levies so the impact on the Group is not material.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 128 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
IAS 28 revised Investments in associates and joint ventures is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This standard includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
IAS 32 offsetting financial assets and liabilities is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and provides clarification on the application of offsetting rules.
The Group continues to assess the impact of adopting these new or amended standards and interpretations in future accounting periods.
Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fullyconsolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Interpretation guidance included within SIC Interpretation 12 Consolidation special purpose entities, indicates that certain special purpose entities SPEs, which are involved in aircraft leasing arrangements with the Group, should be interpreted as being controlled by the Group, and therefore subject to consolidation, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities.
As a consequence, the Group has consolidated six 2013: six SPEs that own five 2013: five aircraft operated by the Group on operating leases.
Business combination The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, contingent consideration arrangements entered into, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
These values are finalised within 12 months of the date of acquisition.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles is a separately disclosed item.
When the ownership of an acquired company is less than 100%, the non-controlling interest is measured at either the proportion of the recognised net assets attributable to the non-controlling interest or at the fair value of the acquired company at date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Associates Entities, other than subsidiaries, over which the Group exerts significant influence, but not control or joint control, are associates.
Entities which the Group jointly controls with one or more other party under a contractual arrangement are joint ventures.
The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
Foreign currency The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries and associates that have a functional currency other than sterling.
The balance sheets of such entities are translated at period-end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences are recorded through aseparate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the year end are translated at period-end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
When a foreign entity is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Non-current assets held for sale The Group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
To be classified as held for sale, the assets must be available for immediate sale in their present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, and their sale must be highly probable.
Sale is considered to be highly Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 129 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued probable when management is committed to a plan to sell the assets and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan has been initiated at a price that is reasonable in relation to their current fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be completed within one year from the date of classification.
1 Non-current assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Groups balance sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate apotential impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Groups income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets other Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are carried on the Groups balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income 2 statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets useful life, when finite, as follows: Brands 9 years to indefinite life Customer relationships 1 to 15 years Computer software and concessions 3 to 10 years Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to generate net cash inflows.
These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our brands and the level of marketing support.
The nature of the industry we operate in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually at the CGU level by comparing their carrying amount to their recoverable amount.
All other intangible assets are assessed at each reporting date for indications of impairment.
If such indications exist, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of straight-line depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Where costs are incurred as 3 part of the start-up or commissioning of an item of property, plant or equipment, and that item is available for use but incapable of operating in the manner intended by management without such a start-up or commissioning period, then such costs are included within the cost of theitem.
Costs that are not directly attributable to bringing an asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating inthe manner intended by management are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, upon which no depreciation is provided, is calculated on a straight-line basis and aims to write down their cost to their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Leasehold properties Shorter of remaining lease period and 40 years Aircraft 23 years or remaining lease period if shorter 2013: 18 years Aircraft spares 5 to 15 years or remaining lease period if shorter Other plant, property and equipment 3 to 15 years Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
The accounting estimate for the useful life of aircraft was revised from 18 years to 23 years in 2014.
This had an immaterial impact on the financial statements.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 130 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued Aircraft overhaul and maintenance costs Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour costs, is capitalised and amortised over the average expected life between major overhauls.
All other replacement spares and other costs relating to maintenance of fleet assets including maintenance provided under pay-as-you-go contracts are charged to the income statement on consumption or as incurred respectively.
Provision is made for the future costs of major overhauls of operating leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes by making appropriate charges to the income statement, calculated by reference to hours flown and or the expired lease period, as a consequence ofobligations placed upon the Group under the terms of certain operating leases.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value, on derivatives not designated as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented on the balance sheet on a gross basis.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas aderivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Hedge accounting For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income or cost line, where they offset the changes in fair value on the hedged item.
Where the hedged item is designated in a fair value hedge relationship of a financial liability held at amortised cost, the change in fair value in respect to the hedged risk is recorded as a fair value adjustment within finance income or cost.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time the changes in fair value on the hedging instrument will continue to be recognised immediately into the income statement, while the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for fair value changes.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value on derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of future cash flows is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net operating expenses.
Forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options are not designated as part of the hedging relationship and therefore, are recorded in the income statement within finance costs and costs of providing tourism respectively.
Changes in fair value deferred through the hedge reserve, are recognised in the income statement in the same period, or periods, in which the hedged highly probable forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Non-derivative financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Group transfers the financial asset or when the contractual rights expire.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The measurement of particular financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and term deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
Where the Group operates centrally pooled Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 131 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued accounts and has the intention and ability to pool account balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed.
Where the intention or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet and the overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
1 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value.
Gains or losses except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised directly in equity until the financial asset is derecognised.
At this point, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Any impairment losses, foreign exchange gains or losses or dividends receivable are recognised in the income statement.
Held for trading investments Short-term investments and derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship such as natural hedges of a balance sheet exposure are classified as held for trading and are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value.
Gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Other non-current asset investments The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured using an 2 appropriate valuation technique.
Where a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Interest bearing borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs.
They are subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings that are designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are adjusted for changes in their fair value in respect of the hedged risk.
The adjustment will be amortised to the income statement at the time when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes inits fair value attributable to the hedged risk.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will berequired to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
3 Provisions are recognised at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted to its present value.
This policy is applied to all class of provisions.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes.
The pension liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of these schemes represent the difference between the present value of the Groups obligations under the schemes calculated using the projected unit credit method and the fair value of those schemes assets.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the period in which they arise within the statement of comprehensive income and expense.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets are presented as a net finance cost in the income statement.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement in personnel expenses.
Pension costs charged against profits in respect of the Groups defined contribution schemes represent the amount of the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Share capital Ordinary Shares including share premium are classified as equity.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 132 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued Leases Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases.
All other leases are operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments within property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected useful lives.
The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income arising from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and included inoperating income due to its operating nature.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share options to certain employees as part of their total remuneration.
The fair values of the share options are calculated at the date of grant, using an appropriate option pricing model.
These fair values are charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the expected vesting period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts Premiums written relate to business incepted during the year, together with any differences between the booked premiums for prior years and those previously accrued, less cancellations.
Premiums are recognised as revenue earned premiums proportionally over the period of coverage.
The portion of premium received on in-force contracts that relates to unexpired risks at the balance sheet date is reported as a provision for unearned premium.
Premiums are shown after the deduction of commission and premium taxes where relevant.
Claims and loss adjustment expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to policyholders or third-parties damaged by policyholders.
They include best estimate direct and indirect claims settlement costs arising from events that have occurred up to the balance sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Company.
Where applicable, deductions are made for salvage and other recoveries.
The Company does not discount its liabilities for unpaid claims.
Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated using the input of assessments for individual cases reported to the Company and statistical analysis for the claims incurred but not reported IBNR.
It is assumed that the development pattern of the current claims will be informed byprevious experience.
The expected claims are calculated having regard to events that have occurred prior to the balance sheet date.
Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers, under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group, and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts, are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as receivables from reinsurers.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.
Receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from insurance policyholders.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue is measured as the aggregate amount of gross revenue receivable from inclusive tours, airline travel services, hotel services, travel agency commission and other travel services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
The Group records revenue on a net basis after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and compensation vouchers granted to customers.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services.
Revenue relating to travel services arranged by the Groups leisure and airline travel providers, including travel agency commission and other services, are taken to the income statement on the date of holiday and flight departure.
Revenue relating to other services provided by the Group is taken to the income statement as earned.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership is transferred to the customer, usually on delivery of the goods.
Monies received by the balance sheet date relating to holidays commencing and flights departing after the period end are included within current liabilities as revenue received in advance.
Expenses Direct expenses relating to inclusive tours arranged by the Groups leisure travel providers are taken to the income statement on holiday departure or over the period to which they relate as appropriate.
Indirect expenses are recognised in the income statement over the period towhich goods and services are received by the Group.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 133 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued Separately disclosed items The Group separately discloses in the income statement: non-recurring items, impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business 1 combination intangibles: and IAS 39 fair value re-measurement.
Separately disclosed items, namely items that are material either because of their size or their nature, and which are non-recurring, are presented within their relevant income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure.
The separate reporting helps provide afull understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items which are included within the separately disclosed category include: profits losses on disposal of assets or businesses and costs of acquisitions: costs of integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes: significant goodwill or other asset impairments: material write-down of assets reassessment of accruals, reflecting a more cautious evaluation in light of current trading and economic conditions excluding errors or prior year items : and other individually material items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Groups management consider that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
IAS 39 fair value re-measurement includes movements in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships.
Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward contracts mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
Interest income and charges arising on the Groups 2 defined benefit pension schemes and interest charges arising on the unwind of discount on exceptional provisions and deferred consideration are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
The Groups management consider that these items should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives, and fair value adjustments to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge.
Finance costs comprise interest costs on borrowings and finance leases, unwind of the discount on provisions, net interest cost on pension plan obligation, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives, movement in forward points on outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships and changes in fair value of derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship.
The movement in forward points on outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in cash flow hedging relationships is included as a separately disclosed item in the income statement under the description IAS 39 fair value re-measurement.
The changes in fair value on derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship and the fair value adjustment on hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are separately disclosed in Note 8 under the description IAS 39 fair value re-measurement.
Tax Current tax 3 Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable recoverable in respect of the taxable profit tax loss for a period.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on taxrates and laws that are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and its taxbase, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transactionthat is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting or taxable profit or loss: In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in theforeseeable future: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, tax losses or credits carried forward can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset isrealised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which case the associated tax is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 134 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Significant accounting policies continued 3b Significant accounting policies continued Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its Ordinary Shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to Ordinary Shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
EPS measures for continuing operations have been presented in accordance with IAS 33.
The Group also presents a basic anddiluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying profit before tax as defined in separately disclosed items section above.
Further details of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 11.
3c Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying its accounting policies, the Group has made estimates and assumptions concerning the future, which may differ from the related actual outcomes.
Those estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts ofassets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition A key judgement in recognising revenue is to distinguish where the Groups businesses act in the capacity of principal or agent so as to determine the accounting as either gross or net respectively, in line with IAS 18 Revenue Recognition.
The Group exercises judgement to assess principal or agency by considering if it is the prime obligor in all the revenue arrangements, has pricing discretion and is exposed to inventory and credit risk, in which case the Group will be principal to the arrangement.
Residual values of plant, property and equipment Judgements have been made in respect of the residual values and useful economic lives of aircraft included in property, plant and equipment see Note 13.
Those judgements determine the amount of depreciation charged in the income statement.
Impairment of goodwill Judgements have been made in respect of the amounts of future operating cash flows to be generated by certain of the Groups businesses inorder to assess whether there has been any impairment of the amounts included in the balance sheet for goodwill or intangible assets with an indefinite life in relation to those businesses.
Special purpose entities The nature of the relationship with certain special purpose entities involved in leasing aircraft to the Group shows that they should be interpreted as controlled by the Group, and therefore consolidated, even though the Group has no direct or indirect equity interest in those entities.
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments Estimates have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.
Aircraft maintenance provisions Provisions for the cost of maintaining leased aircraft and spares are based on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of future maintenance costs and planned rollover and renewal of the aircraft fleet.
Tax The Group operates in many tax regimes and the tax implications of its operations are complex.
It can take several years for tax liabilities to be agreed with the relevant authorities.
Tax assets and liabilities represent managements estimates of tax that will be payable or recoverable in the future and may be dependent on estimates of future profitability.
In addition, estimates have been made in respect of the probable future utilisation of tax losses, and deferred tax assets have been recognised as a result.
The recoverability of these assets is dependent on the agreement of the losses with the relevant authorities and the estimates of future profitability.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses previous experience and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates.
The estimates, and the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed in Note 32.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 135 4 Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographic-based operating divisions: UK and Ireland, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines Germany.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Certain residual businesses and corporate functions are not allocated to these divisions and are shown separately as Corporate.
1 These reportable segments are consistent with how information is presented to the Group Chief Executive chief operating decision maker forthe purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
The primary business of all of these operating divisions is the provision of leisure travel services and, accordingly, no separate secondary segmental information is provided.
Segmental information for these activities is presented below: Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total Year ended 30 September 2014 m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue Segment sales 2,585 3,958 1,153 1,299 8,995 Inter-segment sales 56 26 8 317 407 Total revenue 2,529 3,932 1,145 982 8,588 Revenue by product Tour operations 7,096 2 Airlines 2,912 Other 589 Inter-segment sales 2,009 Total revenue 8,588 Result Underlying profit loss from operations 89 102 101 50 19 323 Separately disclosed operating items 95 41 16 67 219 Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles 48 2 50 Segment result 54 59 101 34 86 54 Share of results of associates 2 Finance income 10 Finance costs 180 Loss before tax 114 Tax 1 3 Loss for the year 115 Other information Capital additions 54 20 15 82 13 184 Depreciation 43 7 17 78 1 146 Amortisation of intangible assets 11 11 1 4 27 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 6 3 9 Impairment of other intangible assets 1 1 2 Impairment of goodwill 41 41 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 136 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total m m m m m m Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 2,638 3,665 1,523 1,145 7,249 16,220 Inter-segment eliminations 10,640 5,580 Investments in associates 14 Tax and deferred tax assets 200 Total assets 5,794 Liabilities Segment liabilities 2,833 2,322 919 776 7,487 14,337 Inter-segment eliminations 10,258 4,079 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 85 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,345 Total liabilities 5,509 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, revenue received in advance and provisions.
Capital additions comprise additions to other intangible assets Note 12 and property, plant and equipment Note 13.
The entity is domiciled in the UK.
Revenue from external customers in the UK was 2,539m 2013: 2,879m which is derived from the UK segmental revenue shown above but excluding external revenue in Ireland and Spain-domiciled companies, which would otherwise be included in the UK segment.
Revenue from external customers in Germany was 3,747m 2013: 3,395m.
The total non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax there are no employment benefits assets or rights arising under insurance contracts, located in the UK was 1,720m 2013: 2,074m.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 137 4 Segmental information continued Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total Year ended 30 September 2013 restated m m m m m m Continuing operations 1 Revenue Segment sales 2,978 4,195 1,239 1,312 9,724 Inter-segment sales 46 29 7 327 409 Total revenue 2,932 4,166 1,232 985 9,315 Revenue by product Tour operations 7,759 Airlines 2,988 Other 620 Inter-segment sales 2,052 Total revenue 9,315 The basis for revenue by product for 2013 has been re-presented to align with how this information is now reported internally in 2014.
Result Underlying profit loss from operations 66 78 109 48 38 263 Separately disclosed operating items 126 29 1 6 59 219 2 Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles 27 4 31 Segment result 87 45 110 42 97 13 Share of results of associates 1 Finance income 6 Finance costs 183 Loss before tax 163 Tax 50 Loss for the year from continuing operations 213 Other information Capital additions 53 23 17 66 18 177 Depreciation 40 8 19 73 1 141 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 14 1 4 31 3 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 10 4 14 Impairment of goodwill 17 17 Impairment of other intangible assets 8 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 14 14 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 138 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Continental Northern Airlines UK Europe Europe Germany Corporate Total m m m m m m Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 2,842 3,610 1,687 1,139 8,414 17,692 Inter-segment eliminations 11,595 6,097 Investments in associates 14 Tax and deferred tax assets 174 Total assets 6,285 Liabilities Segment liabilities 2,731 2,208 987 693 8,739 15,358 Inter-segment eliminations 11,239 4,119 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 102 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,516 Total liabilities 5,737 5 Personnel expenses 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 792 899 Social security costs 98 120 Share-based payments equity settled see Note 31 4 8 Defined benefit pension costs see Note 32 3 12 Defined contribution pension costs see Note 32 42 37 939 1,076 The average number of employees of the Group during the year was: 2014 2013 Number Number UK 9,720 12,941 Continental Europe 6,568 7,253 Northern Europe 3,120 3,090 Airlines Germany 2,997 2,917 Corporate 267 247 22,672 26,448 Disclosures of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are on page 102 within the Remuneration report and form part of these audited financial statements.
Disclosures in respect of remuneration of key management personnel are included in Note 33.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 139 6 Operating expenses 2014 2013 m m Advertising expenses 144 148 Rents and expenses for building maintenance 110 134 1 Information technology and telecommunication costs 161 138 Travel expenses and ancillary personnel expenses 54 82 Legal and consultancy fees 81 99 Impairment of current and non-current assets, excluding goodwill 32 64 Insurance 12 11 Training expenses 10 9 Other taxes 2 2 Auditors remuneration 5 7 Other operating expenses 22 26 633 720 Auditors remuneration 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 2 Fees payable to Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiaries 3 2 Total audit fees 4 3 Other assurance services 1 Other non-audit services not covered above 1 3 Total non-audit services 1 4 Total fees 5 7 Included in the above amount for audit of subsidiaries, 0.1m 2013: 0.1m has been incurred in respect of the audits of the Group pension schemes.
Total non-audit services is inclusive of 0.7m payable in relation to the Group-wide Transformation.
Fees paid to the Companys auditors and their associates for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in subsidiaries accounts since the consolidated accounts of the subsidiaries parent, Thomas Cook Group plc, are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 48 and includes an explanation of how 3 auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 140 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Separately disclosed items Restated 2014 2013 m m Affecting profit from operations Reorganisation and restructuring costs 124 127 Costs associated with refinancing 18 Impairment of goodwill and asset valuation reviews 57 18 Onerous contracts and legal disputes 79 59 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 9 14 Provision for tax dispute resolution 2 14 Other including time value of options 2 269 250 Affecting net finance costs Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs 7 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation 15 14 Other separately disclosed finance charges 2 Unwind of discount on provisions and other non-current liabilities 10 9 IAS 39 fair value measurement forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2 1 27 31 Total separately disclosed items 296 281 Restructuring costs Restructuring costs of 124m include 30m in relation to implementation of the first wave of our Cost-out and profit improvement programme, and 60m in relation to Group-wide restructuring activity.
In addition, 11m has been incurred in relation to IT rationalisation projects and 12m following the disposal of non-core UK businesses.
Refinancing costs Refinancing costs in the prior year related to the Groups refinancing announced in May 2013.
Goodwill impairment and asset valuation reviews Pre-disposal impairments were made in respect of Essential Travel 11m and Gold Medal 28m and Elegant Resorts 2m.
Asset valuation reviews 16m relate to the UK and Continental Europe segment.
Onerous contracts and legal disputes In the year, the Group has assessed its position in respect of certain onerous contracts and made appropriate adjustments to assets on the balance sheet and made provision for future losses under these contracts.
These contracts included 24m in respect of a UK outsourcing contract.
This amount also comprises a settlement on disposal of 8m and 41m in relation to EU261 claims.
As a result of a recent court ruling, the airlines are liable to compensate customers for delays caused by normal technical problems.
The Group has made a provision of 41m for the potential impact of the case on claims relating to historic delays.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
Provision for tax dispute resolution A provision of 14m was made in FY13 following an adverse third-party sales tax judgement relating to the Tour Operator Margin Scheme.
In FY14, the courts clarified the law in this area and subsequently 2m was released.
Other This relates to the time value on fuel derivatives.
Finance-related charges See Note 8 for details of finance income and costs.
The Group has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately disclosed circumstances, primarily deferred acquisition consideration.
A notional interest charge of 10m on the discounted value of such provisions is recognised within separately disclosed finance-related charges.
The net interest cost arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is 15m.
A 2m charge has been recognised in respect ofIAS39 allocations of the time value of derivative products.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 141 8 Finance income and costs Restated 2014 2013 m m Underlying finance income 1 Income from loans included in financial assets 1 Other interest and similar income 9 6 Underlying finance income 10 6 Underlying finance costs Bank and bond interest 89 90 Fee amortisation 9 7 Letters of credit 17 16 Other interest payable 17 14 132 127 Underlying aircraft-related finance costs Interest payable 4 7 Finance costs in respect of finance leases 17 18 21 25 2 Underlying finance cost 153 152 Net Underlying finance costs 143 146 Separately disclosed finance costs Write off of unamortised bank facility set-up and related costs 7 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation Note 32 15 14 Discounting of provisions and other non-current liabilities 10 9 Other exceptional finance charges 2 Forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2 1 27 31 Total net interest 170 177 Other interest payable includes fair value gain of 14m 2013: 3m loss on hedging instruments and fair value loss of 12m 2013: nil on hedged items in fair value hedges.
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 142 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Tax 2014 2013 m m Analysis of tax charge Current tax UK corporation tax charge for the year adjustments in respect of prior periods 5 5 Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 23 42 adjustments in respect of prior periods 6 3 17 39 Total current tax 17 44 Deferred tax tax credit charge 16 6 Total deferred tax 16 6 Total tax charge 1 50 The tax on the Groups loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK standard corporation tax rate applicable to profits of the Company as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Tax reconciliation Loss before tax 114 163 Expected tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 22% 2013: 23.5% 25 38 Income not liable for tax 6 14 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 30 15 Impairment for which no tax relief is due 9 7 Losses and other timing differences for which tax relief is not available 31 133 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 4 11 Recognition of losses not previously recognised 56 75 Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised 18 9 Difference in rates of tax suffered on overseas earnings 7 2 Impact of changes in tax rates 5 7 Other 1 1 Income tax charge in respect of prior periods 9 18 Tax charge 1 50 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes and the fair value of derivative financial instruments of 9m has been credited directly to equity 2013: credit of 1m.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 22% 2013: 23.5% of the estimated assessable loss for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Surplus losses not recognised in deferred tax of 2,340m 2013: 1,941m are available predominantly in the UK, France and Spain for offset against future profits.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 143 10 Dividends No dividends were declared during the year ended 30 September 2014 2013: nil.
11 Earnings per share 1 The calculations for earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares, are shown in the table below.
The weighted average number of shares shown excludes 21 million shares held by the employee share ownership trusts 2013: 8 million.
Restated 2014 2013 Basic and diluted loss per share m m Net loss attributable to owners of the parent 118 205 millions millions Weighted average number of shares for basic and diluted loss per share 1,440 1,196 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares share options 24 22 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 1,464 1,218 pence pence Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations 8.2 17.1 2014 2013 Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share m m 2 Underlying net profit attributable to owners of the parent 163 60 pence pence Underlying basic earnings per share 11.3 5.0 Underlying diluted earnings per share 11.1 4.9 Awards of shares under the Thomas Cook Performance Share Plan, Buy As You Earn Scheme, Restricted Share Scheme and Co-Investment Plan will be satisfied by shares held in trust and therefore are potentially dilutive.
The remainder of the share schemes will be satisfied by the purchase of existing shares in the market and will therefore not result in any dilution of earnings per share.
Underlying net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived from the pre exceptional profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2014 of 182m 2013: 118m and deducting a notional tax charge of 16m 2013: 67m, and taking into account non-controlling interests.
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 144 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets Goodwill Computer software and concessions Brands and Internally customer Order Other Purchased generated relationships backlog Purchased Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2012 3,255 155 228 523 43 21 4,225 Additions 5 48 53 Disposals 267 30 27 45 369 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Note 27 16 2 18 Exchange differences 63 6 5 5 1 80 At 30 September 2013 3,035 136 254 481 44 21 3,971 Additions 5 34 1 40 Disposals 89 4 9 52 2 14 170 Exchange differences 158 10 13 19 1 2 203 At 30 September 2014 2,788 127 266 410 41 6 3,638 Accumulated amortisation and impairmentlosses At 1 October 2012 595 122 137 154 43 15 1,066 Impairment loss 17 5 2 1 25 Charge for the year 6 25 14 45 Disposals 267 28 21 12 328 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Note 27 16 2 18 Exchange differences 15 6 4 1 26 At 30 September 2013 344 111 147 155 44 15 816 Impairment loss 1 1 2 Charge for the year 5 22 9 36 Disposals 12 3 8 23 2 14 62 Exchange differences 13 9 3 1 1 27 At 30 September 2014 319 105 158 142 41 765 Carrying amount At 30 September 2014 2,469 22 108 268 6 2,873 At 30 September 2013 2,691 25 107 326 6 3,155 The carrying value of goodwill is analysed by business segment as follows: 2014 2013 m m UK 1,631 1,756 Continental Europe 159 169 Northern Europe 659 745 Airlines Germany 20 21 2,469 2,691 Goodwill impairment testing In accordance with accounting standards, the Group tests the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances change.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 145 12 Intangible assets continued Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of each cash-generating unit CGU to the recoverable amount, determined on the basis of the CGUs value in use.
The value in use is based on the net present value of future cash flow projections discounted at pre-tax rates appropriate for each CGU.
The Groups CGUs are determined by geographical market and consist: UK, Continental Europe, Northern Europe and Airlines Germany.
1 The future cash flow projections used to determine the value in use are based on the most recent annual budgets and three-year plans for each of the CGUs.
The key assumptions used to determine the business budget and three-year plans relate to capacity and the pricing of accommodation and fuel inputs.
Capacity is based on managements view of market demand and the constraints to managing capacity such as aircraft lease commitments.
The accommodation pricing is primarily driven by the underlying bed rate and the foreign exchange hedges in place.
The former is based on the businesses ongoing dialogue with bed suppliers and local cost inflation.
The fuel pricing assumption is primarily driven by the fuel hedges in place and the forward fuel curve at the time that the budget is set.
The key assumptions used to determine the Independent business budget and three-year plans relate to passenger volumes and commission rates, and are based on the individual businesses view of the market conditions.
Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the three-year plan are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate of 2%.
A pre-tax discount rate of between 11.9% 12.4% reflecting the specific risks of each CGU is used to calculate the value in use for each of the CGUs.
Sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed as management believe that any reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
13 Property, plant and equipment Other property, plant and equipment Aircraft and Freehold land Short Other 2 aircraft spares and buildings leaseholds Other Total m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2012 1,108 145 176 202 523 Additions 95 2 6 21 29 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Note 27 1 11 12 Disposals 22 1 39 32 72 Exchange differences 46 7 3 17 27 At 30 September 2013 1,227 153 145 197 495 Additions 117 1 7 19 27 Disposals 60 32 40 72 Exchange differences and reclassifications 156 13 11 13 15 At 30 September 2014 1,128 141 131 163 435 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2012 508 46 112 123 281 3 Charge for the year 109 7 10 15 32 Provision for impairment 14 14 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Note 27 4 4 Disposals 18 1 20 26 47 Exchange differences 25 3 2 16 21 At 30 September 2013 624 55 104 138 297 Charge for the year 123 4 8 11 23 Disposals 58 23 32 55 Exchange differences and reclassifications 139 6 1 7 At 30 September 2014 550 53 89 116 258 Carrying amount At 30 September 2014 578 88 42 47 177 At 30 September 2013 603 98 41 59 198 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 146 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold land with a cost of 24m 2013: 25m has not been depreciated.
The net book value of aircraft and aircraft spares includes 270m 2013: 284m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The net book value of other property, plant and equipment includes 10m 2013: 12m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation of the owned assets during the year was 85m 2013: 92m.
Depreciation for property, plant and equipment held underfinance leases was 61m 2013: 49m.
2014 2013 Capital commitments m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in the accounts 28 57 The Group is contractually committed to the acquisition of four new Airbus A321 aircraft as at 30 September 2014, which had a list price of $96m each at the time of commitment, before escalations and discounts.
All are intended to be financed by sale and leaseback at delivery date in 2016.
Leases for two of the aircraft were signed as at 30 September 2014, subject to the purchase taking place, and the operating lease commitment included in Note 29.
14 Non-current asset investments Associates 2014 2013 m m Cost At 1 October 2013 38 37 Disposals 1 Groups share of associates profit for the year 2 1 Dividend received from associate 2 Exchange differences 2 1 At 30 September 2014 36 38 Amounts written off or provided At 1 October 2013 24 23 Exchange differences 2 1 At 30 September 2014 22 24 Carrying amount At 30 September 2014 14 14 At 30 September 2013 14 14 Investments in associates at 30 September 2014 included a 40% interest in Activos Turisticos S. A, an incoming agency and hotel company based in Palma fide Mallorca, Spain, and a 25% interest in Hotelera Adeje S. L. a hotel company based in Santa Cruz, Tenerife.
Summarised financial information in respect of associated undertakings is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Total assets 80 102 Total liabilities 22 43 Net assets 58 59 Groups share of net assets 16 18 Revenue 43 52 Profit for the year 4 2 Groups share of associates profit for the year 2 1 The financial statements of the associated undertakings are made up at different times to that of the Group.
For the purposes of applying the equity method of accounting the most recent financial statements of these undertakings and the management accounts are used to draw up the financial position and performance of each associate.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 147 15 Disposals Disposals of businesses during the year Thomas Cook UK Corporate Egypt & Foreign Neilson Essential Corporate Thomas Cook Exchange Active Travel Elegant Travel 1 Lebanon business Holidays Ltd Limited Resorts Gold Medal NATS Business Intourist Total m m m m m m m m Egypt m Gross consideration 7 5 9 2 14 45 38 14 134 Completion adjustments and transaction costs 1 8 1 8 1 1 14 Dividend paid to NCI 4 4 Net consideration 7 6 1 3 14 37 39 9 116 Carrying amount of net assets disposed 8 4 3 3 14 37 36 14 7 126 Profit loss on disposals 1 2 2 3 5 7 10 Cash impact of the disposals: Net consideration 7 6 1 3 14 37 39 9 116 Cash and cash equivalents 3 4 6 1 8 9 1 32 Net cash inflow outflow 4 2 5 2 6 28 39 8 84 Proceeds on disposal in the Group cash flow statement includes a 9m termination penalty connected to Gold Medal, detailed below.
2 The dividend paid to NCI of 4m is included in the table above and is then presented separately in the cash flow statement.
None of the disposals listed below meet the criteria for a discontinued operation.
Thomas Cook Egypt & Thomas Cook Lebanon On 9 October 2013, the Group announced that it had sold 100% of the Thomas Cook Egypt and Thomas Cook Lebanon businesses to Yusuf Bin Ahmed Kanoo Holdings Co WLL of Bahrain.
Thomas Cook CFX Limited On 18 November 2013, the Group sold its UK Corporate Foreign Exchange business, Thomas Cook CFX Ltd, to Moneycorp.
Neilson Active Holidays Limited On 10 December 2013, the Group sold its specialist activity tour operator Neilson Active Holidays Ltd to the private equity firm Risk Capital Partners.
Essential Travel Limited On 24 January 2014, the Group sold its UK ancillary travel products business Essential Travel Limited to Holiday Extras Group.
The Group settled deferred consideration of 4m which was agreed at the time of the acquisition of Essential Travel Limited acquired in March2010.
Elegant Resorts Limited On 7 February 2014, the Group sold its UK luxury travel tour operator Elegant Resorts Limited to Al Tayyar, a leading global travel group based in Saudi Arabia.
3 Gold Medal Limited On 27 February 2014, the Group sold Gold Medal, a UK-based distributor of long haul scheduled flights, hotels and car hire, to dnata, the Dubai-based travel company which is part of the Emirates Group.
The disposal generated net cash of 28m before payment of a 9m termination penalty that crystallised following the sale.
This payment is included in proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries in the cash flow.
NATS Holding Limited On 19 November 2013, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell 91.5% of its shareholding and loan note interests in The Airline Group Limited, which is a 41.9% shareholder in NATS Holding Limited, to Universities Superannuation Scheme Limited.
The disposal was completed on 18 March 2014, following competition clearance from the European Commission.
Corporate Business Travel On 27 May 2014, the Group announced the sale of the UK corporate travel business Co-operative Travel Management to Mawasem Travel & Tourism Ltd for a consideration of 14m.
The net consideration of 9m includes a 4m dividend payable to non-controlling interest which is shown separately in the cash flow within investing activities.
Intourist Egypt On 10 September 2014, the Group sold 100% of the incoming agency intourist Egypt to Essam Michel.
Thomas Cook Canada Inc. and Thomas Cook USA Holdings Inc. On 1 May 2013, the Group sold Thomas Cook Canada Inc. and Thomas Cook USA Holdings Inc. During the year ended 30 September 2014, theGroup received the final cash payment of 1m in respect of the sale.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 148 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Inventories 2014 2013 m m Goods held for resale 10 5 Airline spares and other operating inventories 24 23 34 28 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense was 185m 2013: 189m.
17 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets Other receivables 13 24 Deposits and prepayments 91 115 Loans 2 3 Securities 1 106 143 Current assets Trade receivables 252 270 Other receivables 44 43 Deposits and prepayments 390 444 Loans 4 4 Amounts owed by associates and participations 1 2 Other taxes 14 22 705 785 Participations are equity investments where the Group has a significant equity participation but which are not considered to be associates.
The average credit period taken on invoicing of leisure travel services is 11 days 2013: 12 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
The credit risk in respect of direct receivables from customers is limited as payment is required in full before the services are provided.
In the case of travel services sold by third-party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third-parties, but this risk is also limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
The Groups current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in advance.
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during those periods.
Deposits and prepayments also include 53m 2013: 32m of deposits on aircraft lease arrangements which are primarily attributable to the UK airline.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Allowances for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed in the business units where the debts arise and are based on local management experience.
Factors that are considered include the age of the debt, previous experience with the counterparty and local trading conditions.
Trade receivables arise from individual customers as well as businesses in the travel sector.
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 149 17 Trade and other receivables continued Movement in allowances for doubtful receivables 2014 2013 m m At beginning of year 44 56 1 Additional provisions 14 8 Exchange differences 2 Disposals 1 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1 Receivables written off 12 16 Unused amounts released 8 4 At the end of year 38 44 At the year end, trade and other receivables of 69m 2013: 110m were past due but not impaired.
The analysis of the age of these financial assets is set out below: Ageing analysis of overdue trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Less than one month overdue 42 56 Between one and three months overdue 15 30 2 Between three and twelve months overdue 10 13 More than twelve months overdue 2 11 69 110 Trade and other receivables are not subject to restrictions on title and no collateral is held as security.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values.
18 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 403 411 Term deposits 616 678 1,019 1,089 Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise bank balances denominated in Sterling, Euro and other currencies for the purpose of settling current liabilities as well as balances arising from agency collection on behalf of the Groups travel agencies.
3 Included within the above balance are the following amounts considered to be restricted: 38m 2013: 53m held within escrow accounts in UK, Switzerland and the Czech Republic in respect of local regulatory requirements: 18m 2013: 14m of cash held by White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, and Voyager Android Insurance Services, the Groups captive insurance companies: and 1m 2013: 8m of cash held in countries where exchange control restrictions are in force Egypt, Lebanon, Tunisia and Morocco, net of cash available to repay local debt in those countries.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets approximate to their fair value.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 150 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m Current liabilities Trade payables 1,268 1,296 Amounts owed to associates and participations 2 3 Social security and other taxes 56 68 Accruals and deferred income 613 514 Other payables 144 114 2,083 1,995 Non-current liabilities Accruals and deferred income 2 4 Other payables 88 93 90 97 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 72 days 2013: 66 days.
Included within other payables non-current liabilities of 88m is 82m 2013: 75m that represents the carrying value of a contingent obligation to acquire from The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative now Central England Co-operative their shares representing a 33.5% ownership interest in the UK retail joint venture with the Company, formed by the merger of the three companies high street retail stores in 2012.
The discounted obligation was recognised at the time of the merger and its fair value is subsequently reassessed at each period end as the minority shareholders have the right, after 30 September 2016, to require the Company to acquire their shares at 4.0x EBITDA of the joint venture.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
20 Borrowings 2014 2013 m m Short-term borrowings Unsecured bank loans and other borrowings 82 135 Unsecured bank overdrafts 2 3 84 138 Current portion of long-term borrowings 365 39 449 177 Long-term borrowings Bank loans and bonds: repayable within one year 365 39 repayable between one and five years 308 690 repayable after five years 407 424 1,080 1,153 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities 365 39 Amount due for settlement after one year 715 1,114 Borrowings by class 2014 2013 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Group committed credit facility including transaction costs 82 12 19 Aircraft-related bank loans including transaction costs 53 11 39 65 Bank and other borrowings 4 12 138 15 Issued bonds including transaction costs 310 704 1,053 449 715 177 1,114 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 151 20 Borrowings continued The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups borrowings with a carrying value of 1,164m is 1,227m 2013: carrying value 1,291m: fair value 1,350m.
1,077m 2013: 1,112m of the fair value which relates to issued bonds has been calculated using quoted market prices.
For all other borrowings, the Directors consider that the fair value of 150m 2013: 238m is approximate to the carrying amount.
In 2014, theGroup has 63m as a security to aircraft 2013: 103m and 14m as a security to property 2013: 16m.
1 During the year, 9m 2013: 7m of the capitalised transaction costs relating to banking facilities have been recognised within finance costs inthe income statement.
On 27 June 2013, the Group completed a major 1.6bn recapitalisation of the business which included: a 2 for 5 rights issue of 409,029,271 new Ordinary Shares at 76 pence per new Ordinary Share raising gross proceeds of 431m: issue of a new 525m Eurobond with a coupon of 7.75% which matures in June 2020: and a new 470m four-year banking facility maturing in May 2017 to replace prior facilities, together with an additional 191m facility available from 2015 and a separate 30m bonding facility which matures in May 2015.
Borrowing facilities As at 30 September 2014, the Group had undrawn committed debt facilities of 297m 2013: 290m and undrawn committed debt facilities plus cash available to repay revolving credit facility of 1,168m 2013:1,207m.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
The Group has complied with its covenants throughout the year.
Covenant measures The covenant measures are tested on a quarterly rolling 12 month basis and consist of a leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant.
The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating lease rentals compared to net debt.
The fixed charge covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease charges compared to net interest and operating lease charges.
The leverage and fixed charge covenant 2 hurdles vary depending on the period that they relate to and range between 1.54x to 3.59x and 1.84x to 2.45x respectively.
21 Obligations under finance leases Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 47 59 34 43 Between one and five years 148 165 119 126 After five years 35 67 28 56 230 291 181 225 Less: future finance charges 49 66 Present value of lease obligations 181 225 181 225 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 34 43 3 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 147 182 The currency analysis of amounts payable under finance leases is: 2014 2013 m m Euro 13 15 US dollar 168 210 181 225 Finance leases principally relate to aircraft and aircraft spares.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups finance lease obligations with a carrying value of 181m was 181m at 30 September 2014 2013: carrying value 225m: fair value 239m.
The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the interest rates for the corresponding terms to repayment as at the year end.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over theleased assets.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 152 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments Carrying values of financial assets and liabilities The carrying values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are as set out below: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 Derivative Derivative instruments Financial instruments Financial in designated liabilities at in designated liabilities at Held hedging Loans & Availableamortised Held hedging Loans & Availableamortised for trading relationships receivables for-sale cost for trading relationships receivables for-sale cost m m m m m m m m m m Non-current asset investments 1 Trade and other receivables 397 404 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,019 1,089 Trade and other payables 1,898 1,922 Borrowings 1,164 1,290 Obligations under finance leases 181 225 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 371 395 Derivative financial instruments 5 23 2 40 5 23 1,416 3,614 2 40 1,493 2 3,832 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2014 were: Interest rate Currency Fuel swaps contracts contracts Total m m m m At 1 October 2012 4 35 6 33 Movement in fair value during the year 1 3 5 9 At 1 October 2013 5 38 1 42 Movement in fair value during the year 16 80 36 60 At 30 September 2014 11 42 35 18 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 19 Current assets 68 25 Current liabilities 66 64 Non-current liabilities 3 3 18 42 Fair value hierarchy The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in hierarchy levels depending on the valuation method applied.
The different methods are defined as follows: Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments Level 2: valued using techniques based on information that can be obtained from observable market data Level 3: v alued using techniques incorporating information other than observable market data as at least one input to the valuation cannot be based on observable market data.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 153 22 Financial instruments continued The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out below: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Financial assets 1 Currency contracts 72 72 Fuel contracts 4 4 Interest rate swaps 11 11 Financial liabilities Currency contracts 30 30 Fuel contracts 39 39 Interest rate swaps At 30 September 2014 18 18 Financial assets Currency contracts 15 15 Fuel contracts 10 10 Securities 1 1 Financial liabilities Currency contracts 53 53 Fuel contracts 9 9 2 Interest rate swaps 5 5 At 30 September 2013 1 42 41 The fair values of financial instruments have been calculated using discounted cash ow analysis.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge significant future transactions and cash ows denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group enters into foreign currency forward contracts, swaps and options in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
The fair value of currency contracts designated in a cash ow hedge as at 30 September 2014, was an asset of 47m 2013: 33m liability.
Currency hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of the forecasted requirement.
As at 30 September 2014, the Group had in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of February 2016 2013: October 2014.
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel.
The Group enters into xed price contracts swaps and net purchased options in the management of its fuel price exposures.
All fuel hedges are designated as cash ow hedges.
Fuel price hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 18 months in advance of forecasted consumption of fuel.
Trades with maturities longer than 18 months need additional approval in line with treasury policy.
As at 30 September 2014, the Group had in place fuel price hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of April 2016 2013: December 2014.
3 In addition, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to hedge against interest rate movements in connection with the nancing of aircraft and other assets and to hedge against interest rate exposures on xed rate debt.
The Group also enters into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and the currency exposure on foreign currency external borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency contracts in designated fair value hedge relationships at 30 September 2014, was an asset of 11m 2013: 2m liability and in designated cash ow hedge relationships at 30 September 2014, was a liability of nil 2013: 3m liability.
As at 30 September 2014, the maximum maturity of interest rate derivatives was June 2020 2013: June 2020.
The fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments have been calculated using underlying market prices available on 30 September 2014.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 154 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments continued During the year, a loss of 45m 2013: 9m loss was transferred from the hedge reserve to the income statement following recognition of the hedged transactions.
The amount included in each line item in the income statement is shown below.
In addition, a loss of 2m was recognised in the income statement in respect of the forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2013: 2m gain and a loss of 2m in respect of the movement in the time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships 2013: 4m loss.
2014 2013 m m Cost of providing tourism services: release from hedge reserve 45 9 time value on options 2 4 Finance income costs : forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2 2 fair value movements on derivatives in designated fair value hedge 11 3 During the year, a loss of 27m 2013: 2m loss was taken directly to the income statement in respect of held for trading derivatives that are used to hedge Group balance sheet exposure.
This has been recorded within net foreign exchange gain for the year of 39m 2013: 12m gain which is included within cost of providing tourism services.
The closing hedging reserve, excluding the impact of tax, was a gain of 13m 2013: 32m loss.
The periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur and when they are expected to impact the income statement are a gain of 7m 2013: 30m loss within one year and a gain of 6m 2013: 2m loss between one and five years.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar arrangements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognised financial Gross amounts of liabilities assets Net amounts recognised financial set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral assets liabilities balance sheet balance sheet Instruments received Net amount As at 30 September 2014 m m m m m m Derivatives financial assets 87 87 47 40 Derivatives financial liabilities 69 69 47 22 Cash and cash equivalents 1,665 646 1,019 1,019 Bank overdrafts 648 646 2 2 Total 1,035 1,035 1,035 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognised Gross amounts of financial liabilities Net amounts recognised financial assets set off in the presented in the Financial Cash collateral assets liabilities balancesheet balance sheet Instruments received Net amount As at 30 September 2013 m m m m m m Derivatives financial assets 25 25 24 1 Derivatives financial liabilities 67 67 24 43 Cash and cash equivalents 3,345 2,256 1,089 1,089 Bank overdrafts 2,259 2,256 3 3 Total 1,044 1,044 1,044 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 155 23 Financial risk The Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, fuel prices, counterparty credit and liquidity within the framework of its business operations.
Interest rate risk 1 The Group is subject to risks arising from interest rate movements in connection with the issue of Eurobonds, bank debt, aircraft financing andcash investments.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage these risks and are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has activities in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
These risks arise in connection with the procurement of services in destinations outside the source market.
For example, US Dollar exposure arises on the procurement of fuel and operating supplies for aircraft, as well as investments in aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect the commercial risk of each underlying business.
Each segmental hedging policy includes the hedging build up and permitted instruments.
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season.
The Group uses currency forwards, currency swaps and currency options to manage currency risks and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
Fuel price risk Exposure to fuel price risk arises due to flying costs incurred by the Groups aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect 2 the commercial risk of each underlying business.
The maximum hedge tenor is 18 months and in general each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season.
The Group uses commodity derivative contracts, including fixed price contracts swaps and net purchased options to manage fuel price risk and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The market risks that the Group is subject to have been identified as interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and fuel price risk.
The impact of reasonably possible changes in these risk variables on the Group, based on the period end holdings of financial instruments have been calculated and are set out in the tables below.
In each case it has been assumed that all other variables remain constant.
As at 30 September 2014, the sensitivity of these risks to the defined scenario changes are set out below: Interest rate risk 2014 2013 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 1% 2013: 1% increase in interest rates 6 4 0.25% 2013: 0.25% decrease in interest rates 1 1 3 Foreign exchange rate risk 2014 2013 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 5% 2013: 5% strengthening of Euro 1 17 57 11 5% 2013: 5% weakening of Euro 16 45 2 5% 2013: 5% strengthening of US Dollar 5 70 6 65 5% 2013: 5% weakening of US Dollar 4 65 3 53 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 156 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Financial risk continued Fuel price risk 2014 2013 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 10% 2013: 10% increase in fuel price 3 52 43 10% 2013: 10% decrease in fuel price 3 52 5 38 Given recent historical movements in fuel prices, management believes a 10% shift is a reasonable possibility.
Liquidity risk The liquidity position of the Group is significantly influenced by the booking and payment pattern of customers.
As a result, liquidity is at its lowest in the winter months and at its highest in the summer months.
The Group manages the seasonal nature of its liquidity by making use of its bank facility, the terms of which, including the covenant measures, are detailed in the borrowings note refer to Note 20.
The Group also uses liquidity swaps to manage short-term currency positions.
These liquidity swaps are presented as held-for-trading financial instruments.
The undrawn committed debt facility plus the cash available ranged between 169m and 1,168m during the current financial year 2013: 218m1,234m.
Surplus short-term liquidity is invested in accordance with approved treasury policy.
Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the period end and their contractual maturity.
The amounts shown are estimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value.
2014 2013 Amounts due Amounts due between between in less than 3 and 12 between in more than in less than 3 and 12 between in more than 3 months months 1 and 5 years 5 years Total 3 months months 1 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m m m m Trade and other payables 1,576 230 88 4 1,898 1,753 73 92 4 1,922 Borrowings 95 380 365 587 1,427 147 32 825 644 1,648 Obligations under financeleases 12 34 148 35 229 13 46 165 67 291 Derivative financial instruments: payable 681 1,311 388 2,380 1,084 1,234 139 2,456 receivable 686 1,311 401 2,398 1,079 1,193 132 2,404 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 72 157 77 65 371 51 181 124 39 395 1,750 801 665 691 3,907 1,969 372 1,213 754 4,308 For all gross settled derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts and swaps, the pay and receive leg has been disclosed in the table above.
For net settled derivative financial instruments, such as fuel swaps and options, the fair value as at the year end of those instruments in a liability position has been disclosed in the table above.
Trade and other payables include non-financial liabilities of 277m 2013: 170m which have not been analysed above.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to deposits, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables.
The maximum exposure in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is their carrying value.
The Group assesses its counterparty exposure in relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts and undrawn credit facilities.
The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and to define the credit limit for each counterparty in accordance with approved treasury policies.
The Groups approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in Note 17.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 157 24 Insurance Management of insurance risk Incidental to its main business, the Group, through its subsidiary White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited, issues contracts that transfer significant insurance risk and that are classified as insurance contracts.
As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk the possibility 1 of having to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.
Business written includes standard commercial risks for the Group and travel insurance for both Group and non-Group customers, however the commercial risks for the Group were fully commuted prior to the financial year end.
The principal nature of travel insurance risks is one of short term, low value and high volume.
Underwriting performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and pricing reviewed annually for each individual contract.
Exposure is capped by specific limits within the insurance policy and byusing reinsurance contracts for any claims in excess of these retention limits.
Commercial policies have been fully commuted at the year end.
Insurance risk is spread across several European countries where the Group operates including the UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.
When estimating the cost of claims outstanding at the year end, the principal assumption underlying the estimates is the Groups past development pattern.
This includes assumptions in respect of historic claims costs, average claims handling expenses and market developments.
The Group also uses an independent actuary to review its liabilities to ensure that the carrying values are adequate.
Any changes to these variables are not expected to have a material effect on the Group financial statements.
The Group operates a reinsurance policy approved by the White Horse Insurance Ireland Ltd Board of Directors which ensures that reinsurers have a financial stability rating of A S&P.
The Group has assessed these credit ratings as being satisfactory in diminishing the Groups exposure to the credit risk of its insurance receivables.
25 Deferred tax 2 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year: Aircraft Retirement Fair value Other finance benefit of financial temporary leases obligations instruments differences Tax losses Total m m m m m m At 30 September 2013 63 43 26 161 115 Charge credit to income 4 3 2 54 33 16 Credit charge to equity 19 10 9 Reclassifications 55 55 Disposals 3 3 Other 4 4 Exchange differences 5 3 5 4 3 At 30 September 2014 62 56 4 23 179 146 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes: 3 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax liabilities 49 53 Deferred tax assets 195 168 146 115 At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of 3,150m 2013: 2,625m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised where there is sufficient probability that there will be future taxable profits against which the assets may be recovered.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 158 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Deferred tax continued No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses of 2,340m 2013: 1,941m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Other temporary differences on which deferred tax has been provided primarily relate to the difference in book to tax value on qualifying tax assets, provisions for which tax relief was not originally available, and fair value accounting on assets acquired as part of the merger.
In addition, the Group had unused other temporary differences in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised amounting to295m 2013: 385m, also due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Deferred tax liabilities were offset against the corresponding deferred tax assets where both items fell within the responsibility of the same tax authority.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and 20% effective from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, resulting in a UK current tax rate of 22% applicable to the year ended 30 September 2014.
The UK deferred tax assets at 30 September 2014, have been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
26 Provisions Aircraft Reorganisation Deferred and maintenance Off-market Insurance and and restructuring contingent Other provisions leases litigation plans consideration provisions Total m m m m m m m At 1 October 2013 256 30 40 43 5 45 419 Additional provisions in the year 96 1 97 17 7 218 Unused amounts released in the year 21 9 4 4 7 45 Unwinding of discount 6 3 3 12 Utilisation of provisions 97 9 43 32 5 19 205 Exchange differences 6 1 1 1 9 At 30 September 2014 234 15 90 23 28 390 2014 2013 m m Included in current liabilities 247 247 Included in non-current liabilities 143 172 390 419 The aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance on leased aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines in respect of leases which include contractual return conditions.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of the aircraft with major overhauls typically occurring between two and ten years.
The aircraft maintenance provisions are re-assessed at least annually in the normal course of business with a corresponding adjustment made to either non-current assets aircraft and aircraft spares or aircraft costs.
Off-market leases relate to leases acquired in previous years through the Resort Mallorca Hotels International S. L. U. Hi!Hotels acquisition, TheCo-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative, and MyTravel Group plc mergers, which have commitments in excess of the market rate atthe time of the transaction.
Insurance and litigation represents costs related to legal disputes, customer compensation claims and estimated costs arising through insurance contracts in the Groups subsidiary, White Horse Insurance Ireland Limited.
Reorganisation and restructuring plans predominantly represent committed restructuring costs in the UK and Continental Europe segments.
Other represents liabilities where there is uncertainty of the timing or amount of the future expenditure required in settlement and includes such items as onerous contracts, dilapidations and emissions trading liabilities.
This grouping contains no single category larger than 15m.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 159 27 Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale There are no discontinued operations or assets classified as held for sale in 2014.
Following the sale on 1 May 2013 of the business previously disclosed within the North America segment, the results of these businesses have been included as discontinued operations.
1 Consolidated income statement discontinued operations Year ended 30 September 2013 Separately Underlying disclosed results items Total m m m Revenue 175 175 Cost of providing tourism services 143 143 Gross profit 32 32 Personnel expenses 22 22 Depreciation and amortisation 3 3 Net operating expenses 10 10 Profit loss on disposal of assets 4 4 Impairment of goodwill and amortisation of business combination intangibles 1 1 Loss profit from operations 3 3 Loss profit before tax 3 3 2 Tax Profit loss for the year Cash flows discontinued operations 2013 m Net cash used in operating activities 30 Net cash used in from investing activities 2 Assets classified as held-for-sale 2013 m Assets Property, plant and equipment 8 Non-current asset investments 37 Inventories 4 Trade and other receivables 16 3 Cash and cash equivalents 5 70 2013 m Liabilities Trade and other payables 17 17 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 160 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Called-up share capital Allotted, called-up and Allotted, called-up and fully paid partly paid Ordinary shares Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares Deferred shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares of 0.10 each of 0.01 each of 0.09 each of 1 each, of 0.10 each of 0.01 each of 0.09 each m m m 25p paid At 1 October 2012 885,900,334 60 50,000 Exercise of warrants 49,081,604 21,800,777 4 Capital reorganisation 934,981,938 934,981,938 934,981,938 64 6 58 Private placement 87,591,241 1 Rights issue 409,029,271 4 At 30 September 2013 1,453,403,227 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 Exercise of warrants 7,373,186 At 30 September 2014 1,460,776,413 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the sterling-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the holders of the euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each euro-denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary Shares and sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both classes of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares As at 30 September 2014, options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were outstanding with respect to the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan, the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan and the Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Save As You Earn Scheme.
For further details refer to Note 31.
On exercise, the awards of shares under the plan will be satisfied by either purchases in the market of existing shares or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.
As part of the 200m bank facility announced on 25 November 2011, the Company issued warrants to certain of its lenders, giving holders theright, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of 42,914,640 Ordinary Shares representing approximately 4.9% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of issue at a subscription price per share of 19.875 pence.
On 10 May 2012, the Company issued warrants as part of the bank facility amendment announced on 5 May 2012 to certain of its lenders, giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of 43,749,516 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 5.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of issue subsequently increased by 4,440,376 Ordinary Shares toreflect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013, at a subscription price per share of 0.10 subsequently adjusted to 0.0857282 to reflect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013.
In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility announced in November 2011, were re-priced to the same exercise price.
As at 25 November 2014, three Warrantholders had exercised theirSubscription Rights in respect of 7,373,186 Warrants exercised into Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis.
Own shares held in trust Shares of the Company are held under trust by EES Trustees International Limited in respect of the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan and the Thomas Cook Restricted Share Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited hold shares in connection with the Thomas Cook Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme.
In accordance with IFRS, these are treated as Treasury Shares and are included in other reserves in the balance sheet.
The number of shares held at 30 September 2014 by EES Trustees International Limited and Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, was 20,865,104 2013:17,245,721 and 381,015 2013: 438,615 respectively.
The cumulative cost of acquisition of these shares was 30m 2013: 30m and the market value at 30 September 2014 was 25m 2013: 27m.
Shares held by the Trust have been excluded from theweighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns forShareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent asshownin the Group balance sheet.
At the balance sheet date the Group had total capital of 573m 2013: 931m.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 161 29 Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 1 Property Aircraft and Property Aircraft and and other aircraft spares Total and other aircraft spares Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 m m m m m m Within one year 72 96 168 60 65 125 Later than one and less than five years 178 357 535 141 241 382 After five years 146 473 619 176 477 653 396 926 1,322 377 783 1,160 Operating lease rentals payable charged to the income statement for hire of aircraft and aircraft spares was 106m 2013: 101m and other 102m 2013: 115m.
Operating lease payments principally relate to rentals payable for the Groups retail shop and hotel properties and for aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines.
Shop leases are typically negotiated for an average term of five years.
Leases for new aircraft are typically negotiated for an average term of 12 years: leases for second-hand aircraft and extensions are typically much shorter.
30 Contingent liabilities 2014 2013 m m Contingent liabilities 102 101 2 Contingent liabilities primarily comprise guarantees, letters of credit and other contingent liabilities, including contingent liabilities related to structured aircraft leases, all of which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The amounts disclosed above represent the Groups contractual exposure.
The Group complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts and has all the necessary licences for the various sales markets.
The customers right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts paid in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in all Thomas Cook sales markets in line with local legislation and within the various guarantee systems applied.
In the United Kingdom, there is a fund mechanism whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking.
Customer rights in relation to Thomas Cook Group in Germany, Belgium and Austria are guaranteed via an insolvency insurance system, in Ireland, Scandinavia and France via guarantees provided by banks and insurance companies, and in the Netherlands via a guaranteed fund.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to commercial disputes and litigation including customer claims, employee disputes and other kinds of lawsuits.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on best estimates and management judgement but there can be no guarantee that these provisions will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
There are also contingent liabilities in respect of litigation for which no provisions are made.
31 Share-based payments 3 The Company operates five equity-settled share-based payment schemes, as outlined below.
The total charge recognised during the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 4m 2013: 8m charge.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan PSP and the HM Revenue & Customs Approved Company Share Option Sub-Plan CSOSP Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
The awards will vest if performance targets including adjusted earnings per share EPS, total Shareholder return TSR and the Companys share price are met during the three years following the date of grant.
Subject to vesting conditions, the options are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Co-Investment Plan COIP Executive Directors and senior executives may be required to purchase the Companys shares using a proportion of their net bonus LodgedShares.
For each Lodged Share purchased, participants may receive up to 3.5 Matching Shares if performance targets for EPS, return on invested capital ROIC, TSR and the Companys share price are met during the three years following the date of grant.
Subject to vestingconditions, the options or contingent share awards are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 162 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE Eligible employees across the Group were offered options to purchase shares in the Company by entering into a three or four-year savings contract.
The option exercise price was set at a 10% 2010 grant or 20% 2008 grant discount to the market price at the offer date.
Options are exercisable during the six months after the end of the savings contract.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2008 HM Revenue & Customs Approved Buy As You Earn Scheme BAYE Eligible UK tax-paying employees are offered the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company by deduction from their monthly gross pay.
For every 10 shares an employee buys in this way, the Company will purchase one matching share on their behalf.
The Thomas Cook Group plc Restricted Share Plan RSP Senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Executive Directors are excluded from receiving awards under the RSP.
The Company will determine at the date of award whether theaward will be subject to a performance target and the date of vesting.
Subject to any vesting conditions, the options or contingent share awards are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.
The movements in options and awards during the year and prior year were: 2014 PSP Other Outstanding at beginning of year 31,899,162 5,440,212 Granted 3,451,942 2,267,869 Exercised 807,281 688,342 Lapsed 2,851,735 1,929,368 Cancelled 244,642 Forfeited 1,204,426 537,976 Outstanding at end of year 30,487,662 4,307,753 Exercisable at end of year 95,653 58,260 Exercise price nil 1.77 Average remaining contractual life years 1.3 2.2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2014 was 1.64.
2013 2013 PSP Other Outstanding at beginning of year 26,561,228 7,995,734 Granted 10,791,150 895,809 Exercised 164,107 82,642 Forfeited 8,164,900 1,675,410 Lapsed 115,405 Cancelled 2,452,803 Rights issue adjustment 2,875,791 874,929 Outstanding at end of year 31,899,162 5,440,212 Exercisable at end of year 100,682 1,882,104 Exercise price nil 1.97 Average remaining contractual life years 8.7 6.2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2013 was 1.45.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 163 31 Share-based payments continued The fair value of options and awards subject to adjusted EPS and ROIC performance targets was determined by the use of Black-Scholes models and the fair value of options subject to TSR performance targets was determined by the use of Monte Carlo simulations.
For options and awards granted during the year the key inputs to the models were: 2014 2013 1 PSP PSP Weighted average share price at measurement date 1.45 1.07 Weighted average exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 40% 50% Weighted average option life years 3 3 Weighted average risk-free rate 1.3% 0.9% Expected dividend yield nil nil Weighted average fair value at date of grant 1.02 0.45 Expected volatility has been based on the historic volatility of the Companys shares and the shares of other companies in the same or related sectors.
32 Retirement benefit schemes Pension schemes for the employees of the Thomas Cook Group consist of defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans, with the defined benefit plans being both funded and unfunded.
The obligations arising from defined contribution plans are satisfied by contribution payments to both private and state-run insurance providers.
2 2014 2013 Present value of funded obligations 1,119 998 Fair value of plan assets 1,001 890 Deficit of funded plans 118 108 Present value of unfunded obligations 329 296 Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 447 404 Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations Unfunded defined benefit pension obligations primarily relate to the Groups employees in the German businesses of Thomas Cook AG and the Condor Group.
Provisions are established on the basis of commitments made to those employees for old-age and transitional pensions based on the legal, tax and economic circumstances of the individual countries and on the period of employment and level of remuneration of the respective employees.
Provisions for pensions and similar obligations totalling 277m 2013: 252m were attributable to the pension commitments of the Condor Group Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Condor Berlin GmbH and CF GmbH.
For employees who joined a Condor Group company prior to 1995, 3 thetotal pension commitment of the pensions authority of the German federal government and regional states was adjusted and maintained in the form of a company pension scheme.
The flight crews were additionally entitled to a transitional provision for the period between the termination of their in-flight employment andthe time they became eligible for a state-run or company pension.
In both cases, the benefit commitment depended on the final salaries ofthe employees concerned prior to the termination of their in-flight employment final salary plan.
Employees who joined a Condor Group company from 1995 onwards participate in a company pension scheme under which the pension entitlements are based on the average salaries of those employees average salary plan.
The Condor Group also has retirement obligations arising from individual commitments and transitional provisions.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report 164 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Retirement benefit schemes continued In accordance with IAS 19, all these commitments are classified as unfunded defined benefit obligations and classified as such in these financial statements.
The Condor Group defined benefit plans have been closed to new entrants with the exception of pilots since 2004.
There are additional unfunded defined benefit obligations comprising individual commitments to executive staff at Thomas Cook Group and obligations in respect of past service for employees in the Northern Europe and Continental Europe segments.
The unfunded pension schemes are accounted for as part of liabilities for retirement benefit obligations in the balance sheet.
The following weighted average actuarial assumptions were made for the purpose of determining the unfunded defined benefit obligations: 2014 2013 % % Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.60 3.75 Expected rate of salary increases 2.62 2.62 Future pension increases 1.92 1.42 The mortality tables 2005 G drawn up by Prof. Dr. Klaus Heubeck were used as the basis for the mortality assumptions used in arriving at the present value of the pension obligations at 30 September 2014.
These assume a life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 19 years for men and 23 years for women.
Changes in the present value of unfunded pension obligations were as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m At beginning of year 296 254 Current service cost 10 11 Past service cost 6 1 Interest cost 10 11 Benefits paid 7 7 Settlements 5 2 Curtailments 1 Effect of experience adjustments and demographic assumptions 2 6 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 62 14 Business combinations 5 3 Exchange difference 24 12 At end of year 329 296 These amounts have been recognised in the income statement.
Service costs, gains on settlement and curtailment gains have been included in personnel expenses in the income statement and the unwinding of the discount rate of the expected retirement benefit obligations has been included in finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Funded defined benefit pension obligations The pension entitlements of employees of Thomas Cook UK and employees in Norway and the Netherlands are provided through funded defined benefit schemes, where pension contributions are paid over to the schemes and the assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
The plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on a members length of service and their salary in the final years of active membership.
In the UK plans, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with retail price index, pensions in deferment are generally updated in line with consumer price index.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries in each country.
The fair value of the pension assets in each scheme at the year end is compared with the present value of the retirement benefit obligations and the net difference reported as a pension asset or retirement benefit obligation as appropriate.
Pension assets are only recognised to the extent that they will result in reimbursements being made or future payments being reduced.
The Thomas Cook UK Pension Plan accounts for approximately 92% 2013: 92% of the total funded defined benefit obligations.
The mortality assumptions used in arriving at the present value of those obligations at 30 September 2014 are based on the PMA92 PFA92 tables with medium cohort improvements and a minimum future longevity improvement per year of 1%, adjusted for recent mortality experience.
The mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 23.2 years for men and 25.2 years for women.
The Company and Board of trustees are responsible for governance of the plans and ensuring it is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefits.
The trustees appoint advisers to carry out theadministration, actuarial work and investment advice.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 165 32 Retirement benefit schemes continued Following the 2011 actuarial valuation of the Thomas Cook UK pension plan, a Recovery Plan was agreed with the pension trustees to fund the actuarial deficit.
During the year ended 30 September 2014, Thomas Cook UK paid five instalments totalling 26m in line with the recovery plan.
1 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: Present value Fair value Restated of obligation of plan assets Total At 1 October 2012 888 811 77 Current service cost 3 3 Interest expense income 39 36 3 Expenses paid 3 3 39 33 6 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 40 40 Experience losses and demographic assumptions 93 93 93 40 53 Exchange differences 2 1 1 Employers contributions 28 28 Benefit payments from plan 24 24 At 30 September 2013 998 889 109 2 At 1 October 2013 998 889 109 Current service cost 1 1 Past service cost 2 2 Interest expense income 45 40 5 44 40 4 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 75 75 Loss from change in financial assumptions 104 104 Experience losses and demographic assumptions 2 2 106 75 31 Exchange differences 2 3 1 Expenses paid 2 2 Employers contributions 29 29 Payments from plans: 3 Settlement payments 6 6 Benefit payments 21 21 At 30 September 2014 1,119 1,001 118 The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2014 2013 % % Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.08 4.41 Inflation rate RPI 2.47 3.14 Expected rate of salary increases 2.42 0.02 Future pension increases 2.21 0.25 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 166 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Retirement benefit schemes continued The mortality assumptions adopted for the plan liabilities indicate a further life expectancy for members currently aged 65 of 21.8 years for men and 24.2 years for women.
The fair value of the plan assets is detailed below: 2014 2013 Quoted Non-quoted Total % Quoted Non-quoted Total % Plan assets are comprised as follows: Cash and cash equivalents 12 12 1 9 9 1 Equity instruments 280 280 28 277 277 31 Debt instruments 249 249 25 234 234 26 Real estate 86 86 9 81 81 9 Derivatives 117 117 12 50 50 6 Investment funds 230 230 23 207 207 23 Assets held by insurance company 3 24 27 2 3 29 32 4 Total 977 24 1,001 100 861 29 890 100 The scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the Group.
The Scheme currently has part of its assets invested in a liability driven investment portfolio.
These assets, in combination with the other protection assets in the portfolio, provide interest rate and inflation rate protection relative to 40% of the value of the total scheme assets.
Sensitivities of the defined benefit obligation The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase inthe plans liabilities.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Change in Increase in Decrease in Impact on defined benefit obligation: assumption assumption assumption Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.25% 6% 6% Inflation rate 0.25% 4% 4% Mortality 1 year 3% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The expected future benefit payments are detailed below: Less than a year Between 12 years Between 25 years Over 5 years At 30 September 2014 m m m m Pension benefit payments 29 10 33 65 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 167 32 Retirement benefit schemes continued Defined contribution schemes There are a number of defined contribution schemes in the Group, the principal scheme being the Thomas Cook UK DC Pension Scheme, which is open to all UK employees.
Cash contributions paid into the defined contribution schemes are accounted for as an income statement expense 1 as they are incurred.
The total charge for the year in respect of this and other defined contribution schemes, including liabilities inrespect of insured benefits relating to workers compensation arrangements, amounted to 42m 2013: 37m.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
33 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Associates and participations 2014 2013 m m Sale of goods and services 8 13 Purchases of goods and services 11 12 2 Other income 3 2 Amounts owed by related parties 1 5 Provisions against amounts owed 3 Amounts owed to related parties 2 3 Participations are equity investments where the Group has a significant equity participation but which are not considered to be associates.
All transactions are considered to have been made at market prices.
Outstanding amounts will normally be settled by cash payment.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors and executive members of the Tour Operator Council and the Air Travel Council, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration report on pages 96 to 110.
2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 4 5 3 Share-based payments 1 5 5 The short-term employee benefits figure includes employer social security payments which are excluded from the Directors remuneration report.
Financial statements Governance Strategic report
