SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the date of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing also stipulate quarterly, bi-annual or annual payments with very Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which few of the arrangements not being co-terminus with the Groups FVTPL or other financial liabilities and trade and other payables.
The cost of equity-settled awards statutory year end, which: The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, Taxation other financial assets, cash and borrowings and derivative enab les the accurate quantification of amounts receivable based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable financial instruments.
from suppliers prior to their inclusion in the annual financial eventually vest.
statements: and The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL Provisions allo ws the Group to sense check the value of unpaid receivables Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group at the year-end by reference to cash received immediately after statement because it excludes items of income and expense that where the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for has a present legal or constructive obligation because of a past the year-end.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes trading or it is designated as FVTPL.
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability As a result the key judgements made are to determine the value of be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted rebates to be immediately recognised in the income statement and Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the trading if it: or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
the value to be deferred in stock.
obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present Has been acquired principally for the purpose of being sold or value where the effect is material.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Income taxes disposed of in the near future: or differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the United Equity instruments and own shares in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used Is a par t of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the in the computation of taxable profit.
This is accounted for using the the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing Group and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally short-term profit-taking: or income tax provisions, the Directors make a number of judgements attributable incremental issue costs.
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred and interpretations about the application and interaction of these Is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted laws.
Changes in these tax laws or in their interpretation could hedging instrument.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary from total shareholders equity.
Where such shares vest to affect the Groups effective tax rate and the results of operations in differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair employees under the terms of the Groups share incentive a given period.
Accordingly, potentially significant tax benefits will recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income schemes or the Groups share save schemes or are sold, any not be recognised until there is sufficient certainty that they will be from the initial recognition other than in a business combination statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
any interest earned or paid on the financial asset and financial Dividends Cash generating units liability respectively.
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to The Directors consider that individual assets do not generate cash period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
flows that are largely independent of those from other assets and Loans and receivables have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except consequently that, for the purposes of impairment testing, each Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in branch in the Group is a cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market which case the deferred tax is also dealt within equity.
testing of property, plant and equipment is carried out at individual are classified as loans and receivables.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES branch level and no write offs have been made.
Goodwill and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, OF ESTIMATION AND UNCERTAINTY other intangibles impairment testing is carried out at brand level as Retirement benefit costs less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying described in note 13.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables, which These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered applies to all amounts owed to the Group when the recognition of accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The preparation of Goodwill and other intangible assets services entitling them to the contributions.
financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and In testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of goodwill and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts intangible assets is determined by reference to the value in use For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is Other financial liabilities of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and of the CGU grouping to which they are attributed.
In addition the determined using the projected unit credit method with actuarial Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined Directors have made certain assumptions concerning discount valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires rates and the future development of the business that are Re-measurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effects liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and consistent with its five-year strategic plan.
Whilst the Directors of asset ceilings and minimum funding payments and the return effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an other factors such as historical experience, current and expected consider their assumptions to be realistic, should actual results, on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method economic conditions.
The Directors frequently re-evaluate these including those for market volume changes, be different from in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of significant factors and make adjustments where facts and expectations, for instance due to a worsening of the UK economy, of comprehensive income.
Re-measurement recorded in the allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The Directors believe that the following then it is possible that the value of goodwill and intangible assets statement of comprehensive income is not recycled.
Net interest interest is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash judgements are critical due to the degree of estimation required included in the balance sheet could become impaired.
is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, and or the potential material impact they may have on the liability or asset.
Net interest expense or income is recognised The pre-tax discount rate is derived from the Groups weighted where appropriate, a shorter period.
Groups financial position and performance.
average cost of capital WACC calculated by the Groups Where the Group is committed to pay additional contributions advisors.
The WACC is based upon the risk free rate for Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Supplier arrangements - supplier rebates under a minimum funding arrangement and it has no twenty-year UK gilts, adjusted for the UK market risk premium, The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the The value of supplier rebates included in the income statement is unconditional right to receive any surplus in a winding up of which reflects the increased risk of investing in UK equities and contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it generally calculated by applying an agreed percentage to the gross the scheme, the pension obligation recognised in the financial the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and supplier invoice price of the goods purchased.
statements is the higher of the IAS 19 revised 2011 obligation market as a whole.
In arriving at the discount rate the Directors rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group The overwhelming majority of supplier rebates, in excess of 95% or the net present value of future minimum funding payments, have applied an adjustment to reflect their view of the relative neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards by value, are determined by reference to guaranteed rates of discounted using the IAS 19 revised 2011 discount rate to which risk of the Groups operations.
Further details concerning the of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, rebate, the remainder are subject to stepped targets, the net rebate the Group is unconditionally committed.
judgements made by the Directors in respect of goodwill and the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an percentage increasing as values or volumes purchased reach intangible assets and the impairment testing thereof, are given associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group pre-agreed targets.
Only one rebate agreement is not co-terminus in note 13. retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a Employee share incentive plans with the Groups year end.
transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for employees long-term incentives, executive share options and Amounts receivable under most Supplier Arrangements are the proceeds received.
These payments are measured at fair value at earned and settled monthly, although some agreements may 142 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 143
