SECTION HEAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash Flow Statements Notes to the financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 The Group is however, exposed to a number of significant risks 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Group The Company and uncertainties, which could affect the Groups ability to meet Overview managements projections and hence its ability to meet its banking 2014 2013 2014 2013 Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United covenants.
The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the m m m m to react to changing market conditions and is adequately placed to registered office is given on page 192.
The nature of the Groups manage its business risks successfully.
operations and its principal activities are set out in the Business Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 384.0 347.6 178.5 102.9 and Strategy Review on pages 6 to 57.
Detailed considerations of going concern, risks and uncertainties Adjustments for: are provided in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 63.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 74.9 71.3 0.1 0.1 currency of the primary economic environment in which the After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement Group operates.
Amortisation of internally generated intangibles at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a 0.7 - - - reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Other non cash movements 9.9 13.7 1.2 3.8 Basis of accounting adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Losses of associate 3.3 2.5 - - The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 26.8 18.1 - - International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial Operating cash flows 446.0 417.0 179.8 106.8 statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial Increase in inventories 48.5 48.5 - - statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial Increase decrease in receivables 107.7 83.6 19.3 41.6 statements are set out below.
Basis of preparation Increase decrease in payables 48.9 61.5 31.2 63.8 The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost Revenue recognition Payments on exceptional items 3.8 4.6 0.4 - basis, except that derivative financial instruments, available for Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the sale investments, contingent consideration arising from business customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed Pension payments in excess of the charge to profits 24.7 22.6 - - combinations and certain borrowings are stated at their fair value.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration Cash generated from operations 310.2 319.2 128.9 212.2 The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its goods and services provided in the normal course of business, Interest paid 15.2 21.0 12.9 21.9 subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date net of discounts and value added tax.
For the Parent Company, Income taxes paid 49.9 59.2 - - control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is revenue comprises management charges receivable and dividend achieved where the Company: income received.
Net cash from operating activities 245.1 239.0 116.0 190.3 has the power over the investee: Cash flows from investing activities Exceptional items is exposed or has rights to a variable return from the Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that Interest received 0.2 0.5 0.5 - involvement with the investee: and by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual in nature Proceeds on disposal of property, plant, equipment and investments 30.8 16.9 - - or incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
disclosed separately on the face of the financial statements or in Development of computer software 14.0 - - - the notes in the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are Purchases of property, plant and equipment 150.9 107.2 0.1 0.1 has a proper understanding of the Groups financial performance included in the consolidated income statement from the effective and that there is comparability of financial performance Interest in associate 2.1 2.9 1.6 1.3 date of acquisition.
Investments in subsidiaries - - 16.7 13.2 The following new and revised Standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired note 29 15.7 9.3 - - had any significant impacts on the amounts reported in these for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited Net cash used in investing activities 151.7 102.0 14.7 14.6 financial statements: to, significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or impairments of current and non-current assets, the costs of Financing activities Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS 27 Investment entities acquiring and integrating businesses, gains or losses on disposals Net proceeds from the issue of share capital 14.3 13.9 14.3 13.9 of businesses and investments, re-measurement gains or losses Amendments to IAS 36 Reco verable Amount Disclosure for arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial Non-Financial Assets Net movement in finance lease liabilities 2.5 2.1 - - instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved At the date of the approval of these financial statements, the Bond issue costs 2.6 - 2.6 - or is not effective and pension scheme curtailment gains and the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet effect of changes in corporation tax rates on deferred tax balances.
Decrease in loans and liabilities to pension scheme 243.0 143.0 240.0 190.6 been applied in these financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: Increase in sterling bond 250.0 - 250.0 - Supplier arrangements Rebate, manufacturer funded customer contract support and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Dividends paid 81.1 65.1 81.1 65.1 similar promotional arrangements Supplier Arrangements are a IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Net cash from financing activities 64.9 196.3 59.4 241.8 common component of trading agreements in the building product supply industry.
As part of its on-going business activities, the Improvements to IFRSs minor amendments Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 28.5 59.3 41.9 66.1 Travis Perkins group has entered into such arrangements with a The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 79.8 139.1 7.3 73.4 significant number of its goods for resale suppliers.
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year note 19 108.3 79.8 49.2 7.3 Amounts due in respect of Supplier Arrangements are not the financial statements of the Group.
recognised in the income statement until all performance The Directors are currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts conditions have been met and the goods have been sold to third and projections show that the Group should be able to operate party customers.
within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
138 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 139 SECTION HEAD FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Finance charges associated with arranging non-equity funding are Supplier rebates received and receivable in respect of goods Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 under UK GAAP has Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in recognised in the income statement over the life of the facility.
which have been sold to the Groups customers are deducted from not been reinstated and would not be included in determining any the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement cost of sales in the income statement.
Where goods on which subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
rebate has been earned remain in inventory at the year-end, an Liabilities for contingent consideration are classified as fair value into a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement on appropriate rebate deduction is made from the gross balance through profit and loss.
a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Trade payables sheet carrying value of that inventory.
The rebate deduction is Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
only released to the income statement when the goods are Intangible assets Impairment of tangible and intangible assets ultimately sold.
Foreign currencies Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets Customer contract support arrangements, which are supplier Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value with a definite useful life are reviewed at each balance sheet date specific, enable a supplier to elicit Travis Perkins in the sale of rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such certain products or product ranges to particular customers.
are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated At the balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets and Through this Travis Perkins can sell goods to its customer at a over a maximum of 20 years except where they are considered and compared to its carrying value.
Where the asset does not liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the competitive contract price benefiting from support from a given to have an indefinite useful life.
In the latter instance, they are generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
All contract support receipts received and receivable are reviewed annually for impairment.
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
deducted from cost of sales when the sale to the third party has unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount been completed.
Investment properties of an asset is the greater of its fair value less disposal cost and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for its value in use the present value of the future cash flows that At the year-end the balance sheet includes a balance representing The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its the asset is expected to generate.
In determining value in use the capital appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less unpaid amounts receivable from suppliers.
exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from present value of future cash flows is discounted using a pre tax depreciation.
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual financing activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time Other promotional arrangements are not significant.
value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, up to financial instruments.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the value of money in relation to the period of the investment and the a maximum of 50 years.
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for risks specific to the asset concerned.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the Where the Group has rebate agreements with its customers, Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the value of customer rebates paid or payable, calculated in Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The provision for the impairment loss is established with a charge the lease.
accordance with the agreements in place, is deducted from fair value of derivative financial instruments is the estimated being made to the income statement.
When the reasons for turnover in the year in which the rebate is earned.
amount the Group would receive or pay to terminate the a write down no longer exist the write down is reversed in the Property, plant and equipment derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current income statement up to the net book value that the relevant Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost Business combinations and goodwill interest and exchange rates and the current creditworthiness of asset would have had if it had not been written down and if it had less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition the counterparties.
Assets are depreciated to their estimated residual value on a method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the are designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of the offer became unconditional.
The acquirees identifiable assets, recoverable amount is estimated at each annual balance Buildings - 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the cash flows, are recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for sheet date.
building or the life of the lease.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value Plant and equipment - 4 to 10 years.
at the acquisition date except that: Inventories For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the of a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair Computer software - 3 to 10 years.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to lower of average weighted cost and net realisable value.
Cost value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured Freehold land is not depreciated.
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour entry in the income statement.
in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their Benefits respectively: For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds Financial instruments separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups net of expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in the Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet closely related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised previously held interest in the acquired entity are remeasured to balance sheet and is recognised in the income statement.
Where when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of gains or losses being reported in the income statement.
fair value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, appropriate, the attributable revaluation reserve remaining in the instrument.
if any, is recognised in the income statement.
respect of properties revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current transferred directly to reserves.
asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of Trade receivables relationship is more than 12 months, otherwise they are classified acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost, which is Leases as current.
net assets including intangible assets of a business or a subsidiary carrying amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the at the date of acquisition.
All material intangible fixed assets Allowances for the estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as effective risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are obtained on acquisition have been recognised separately in the the income statement when the receivable is considered to hedges are marked-to-market at the balance sheet date, with any capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the financial statements.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and be uncollectible.
gains or losses being taken through the income statement.
leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, Impairment of financial assets Financial assets and financial liabilities charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant then at least annually, is reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of Financial assets are classified into the following specified rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not the Directors, the likelihood of full recovery is diminished by either categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased subsequently reversed, as such, goodwill is stated in the balance events or change of circumstance.
FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment in value.
The classification depends on the nature and life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains Bank and other borrowings purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other initial recognition.
IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP classified as operating leases.
loans are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
carrying value subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
140 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 141
