If you are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION responsibility to ensure that you may validly receive documents OTHER SHAREHOLDER In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys and communications electronically either generally or in relation Articles of Association, the Company is allowed to use its to any particular document or communication without the website to publish statutory documents and communications to Company being required to comply with any governmental or INFORMATION shareholders, such as the Annual Report and Accounts and the regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
The Company Notice of the AGM.
You can therefore view or download a copy of may deny electronic access to documents and communications the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES INTERNET relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those going to our website at http: www.
co. uk Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information shareholders who it believes are resident in jurisdictions where it see section called Investor Relations.
If you received a hard copy Secretary at the Companys registered office: Lodge Way House, about the Group and its principal brands, products and services at is advised that to provide such access would or may be a breach of this report in the post then you will not have consented to this Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, Northampton, NN5 7UG the following addresses: of any legal or regulatory requirements.
Should you now wish to consent to this telephone 01604 752424, email cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk method of publication, you should contact Capita Asset Services, 4.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents to or to the Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services at www.
co. uk Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham you is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU www.
By reducing the number of The Company is not responsible for any failure in transmission telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus www.
com communications sent by post, it will not only result in cost savings for reasons beyond its control any more than it is for postal network extras: lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, www.
co. uk to the Company but also reduce the impact that the unnecessary failures.
In the event of the Company becoming aware that an Monday - Friday: email shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk printing and distribution of reports has on the environment.
electronic communication to you has not been successfully www.
co. uk Please note that if you consent to website publication, you will transmitted, a further two attempts will be made.
co. uk continue to be notified each time that the Company places a transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant FINANCIAL DIARY www.
co. uk statutory communication on the website.
This notification will be notification will be posted to your registered address.
However, you may also choose to receive 5.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and your Record date 1 May 2015 www.
co. uk notifications by e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
relevant contact address details will stand until such time as the Annual General Meeting 28 May 2015 www.
co. uk If you wish to receive these notifications by e-mail, you should Company receives alternative instructions from you by e-mail or Payment of final dividend 1 June 2015 www.
co. uk register on the Share Portal at www.
Announcement of 2015 interim results 4 August 2015 www.
co. uk and follow the instructions see Registrars On-Line Service Interim Management Statement 22 October 2015 www.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no http: hire.
co. uk hire Announcement of 2015 annual results 25 February 2016 computer viruses are present in any electronic communication it www.
co. uk transmits, but the Company shall not be responsible for any loss Please telephone Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 www.
co. uk or damage arising from the opening or use of any e-mail within the UK, calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CATERING www.
co. uk or attachments sent by the Company or on its behalf.
lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday - Friday or ARRANGEMENTS http: hire.
co. uk hire The Company recommends that shareholders subject all 44 20 8639 3399 Non-UK if you have any queries.
com messages to computer virus checking procedures.
It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light www.
co. uk Any electronic communication received by or on behalf of the luncheon for shareholders following the AGM, and a buffet Notes www.
co. uk Company, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form luncheon will be available.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications www.
co. uk that is found to contain any computer virus will not be accepted.
via the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a www.
co. uk computer with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader 7.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to www.
The Adobe Acrobat reader software may be obtained via revert to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it www.
co. uk the website free of charge.
considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the www.
co. uk documents and communications on the website electronically, www.
co. uk it will be your responsibility to notify our registrars, Capita Asset www.
co. uk Services, of any subsequent change in your e-mail address or www.
co. uk other contact details.
co. uk investor relations site www.
co. uk These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line through Trademate, with the exception of the Wickes, Tile Giant and Toolstation sites which allow on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
Most of the sites provide information about branch locations and allow access to prices and the product range available.
Customers are also able to construct their own price quotation that includes any special price arrangements that have been negotiated with the Group.
192 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 193 OTHER INFORMATION Other shareholder information continued Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service CAPITA REGISTRARS which is available by logging on to www.
com or The Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services Capita, telephoning 0871 664 0346 calls cost 10p per minute plus provide a number of services that, as a shareholder, might be network extras: lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, useful to you: Monday Friday.
For the on-line service, Capitas commission Reg istrars On-Line Service rates are 1.25% of the value of the deal minimum 30.00, By logging onto www.
com and following maximum 150.00 for certificated holdings, 1.00% of the the prompts, shareholders can view and amend various details value of the deal minimum 21.00, maximum 125.00 for on their account.
Please note that you will need to register to uncertificated holdings and for the telephone service, Capitas use this service for which purpose you will require your unique commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate, 40.00 certificated 28.50 uncertificated, maximum 195 proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
certificated 175.00 uncertificated : all charges include a 3.50 Compliance charge.
The maximum online transaction value is Dividend Re-In vestment Plan DRIP 25,000 and a 1 Panel for Takeovers and Mergers This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy PTM levy is applied to all transactions over 10,000.
Share further shares in Travis Perkins.
For any shareholders who wish purchases are also subject to SDRT.
to re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing service which Asset Services.
Under this facility, cash dividends are used to is available by telephoning 44 131 240 0508 and quoting purchase additional shares.
Shares are bought on the dividend reference Travis Perkins Dial and Deal.
Stocktrades commission payment date at the then current market price.
Any cash left will be 0.5%, to deals up to the value of 10,000 and 0.2% on over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be the excess thereafter, subject to minimum of 17.50.
Please note carried forward and held without interest, in a Client Money bank that UK share purchases will be subject to 0.5% stamp duty.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal There will also be a PTM levy of 1 for single trades in excess of by clicking on reinvest your dividends and following the 10,000.
When buying shares you will be required to pay for your on screen instructions.
Any shareholder requiring further transaction at the time of the deal by debit card, and you should information should contact Capita on 0871 664 0381 ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras from debit card account to pay for the shares in full.
within the UK : lines are open from 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday Friday.
E-mail SHARE FRAUD - WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS shares@capita.
In recent years, share fraud has been increasing, with shareholders Please note that this facility is only available to shareholders with receiving unsolicited correspondence concerning investment an address in the UK or EEA.
The value of shares and income matters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to from them can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the lure investors into scams: offering to sell shares that turn out to amount of money you invest.
be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price Dup licate Share Register Accounts in return for an upfront payment.
Sometimes these individuals If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be imply that they represent Travis Perkins, but in fact they have no that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our connection with the Company and have no authority to claim or register of members.
If that was not your intention you might imply that they are.
consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the Financial Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at Over seas Shareholders www.
uk scams, where you can also find out more about Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with investment scams.
a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment directly into your local bank account, or alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on manage your account and Change your dividend details and following the on screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
Further details are available from Capita Asset Services: by telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES There are two share dealing services that you may wish to use to buy or sell shares in Travis Perkins but alternatively there are many other options that you could use :- Designed by Travis Perkins Plc, Design Print & Distribution 194 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Travis Perkins plc, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG Telephone 01604 752 424 www.
