STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 115 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 1.
Accounting policies 30 September Year ended The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated 2013 Impact of 30 September as previously IAS 19 2013 financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation reported revised restated of the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended Pence Pence Pence 30 September 2013, except for the adoption of the following new and Basic earnings per share 5.4 0.8 4.6 amended International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS that are Diluted earnings per share 5.4 0.8 4.6 applicable to the Group for the year ended 30 September 2014: Underlying earnings per share 30.8 0.7 30.1 Diluted underlying earnings per share 29.6 0.7 28.9 IAS 19 revised Employee benefits IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Had IAS 19 not been revised, for the year ending 30 September 2014, Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets profit after tax would have been 17m higher, resulting from increased and financial liabilities financial income, financial expenses and taxation of 80m, 58m and IASBs Annual improvements project 2011 5m respectively.
Basic and diluted earnings per share would have been 1.5p and 1.3p higher respectively.
The Group has also adopted the following amendments to current IFRSs early: A Statement of compliance Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets in respect of fair The consolidated financial statements for the year ended value disclosures 30 September 2014 have been prepared and approved by the Directors Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and measurement in respect of novation of derivatives and continuation IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union Adopted of hedge accounting IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements were approved on The amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on deferred tax is not currently 3 December 2014. applicable to the Group as it has no investment properties measured at fair value.
B Basis of preparation With the exception of the impact following the revision to IAS 19, which The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost is disclosed below, these new and amended standards have had no basis other than derivative financial instruments, financial instruments significant impact on the consolidated results or financial position and held for trading and financial instruments classified as available for sale, therefore no restatement of the prior years equity or profit has been which are stated at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated presented.
Additional disclosures in respect of the amendments to at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 7 are provided within these consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements are presented in the Groups where applicable.
presentation currency of Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items iAS 19 revised employee benefits included in the consolidated financial statements of each entity are The revision to IAS 19 Employee benefits makes significant changes to measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense which the entity operates.
and termination benefits and enhances the disclosures for all employee i Parent company benefits.
The most significant impact for the Group is that interest TUI Travel PLC the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled expense is now calculated by applying the discount rate to the net in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This replaces the interest cost on the defined The Registered Office of the Company is TUI Travel House, Crawley benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets.
Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 9QL.
The revised standard has retrospective application and consequently the The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial relevant charges or income in the consolidated income statement and statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the financial ii Underlying measures of profits and losses year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated.
The impact on The Group believes that underlying operating profit, underlying profit opening retained earnings or net assets has not been dealt with as a before tax and underlying earnings per share provide additional prior year adjustment on the grounds of materiality.
guidance to statutory measures to help understand the underlying The impact on the results for the year ending 30 September 2013 was performance of the business during the financial year.
The term as follows: underlying is not defined under IFRS.
It is a measure that is used by Year ended management to assess the underlying performance of the business 30 September Year ended internally and is not intended to be a substitute measure for adopted 2013 Impact of 30 September as previously IAS 19 2013 IFRS GAAP measures.
The Group defines these underlying measures reported revised restated as follows: m m m Financial income 86 67 19 Underlying operating profit is operating profit from continuing Financial expenses 202 55 147 operations stated before separately disclosed items, acquisition Net financial expenses 116 12 128 related expenses, impairment of goodwill and financial assets and Profit before tax 181 12 169 interest and taxation on the Groups share of the results of joint Taxation charge 118 3 115 ventures and associates.
Profit for the year 63 9 54 Underlying profit before tax is profit from continuing operations before Other comprehensive loss 49 9 40 taxation, acquisition related expenses, impairment of goodwill and financial assets, interest and taxation of joint ventures and associates and separately disclosed items included within the operating result.
116 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued covenant limits at the date of the balance sheet.
Accounting policies continued the Board, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic Underlying earnings used in the calculation of underlying earnings per conditions, show continued compliance with these covenants.
For both share is profit after tax from continuing operations excluding acquisition covenants, earnings are calculated on an underlying basis as described related expenses, impairment of goodwill and financial assets and in Note 1 B ii.
On the basis of its forecasts, both base case and separately disclosed items included within the operating result.
adjusted as described above, and available facilities, the Board has For the purpose of this calculation, an underlying tax charge is used concluded that the going concern basis of preparation continues to which excludes the tax effects of separately disclosed items, acquisition be appropriate.
related expenses, goodwill and financial asset impairment charges and This is the case both in the scenario that the merger with TUI AG does separately disclosed tax items.
not proceed, which is considered unlikely, and the scenario once the It should be noted that the definitions of underlying items being used merger is completed, as TUI AG has agreed to provide facilities to enable, in these consolidated financial statements are those used by the Group based on current expectations, TUI Travel PLC and its subsidiaries to and may not be comparable with the term underlying as defined by continue operations for the foreseeable future.
other companies both within the same sector or elsewhere.
c Basis of consolidation Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying profit The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and before tax its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity accounts Year ended for the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Parent year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 Company financial statements present information about the Company 2014 restated as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Accounting policies of Note m m subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are amended where necessary Underlying operating profit 3 612 589 to be consistent with those adopted by the Group.
Where audited Net underlying financial expenses 5 137 128 financial statements are not coterminous with those of the Group, the Underlying profit before tax 475 461 financial information is derived from the last audited accounts available and unaudited management accounts for the period up to the Groups iii Separately disclosed items balance sheet date.
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or i Subsidiaries incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Such items are included within the income statement the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial caption to which they relate Note 4. and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently iv Business and financial review exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial its future development, performance and position, are set out in the information from the date that control commences until the date that Business and financial review section.
In addition, Notes 26 and 34 set control ceases.
out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risks, financial instruments and hedging activities as ii Joint ventures and associates well as its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities whose activities the Group has the power to control jointly, established by contractual agreement.
v Funding and liquidity Associates are those entities in which the Group has the ability to The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and exercise significant influence, but not control, over the financial and liquidity position.
At 30 September 2014, the main sources of operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the debt funding included: Groups share of the total recognised income and expense and changes a total of 1,225m bank revolving credit facilities which mature in equity of joint ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, in June 2018: from the date that joint control or significant influence respectively 175m of bonding and letter of credit facilities which mature commences until the date that it ceases.
Associates and joint ventures in June 2018: are recorded at cost, adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the 400m convertible bond due April 2017: Groups share of net assets of the entity including goodwill net of accumulated impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses 150m bank syndicated facility which matures in April 2016 and exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate, the which is only available in the event of a requirement to redeem carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses the Groups convertible bond: and is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal 382m of drawn finance lease obligations with repayments or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint up to June 2024. venture or associate.
The ratio of earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation iii non-controlling interests and operating lease rentals EBITDAR to fixed charges being the In the consolidated balance sheet, the share of net assets attributable aggregate amount of interest and any other finance charges in respect to non-controlling interests is disclosed as a separate component of borrowings and including all payments under operating leases and of equity after share capital and reserves.
The consolidated income the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation statement discloses the amount of the result for the year attributable and amortisation EBITDA, which the Board believes to be the most to non-controlling interests and which is excluded from earnings per useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the share calculations.
main basis for the Groups credit facility covenants, are well within the STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 117 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Where the Group has a written put option in respect of a non-controlling ii Foreign operations interest and has an unavoidable obligation to purchase the shareholding, The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and the obligation is recorded as a financial liability at fair value, rather than fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated from being reported as a separate component of equity.
Changes to the fair functional currency to Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the value of the financial liability are recorded at each period end in the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of overseas operations income statement within financial income or financial expenses.
are translated from functional currency at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign On purchase or sale of a non-controlling interest held in a Group exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other subsidiary, the Group recognises increases or decreases in the value of comprehensive income through the translation reserve.
its interest directly in equity providing there is no overall change in control.
As such, these transactions do not result in goodwill or gains and Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from monetary items losses being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement control is lost, any remaining interest in equity is remeasured to fair value of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are and a gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
iv transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or income and expenses iii net investment in foreign operations arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are to the extent that the hedge is effective and are presented within equity eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains but only to the extent in the translation reserve.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, that there is no evidence of impairment.
such differences are recognised in profit or loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed, the relevant amount in the translation v Acquisition in stages reserve is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss Where the Group gains control of a subsidiary undertaking through on disposal.
a step acquisition, the existing interest owned is remeasured at fair value with the difference between fair value and book value being recognised e Financial instruments in the income statement.
The accounting impact of changes in share i Financial assets ownership which do not affect control is accounted for directly in equity.
Financial assets are either classified as loans and receivables, available for sale financial assets, or financial assets at fair value through profit vi Acquisition related expenses or loss.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade Acquisition related expenses comprise amortisation of business receivables, loans, trade and other investments including financial combination intangibles, other acquisition and merger related expenses deposits within the Groups control, derivative financial instruments and and remuneration for post-combination services.
Directly attributable other receivables, but exclude financial deposits outside the Groups acquisition costs are expensed in the consolidated income statement control, prepayments and taxes.
The Group determines the classification as incurred.
of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognised vii contingent consideration initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the Contingent consideration is accounted for at fair value on the acquisition case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly date with subsequent changes in the fair value being recognised in the attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of income statement.
Contingent consideration dependent upon continuing financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: service of an employee is charged to the income statement over the Loans and receivables related service period within acquisition related expenses Note 13 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or and is included within operating profit.
Contingent consideration is determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such discounted to present value where the time value of money is material.
assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method D Foreign currency if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised i Foreign currency transactions in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate as well as through the amortisation process.
This category of financial approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the assets includes trade and other receivables.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Available for sale financial assets in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial functional currency spot rate ruling at the reporting date.
Foreign assets that are not classified as loans and receivables or financial assets exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition, available income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses of a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment recognised within other comprehensive income until the investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired, recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in other that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are comprehensive income is included in the consolidated income statement.
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Note 1 W ii describes the basis on which fair value is determined.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were determined.
118 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Convertible bonds 1.
Accounting policies continued Convertible bonds are separated into three components: liability, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss issuer call option and equity at inception.
Each component is Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at recognised separately.
fair value after initial recognition.
The gain or loss is included in the consolidated income statement.
Note 1 W describes the basis on The initial fair value of the liability component of the convertible which fair value is determined.
bond is determined using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond and is subsequently recorded at an amortised Derivatives cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished on Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The issuer call option is fair Note 1 E iii.
valued using a valuation model and is measured at each balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits The remainder of the proceeds are recognised in shareholders equity which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are in a separate convertible bond reserve.
subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components maturity of three months or less.
Where the Group operates centrally of a convertible bond based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability pooled accounts and has the intention and ability to pool account and equity components when the instruments are first recognised.
balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed.
Where the intention or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and Derivatives overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in sheet and the overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents Note 1 E iii.
for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Derecognition Where cash and cash equivalent balances are not available for use by The Group derecognises a financial liability when the contractual the Group, for example to meet regulatory requirements, this fact is obligations to pay the contractual cash flows on the financial liability disclosed and the balances are excluded from available net debt.
are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Derecognition For convertible bonds, derecognition occurs on the date on which an The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual irrevocable conversion notice to convert the bond to ordinary shares rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the is received from the bond holder.
The carrying value of the bond at rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset the date of derecognition is extinguished and replaced by the nominal in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards value of the ordinary share capital being issued with the balance being of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest recognised in the share premium account, notwithstanding that the in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the relevant ordinary shares may not have been legally issued on the date Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
No gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement on conversion.
ii Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are either classified as financial liabilities measured at iii Derivative financial instruments amortised cost, or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Financial liabilities include trade and other payables excluding tax to foreign exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks arising from and social security and deferred income, accruals, finance debt and operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities are instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not recognised initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
in the case of financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value.
For interestinstrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivatives not received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial designated as hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the recognition, financial liabilities other than those at fair value through income statement against the opposite line of income or expense.
profit or loss are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the The accounting policy for derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into is included in Note 1 F. account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in interest, other revenues and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 119 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION iv Share capital When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share awards are revokes designation of the hedge relationship, hedge accounting is recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
If the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in In respect of ordinary shares being issued following the receipt of an equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the irrevocable conversion notice from holders of the convertible bonds, transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to these are considered to be fully paid on the date of the extinguishment take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity of the liability and included within the share capital notwithstanding that is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
they may not have been legally issued on the date of derecognition.
G Revenue F hedge accounting Revenue represents the aggregate amount earned from inclusive tours, The Group designates certain derivatives as cash flow hedges of highly scheduled and charter flying, provision of incoming agency destination probable forecast transactions.
services, travel agency and intermediary commission received and other On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s, Revenue excludes intra-group transactions and is stated after the including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking deduction of trade discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is reported gross the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used of fixed charges which are a liability of the tour operator or airline.
to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group These include Air Passenger Duty and other per passenger charges makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship and levies, including the ATOL Protection Contribution in the UK.
as well as on an ongoing basis, as to whether the hedging instruments i Revenue recognition are expected to be highly effective in hedging cash flows during the Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement when period for which the hedge is designated and whether the actual the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred results of each hedge are within a range of 80-125%.
The transaction to the buyer.
Travel agency and intermediary commissions and other being hedged should be highly probable to occur and should present revenues received from the sale of third party product are recognised an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect when they are earned, typically on receipt of final payment.
in respect of our own holidays and services is recognised on the date Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the of departure.
Revenue from individual travel modules directly booked variability in cash flows arising from a recognised asset or liability, or by the customer with airlines, hotels and incoming agencies is recognised a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any fair when the customer departs or uses the respective service.
Revenue value gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised from the sale of travel insurance is recognised at the point of sale.
directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding is recognised immediately within the consolidated income statement.
recovery of the consideration due or associated costs.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition ii client monies received in advance deferred income of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated Client monies received at the balance sheet date relating to holidays cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and is commencing and flights departing after the year end are deferred included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial and included within trade and other payables.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, iii Measurement of revenue the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity Where the Group acts as principal, revenue is stated at the contractual are reclassified into the consolidated income statement in the same value of services provided.
period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed Where the Group acts as an agent between the service provider and the affects profit or loss.
end customer, revenue is presented on a net basis as the difference For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two between the sales price to the customer and the cost of the services paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from purchased and not the total transaction sales value.
Businesses are equity and recognised in the consolidated income statement in the identified as intermediaries dependent on a number of criteria, same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction principally including the control exercised over the provision of service, affects the consolidated income statement.
inventory risk and customer credit risk.
Prospective hedge testing is performed at the inception of the hedge iv Aircraft lease income relationship and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through Operating lease rental income is recognised in operating income comparison of the critical terms of the hedged forecast transaction as earned, on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
and the hedging instrument using regression analysis.
Retrospective hedge testing is performed at each reporting date principally using a dollar offset analysis, comparing the cumulative changes in the fair values of the forecast hedged transaction and the hedging instrument.
120 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Share-based payment transactions 1.
Accounting policies continued The Groups share award programmes allow certain Group employees h expenses to acquire shares of the Company.
These shares are awarded by the i Operating lease payments Company.
For equity-settled transactions, the fair value of services Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the is measured by the fair value of the shares at the time awarded and consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the consolidated in equity.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over employees become entitled to the awards.
For cash-settled transactions, the resulting liability for the Group is ii Finance lease payments charged to expenses at its fair value as at the date of the performance Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge of the service by the beneficiary.
Until payment of this liability, the and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is fair value of the liability is remeasured at every reporting date and allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a all changes are included in the consolidated income statement.
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
For both types of share-based payment transactions, the fair value iii Marketing and other direct sales costs of the awards is measured using option valuation models, taking into Marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including those account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made, related to the production of brochures, are expensed when the benefit including market performance conditions and the impact of non-vesting of the goods or services is made available to the Group.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect brochure and advertising costs are expensed to the consolidated the actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture income statement when the Groups suppliers have delivered the is due only to market based performance conditions not meeting the relevant material.
i employee benefits iv Own shares held by the employee Benefit trust i Defined contribution plans Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust the Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans Trust are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement In particular, the Trusts purchase of shares in the Company is debited as incurred.
directly in equity to retained earnings accumulated losses.
ii Defined benefit plans v Short-term benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans Short-term employee benefits are measured on an undiscounted basis is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of and are expensed as the related service is provided.
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service J Financial income and expenses in current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine Financial income comprises interest income on cash and cash its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted in equivalents invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in calculating the overall net liability.
The liability discount rate is the yield profit or loss, using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds denominated in gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
the currency of, and having the same maturity dates approximating to, the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
of the discount on provisions and changes in the fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
All borrowing costs Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan which are under the control of the Group.
K taxation When the benefits of a plan are amended, the portion of the Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised increase decrease in benefit relating to past services by employees in the consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates is recognised as an expense income in the consolidated income to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, statement immediately.
in which case the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income, or directly in equity, as appropriate.
Remeasurements of the net defined pension liability, including actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive i current tax income.
Either monthly or annual contributions are made to funded Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for schemes.
The current service cost is included in the consolidated income the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement as a personnel expense.
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
The interest charge on the net retirement benefit obligation is calculated by applying the applicable discount rate to the net retirement benefit obligations at the beginning of the financial year, taking account of any changes in the net retirement benefit obligation during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 121 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ii Deferred tax O intangible assets Deferred tax is provided or recognised using the balance sheet liability i Goodwill method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill represents the differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill difference between the fair value of consideration paid or payable and not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination: and liabilities acquired.
Identifiable intangibles, such as brands and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that customer relationships, are those which can be sold separately or they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount which arise from contractual or legal rights regardless of whether of deferred tax asset recognised is based on the expected manner those rights are separable, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
liabilities, using the tax rate at which the asset or liability is expected to Goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units CGUs expected reverse in future periods, based on tax laws enacted or substantively to benefit from the business combination and is not amortised but enacted at the balance sheet date.
Impairment testing is based on assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally grouped at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax management purposes.
In respect of joint ventures and associates, the liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the income taxes levied by the same tax authority on either the taxable investment in the joint venture or associate.
entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
If, at the balances on a net basis.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the balance sheet date, the amounts of fair values of the acquirees the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available identifiable assets and liabilities can only be established provisionally, against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced then these values are used.
Any adjustments to these values are taken to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit as adjustments to goodwill and are recorded within 12 months of the will be realised.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised in the income statement upon acquisition.
L Dividends Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as ii computer software, software in development and other a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the intangible assets dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and Computer software consists of all software that is not an integral part are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Interim dividends are of the related computer hardware and is stated at cost less accumulated recognised when paid.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these amortisation and impairment losses.
criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes M earnings per share are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average it will be available for use: number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive management intends to complete the software product and use potential ordinary shares.
EPS measures for continuing operations or sell it: have been presented in accordance with IAS 33.
The Group also presents there is an ability to use or sell the software product: a basic and diluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate earnings as defined in Note 1 B ii above.
Further details of the EPS probable future economic benefits: calculation are presented in Note 33. adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the n investments development and to use or sell the software product are available: and Unless designated at fair value through profit and loss, trade investments the expenditure attributable to the software product during its are classified as available for sale assets and are included under development can be reliably measured.
They are recorded at fair value with movements in value taken to other comprehensive income.
Any impairment to value Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software is recorded in the income statement.
Short-term investments in debt product include the software development employee costs and an and equity securities which are held for trading are classified as current appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Other development assets and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an recognised in the income statement.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Licences and order books assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, as detailed in Note 1 W i. Licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
122 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is 1.
Accounting policies continued capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled iii Brands and customer relationships major overhaul.
Brands and contractual customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
The depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual values Both intangibles have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less are reassessed annually.
Revisions to useful economic lives and residual accumulated amortisation.
values are accounted for prospectively from the date of change.
iv Amortisation Freehold land, assets under construction and advance payments Amortisation is charged to the consolidated income statement on including capitalised borrowing costs for future aircraft are not a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of each depreciated.
Upon delivery of the aircraft, advance payments for type of intangible asset as follows: aircraft that are subsequently owned are re-categorised to aircraft assets and depreciation is commenced.
Advance payments for aircraft Computer software 3-10 years that are sold and leased back on delivery under an operating lease Brands 15-20 years are accounted for as a disposal.
Where the aircraft is leased back on Order book at date of acquisition Over the period until travel occurs a finance lease, as well as the disposal of the advance payment, an Customer relationships Over the period during which value will addition to aircraft is recorded at an amount equal to the lower of be obtained by the Group up to 15 years fair value of the aircraft and the present value of the minimum lease Licences Over the term of licence payments at the inception of the lease.
Software in development is not amortised.
Upon completion of iv Borrowing costs development and bringing the software into use, the costs are In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group re-categorised into computer software and amortisation commences.
capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost P Property, plant and equipment of that asset.
The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect i Owned assets to pre-delivery payments relating to aircraft.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes the v Sale and leaseback transactions original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing When a sale and leaseback results in a finance leaseback, any gain the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Where significant on the sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term.
parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful Any loss on the sale is immediately recognised in the profit and loss lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and account if there is evidence that the assets carrying value exceeds equipment.
Fair value adjustments are made in respect of property, the fair value.
plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination, but If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, any gain is recognised are not subsequently remeasured to fair value.
immediately if the sale and leaseback terms are demonstrably at fair ii Leased assets value.
Otherwise, the sale and leaseback is accounted for as follows: Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and If the sale price is below fair value, the gain or loss is recognised rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets immediately, other than to the extent that a loss is compensated for acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the by future rentals at a below-market price, then the loss is deferred lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease and amortised over the period that the asset is expected to be used.
payments at the inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation If the sale price is above fair value, any gain is deferred and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted for as set out in and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount iii Depreciation of the asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference Depreciation is charged to the consolidated income statement on is recognised immediately as a loss on the sale.
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold land is q impairments not depreciated.
The useful economic lives are as follows: i Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine Freehold properties Up to 50 years whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired or whenever Short leasehold improvements Lease period or useful events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount economic life if shorter may not be recoverable.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired Owned aircraft Up to 18 years if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a Finance leased aircraft and equipment Lease period or useful negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
economic life if shorter Aircraft spares 12 years An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset is calculated as the Cruise ships 40 years difference between its carrying amount and its recoverable amount.
Yachts 5-15 years An impairment loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset Motor boats 15-24 years is calculated by reference to its fair value.
The recoverable amount Computer equipment including 3-5 years of the Groups receivables which are carried at amortised cost is retail computer equipment calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, Retail fixtures and fittings Up to 10 years discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective Other assets Up to 7 years interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 123 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual R inventories basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
that share similar credit risk characteristics.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated costs incurred until the sale and the estimated variable costs required All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
All inventories are written down individually where the net of loans to joint ventures and associates, including losses recognised realisable value of inventories is lower than their carrying amounts.
when the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the payments on behalf of a joint venture or associate, are recognised weighted average cost formula.
Spare parts and servicing equipment within the share of the result of joint ventures and associates and are classified as property, plant and equipment rather than inventory included within operating profit.
Any cumulative loss in respect of when they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment, which an available for sale financial asset previously recognised in equity is includes the expectation that they will be used for more than one recycled to profit or loss.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal financial year.
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss can be recognised.
S Provisions A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the For financial assets measured at amortised cost and available for sale Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event: financial assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required profit or loss.
For available for sale financial assets that are equity to settle the obligation: and the outflow of economic benefits can be securities, the reversal is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined ii non-financial assets by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that The carrying amount of the Groups non-financial assets, other than reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet the risks specific to the liability.
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
i Maintenance provision for leased aircraft If such an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
To reflect the legal obligations placed upon the Group under the terms For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance of certain operating leases, provision is made for the maintenance, sheet date.
overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other components.
The provision is based on the present An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of value of the anticipated external costs of the next maintenance an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable event calculated by reference to costs experienced and published amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and fair manufacturers data.
The charge to the consolidated income statement value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash over time and over a fleet.
The unwinding of discounted values is inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other charged to the consolidated income statement as a financial expense.
assets or groups of assets.
The largest unit to which goodwill is ii Restructuring provision allocated is an operating segment level as defined in IFRS 8 before A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved applying aggregation criteria.
Note 3 contains further details of the a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either Groups operating segments.
has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses are not provided for.
recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying iii Onerous contracts amount of goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An benefits to be derived by the Group from the contract are lower than impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, the change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets that contract.
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
124 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Brands are calculated by reference to the royalty rate that could be 1.
Accounting policies continued supported by the individual business unit profit margin, weighted for t Related parties the strength of the brand acquired.
Appropriate tax and discount rates For the purpose of these consolidated financial statements, parties are also applied to the valuation.
Customer relationships are valued are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, using the excess earnings methodology, which calculates the present directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence value of the earnings the asset generates, net of a reasonable return over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, on other assets also contributing to that stream of earnings.
Inputs to or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or the excess earnings methodology include applicable forecast sales to significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or entities.
which the customer relationship contribute, the deduction of returns on all other assets and appropriate discount and tax rates.
U Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of an entity that: ii investments in equity and debt securities The fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues available for sale financial assets is determined by reference to their and incur expenses including revenues and expenses relating quoted closing bid price at the reporting date, where available.
If there to transactions with other components of the same entity : is no market price available, the fair value is calculated based on other whose operating results and financial position are regularly valuation techniques, including assessments of future cash flows, reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions estimated selling price and other available information.
The fair value about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its of held to maturity investments is determined on initial recognition performance: and and thereafter for disclosure purposes only.
for which discrete financial information is available.
iii trade and other receivables As described in Note 3, all underlying operating items are allocated Trade receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently to the segments underlying profit except central costs and net recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method financial expenses.
as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is v Use of estimates and judgements objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts The preparation of financial statements requires management to make due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
iv trade payables Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Trade payables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Details of critical judgements, significant estimates and assumptions are disclosed v Derivatives in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The key The fair value of foreign currency contracts, fuel forward contracts and accounting estimates and judgements are described in Note 2. option contracts is their forward market price at the balance sheet date, based on external valuations or internal valuations using market data.
W Determination of fair values vi non-derivative financial liabilities A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial assets based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, and liabilities.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
For or disclosure purposes based on the following methods.
When applicable, finance leases, the market rate of interest is determined by reference further information about the assumptions made in determining fair to similar lease agreements.
values is disclosed in the note specific to that asset or liability.
vii Share-based payments i intangible assets The fair value of the shares awarded is measured using option The fair value of intangible assets recognised as a result of a business valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon combination, including brands, customer relationships and the customer which the awards were made.
The valuation basis is identical whether order book at the date of acquisition, is valued by reference to incomethe awards will be settled in cash or shares.
For all intangible assets, current use is determined to be the highest and best use of that asset.
Income-based methods viii cash and cash equivalents and bank loans and overdrafts estimate the future economic benefits to be derived from ownership The fair value disclosed for cash and cash equivalents and bank loans of the asset by identifying, quantifying and separating cash flows and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount.
attributable to the asset and capitalising their present value.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 125 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION X new Standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following standards, revisions and amendments to current standards The following standards are applicable to the Group and will be applied have been issued and, unless stated, are considered applicable to the to the accounting period beginning on 1 October 2014: Group in future years.
They have not been voluntarily adopted early by the Group.
This new standard Effective date: accounting replaces all guidance on control and consolidation currently within periods commencing on or after IAS 27 and SIC 12 and builds on existing principles by identifying the not yet endorsed by the eU concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit should be included within the consolidated financial statements.
plans 1 July 2014 The adoption of this new standard, including the amendment to Annual improvements 2012 1 July 2014 IFRS 10 on transition guidance, is not expected to have a material Annual improvements 2013 1 July 2014 impact on the Groups profit before tax.
Annual improvements 2014 1 July 2016 Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements on IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
This new standard establishes acquisition of an interest in a joint operation 1 January 2016 principles for financial reporting by parties to a joint arrangement.
Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and The IFRS supersedes IAS 31 and SIC-13 and is concerned principally equipment and IAS 38 Intangible assets, on with the structure of the arrangement.
Proportional consolidation depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 of joint ventures is no longer allowed, but this itself will not impact IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 the Group as all of the Groups joint ventures are currently equity IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with accounted.
The adoption of this new standard, including the customers 1 January 2017 amendment to IFRS 11 on transition guidance, is not expected IFRS 9 Financial instruments including to have a material impact on the Groups profit before tax.
amendments to IFRS 9 on hedge accounting 1 January 2018 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
This new standard The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of these and sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under the other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed two new standards, IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future and IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and replaces the disclosure accounting periods.
requirements currently found in IAS 28 Investments in associates.
The IFRS requires an entity to disclose information that enables 2.
Key accounting estimates and judgements users of financial statements to evaluate both the nature of, and The preparation of consolidated financial statements under adopted risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects IFRS requires the Directors to make estimates and judgements that of those interests on its financial position, financial performance affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure and cash flows.
The adoption of this new standard, including the of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue amendment to IFRS 12 on transition guidance, is not expected to and expenses during the year.
The Directors evaluate the estimates have an impact on the Groups results but will amend certain and judgements on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements disclosures in relation to joint ventures and associates.
are based upon historical experience and other factors they believe to IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements.
This revision be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left estimates.
The Audit Committee has reviewed managements selection, after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new development and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies IFRS 10. and estimates and the applications of these policies and estimates.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in respect of the IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in associates and joint ventures.
following areas: This revision includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
A estimates intangible assets Goodwill carrying value Amendments to IAS 32 on offsetting financial assets and liabilities.
A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill, together This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32 to with intangible assets and property, plant and equipment held across clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and the Group on a CGU basis.
In the current year, the impairment review liabilities on the balance sheet.
has been performed on a value in use basis for all CGUs, which requires IFRIC 21 Levies.
This interpretation is in respect of IAS 37 estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, clarifying they will occur and appropriate discount and growth rates.
that the obligating event that gives rise to a liability is the activity Significant estimates for revenues and costs are required in building described in the relevant legislation that triggers the payment of the financial budgets extending over a five year period, which are based levy.
Management are currently assessing the impact of adopting upon internal and macroeconomic factors such as the Groups strategy this pronouncement.
for each CGU, the brand strength within that CGU, consumer demand, supplier cost increases, oil prices and the penetration of differentiated holidays.
All inputs into the Groups long-term plans are challenged and considered by the Board until achievable and realistic budgets are approved.
126 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued B Judgements 2.
Key accounting estimates and judgements continued entry into service of new aircraft and related accounting For the purpose of the Groups impairment testing, we have then This financial year saw the Group incur further costs to enable a new considered the key inputs that can impact discounted cash flows the type of aircraft, the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, to continue to be brought most, these being in relation to the discount rate and earnings growth into service.
As part of the funding of these costs, the Group is entitled both within the long-term plans and thereafter.
This year we have to certain credits from Boeing which in some cases are taken directly to also used external advisers to assist in the calculation of the weighted the income statement and in others are used to offset against the cost average cost of capital, using more robust long-term data to reduce the of each aircraft.
These are therefore reported as sale and leaseback impact of short-term stock market volatility.
Further details, including profits in the income statement when the aircraft is delivered and the sensitivity analysis, are given in Note 10 and the accounting policy is sale and leaseback transaction is executed.
Significant judgement is set out in Note 1 Q ii.
involved in the accounting treatment of these credits, both in terms Defined benefit pension plans of recognition and classification in the income statement, since entry A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the into service costs will continue to be incurred in the next financial year present value of the Groups obligations under defined benefit pension as further Boeing 787 deliveries occur and more aircraft are brought schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial into service.
These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, Separately disclosed items especially due to the long timescales involved.
In particular, the valuation Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date.
managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial value may change significantly prior to realisation.
In reviewing the work performance.
Such items are included within the income statement of the qualified independent actuary, management was required to caption to which they relate Note 4. exercise judgement to satisfy itself that appropriate weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the actual assumptions impairment of financial assets used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in Note 6 C. In light of the ongoing challenging trading conditions in the Russian and Ukrainian source markets, together with the need for continued financial During the final quarter of the year, agreement was reached with the support from the Group, the Directors have considered the recoverability Trustees of our three main UK defined benefit pension schemes to of term loans totalling 28m made to its joint venture that were made give members not yet drawing their pension the option to exchange in previous years, the current year, and after the year end.
non-statutory future increases in their pension for a higher initial pension at retirement with only limited statutory increases to be Revenue recognition applied thereafter.
A one-off reduction in pension liabilities of 28m has In recognising revenue, judgement is required in the consideration been recognised in respect of this, with the key estimated assumption of whether each individual business acts as a principal or agent and in this calculation being the expected level of take up of the option on whether revenues should be recognised on a gross or net basis, in retirement to be 40% of those members offered.
This key assumption accordance with IAS 18.
Judgement is required when considering of 40% has been made based on the experience of the exercise the balance of risk and rewards of the sale, including delivery and undertaken during the first half of the financial year, which was with non-performance risk, credit risk, inventory risk and the ability to current as opposed to future pensioner members, considerations establish prices.
specific to the non-pensioner population and evidence from other Liabilities similar exercises.
If the assumption had been set at 5% lower or higher In accounting for provisions, judgement is required in determining than 40%, both of which are reasonably possible changes to this occurrence probability, maturity and level of risk.
Judgement and assumption, the one-off credit in respect of the reduction in pension estimation is required in determining aircraft maintenance, restructuring, liabilities would have been 3.5m lower higher.
legal including denied boarding compensation and onerous lease Derivative financial instruments provisions.
It is also required to determine the provision methodology Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and for certain provisions, considering external information on which to and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast base the amount of provision.
Due to the volume of transactions and the transactions, both at hedge inception and during the period over which materiality of period end accruals, judgement is also required in respect hedge accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial of the recognition and derecognition of airline and accommodation instruments can also involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external operating accruals.
Details of provisions made and the basis on which valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the the provisions have been calculated are disclosed in Note 22 and the carrying value of such items.
Details of sensitivity analysis are set out accounting policy is set out in Note 1 S. in Note 26 K. STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 127 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION taxation The Accommodation & Destinations A&D Sector provides a range The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from of services in destinations to tour operators, travel agents, corporate trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas jurisdictions.
clients and direct to the consumer worldwide.
A&D consists of After taking appropriate external advice, the Group makes provision for Online Accommodation comprising Accommodation Wholesaler and these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may Accommodation OTA and Inbound Services.
The A&D Sector in be incurred and which is reliably measurable.
Items relating to open total is considered as one operating segment, in line with internal areas often require significant judgement, including the probability, management reporting.
timing and size of any amounts that may become payable.
Judgements The Emerging Markets Sector is a growing portfolio of travel businesses in respect of significant tax liabilities are given in Note 8.
Judgement is in the source markets of Russia, Ukraine, India and China and is also required in the assessment of the future recoverability of tax losses considered to be one operating segment.
and recognition of deferred tax assets.
Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14.
Reportable and reported segments The results of the UK & Ireland, Germany, Nordics and the French tour Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments operator are reported separately due to the size and importance of Judgements have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading these source markets and meeting the threshold for being individual with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order to reportable segments.
The results for the French scheduled airline, assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to Corsair, are shown separately to that of the French tour operator as it those hoteliers.
Judgement can often be based upon an understanding has a different business model to the rest of the Groups integrated tour of the financial strength of those hoteliers and the quality of, and operators.
All of the other Mainstream source markets, except for the demand for, each hotel over the coming seasons.
Hotels division, meet the aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 and are Fair value measurements reported as one segment, the Rest of Mainstream.
All of the aggregated Management has to make judgements regarding the valuation of some businesses are considered to be similar in nature and economically financial instruments that use inputs that are not observable in active similar over the long term.
The Hotels division is reported separately markets.
These are disclosed in Note 26 H. as this does not meet the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8.
Emerging Markets, the Specialist & Activity and A&D Sectors are all 3.
Segmental information reported as separate Sector totals as this is consistent with internal IFRS 8 requires segmental information to be presented on the same management reports.
basis as that used for internal management reporting.
Segmental All reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of leisure information is reported by the Groups business sectors to the Group travel and ancillary services.
Segmental information for both the current Management Board GMB.
The GMB consists of tour operating and and prior year has been presented using this structure.
Corporate costs functional experts drawn from across the Group who execute TUI are in respect of central costs including finance, human resources, legal, Travels day-to-day operations, allocate resources to and assess the facility costs and some information technology costs that do not relate performance of the operating segments.
Consequently, the GMB is to each business segment and hence are not allocated.
considered to be the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of IFRS 8.
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is provided below.
Segmental performance is evaluated based on underlying Group structure operating profit and is measured consistently with underlying operating The Group presents segmental information in respect of its Sectors.
profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements and as defined in The businesses within our Mainstream Sector are reported via each Note 1 B ii.
Intersegmental sales and transfers reflect arms length key source market instead of regionally.
Emerging Markets remains prices as if sold or transferred to third parties.
Financial income and outside of the Mainstream Sector for internal management reporting expenses are not allocated to the reportable segments as this activity is purposes and is reported separately.
managed by the Groups treasury function which manages the overall The Mainstream Sector consists of the following source markets: net cash debt position of the Group.
No one customer exceeds 10% of UK & Ireland, Germany, France, the French scheduled airline, external entity revenues in any segment.
Goodwill impairment losses the Nordic countries, Canada, Belgium & Morocco, the Netherlands, arising are detailed in Note 10 and are recognised in the consolidated Austria, Switzerland, Poland, Southern Europe and the Hotels division income statement.
comprising hotel management companies and joint ventures in Segment assets comprise capital expenditure as this is the only measure hotel assets.
of assets reported monthly to the GMB and represent the amounts Each source market represents an individual operating segment.
Aggregation criteria is used to combine certain of these operating segments into reported segments.
The Specialist & Activity Sector operates under five divisions: Adventure, Education, North American Specialist, Events and Specialist Holidays Group.
The Sector has over 100 international specialist and activity brands delivering a range of unique customer experiences.
The Specialist & Activity Sector is considered to be one operating segment, in line with internal management reporting.
128 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental information continued Segmental analysis year ended 30 September 2014 Underlying intersegmental total external operating total revenue revenue revenue profit loss Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 4,024 97 3,927 271 Germany 3,981 30 3,951 113 Nordics 1,119 11 1,108 47 French tour operator 566 1 565 29 French airline 392 12 380 7 Hotels 247 204 43 4 Rest of Mainstream 2,540 107 2,433 147 total Mainstream 12,869 462 12,407 546 Specialist & Activity 1,331 2 1,329 38 Accommodation & Destinations 1,054 182 872 80 Emerging Markets 11 11 18 All other segments and unallocated items 34 total Group 15,265 646 14,619 612 year ended 30 September 2013 Underlying Intersegmental Total external operating Total revenue revenue revenue profit loss Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 4,007 128 3,879 251 Germany 4,187 26 4,161 113 Nordics 1,223 1,223 79 French tour operator 706 706 59 French airline 408 37 371 1 Hotels 214 160 54 6 Rest of Mainstream 2,564 90 2,474 125 total Mainstream 13,309 441 12,868 514 Specialist & Activity 1,437 4 1,433 41 Accommodation & Destinations 960 210 750 78 Emerging Markets 12 All other segments and unallocated items 32 total Group 15,706 655 15,051 589 Reconciliation of Group underlying operating profit to profit before tax Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated Note m m Group underlying operating profit 612 589 Separately disclosed items 4 1 24 Acquisition related expenses 13 A 67 65 Impairment of goodwill 10 188 Impairment of financial assets 12 29 Taxation on losses profits and interest of joint ventures and associates 12 18 15 Operating profit 499 297 Net financial expenses 5 137 128 Profit before tax 362 169 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Further details are provided in Note 1.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 129 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other segmental information Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment and Capital expenditure amortisation of intangible assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 254 244 78 83 Germany 59 50 20 18 Nordics 8 17 6 5 French tour operator 5 6 7 10 French airline 12 74 27 24 Hotels 18 9 14 15 Rest of Mainstream 102 80 23 22 total Mainstream 458 480 175 177 Specialist & Activity 27 34 36 35 Accommodation & Destinations 35 40 38 33 All other segments and unallocated items 8 1 3 total Group 520 562 250 248 Total capital expenditure of 520m 2013: 562m comprises 107m 2013: 102m of additions to intangible assets as shown in Note 10 and 413m 2013: 460m of additions to property, plant and equipment as shown in Note 11.
Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets of 250m 2013: 248m comprises 102m 2013: 91m of amortisation of intangible assets as shown in Note 10 and 148m 2013: 157m of depreciation of property, plant and equipment as shown in Note 11. entity-wide disclosures The UK is the Groups country of domicile.
In addition to the United Kingdom, revenue relating to an individual country is separately disclosed when it represents broadly 10% or more of total revenue.
Other Europe is defined as Continental Europe and Eire excluding UK and Germany.
Non-current assets for the table above excludes all non-current financial assets and instruments, investments in joint ventures and associates, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets in accordance with IFRS 8.
Separately disclosed items year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Restructuring and other separately disclosed items 30 59 Aircraft and other assets 6 23 Pension related credit 67 25 VAT regularisation 41 Litigation provisions 1 13 total credit charge 1 24 Separately disclosed items within operating profit are included within the consolidated income statement as follows: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Revenue 1 Cost of sales 9 4 Administrative expenses 8 19 total credit charge 1 24 130 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Separately disclosed items continued Restructuring and other separately disclosed items The overall charge of 30m includes 37m of restructuring costs.
Within Mainstream these are primarily related to the One Mainstream initiative and comprise: 14m in Germany arising from the restructure of support functions and the airline engineering department, 10m in France from the ongoing restructure of both the tour operator and the airline and 5m across other Mainstream businesses.
In addition, 4m of restructuring charges have arisen in the Accommodation & Destinations Sector and 4m in Marine.
There has then been 7m of credits arising from the profit on disposal of subsidiaries and the change in value of unhedged foreign currency derivative instruments relating to future seasons.
Included in the year ended 30 September 2013 charge of 59m were: Mainstream restructuring costs of 29m which principally related to the restructuring programmes in the French tour operator and airline: 18m restructuring costs incurred across the Specialist & Activity Sector due to the removal of the Sector management team, the closure of a business in the Education division, further restructuring of the PEAK adventure business based in Melbourne, Australia and rationalisation of overseas bases in the Marine division: and 7m of restructuring costs across the Accommodation & Destinations Sector due to several programmes aimed at rationalising the business structure and moving to a number of regional shared service centres in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Aircraft and other assets During the year ended 30 September 2014, a total credit of 6m has been recognised which arises from various aircraft transactions.
5m of this arose from sale and lease back transactions through taking delivery from Boeing of nine aircraft in the year, net of entry into service costs being incurred as additional Boeing 787 Dreamliners are brought into service.
The comparative credit for various aircraft transactions for the year ended 30 September 2013 was 18m.
There was also a credit of 1m 2013: 5m credit recognised in the year on finalising the disposal of the majority of our interests in The Airline Group Limited, the transaction completing in March 2014.
Pension related credit The 67m non-cash credit recognised in the year ended 30 September 2014 arose mainly from two UK pension transactions which generated a total credit of 61m.
During the first half of the year the current pensioner members of the three main UK defined benefit pension schemes were given the option to exchange non-statutory future increases in their pension for a higher pension now with only limited statutory increases to be applied in future years.
The level of acceptances reduced the present value of future pension liabilities and the resulting credit has been taken to the consolidated income statement under IAS 19 revised as it represents a change in plan benefits.
Net of adviser costs, the credit to the consolidated income statement arising from this transaction was 33m.
In the fourth quarter, agreement was also reached with the Trustees of these three pension schemes to make the same option available to the members not yet drawing their pension and such members were notified in September.
An assumption with respect to the expected level of take up of the option on retirement has been made based on the experience with current pensioner members, considerations specific to the non-pensioner population and evidence from other similar exercises and applying this assumption has resulted in a one-off reduction in pension liabilities of 28m.
This credit has also been taken to the consolidated income statement under IAS 19 revised as it represents a change in plan benefits.
In addition to the UK transactions, in Norway management agreed with the employees to close the defined benefit pension scheme and move the members into a defined contribution scheme.
This change has been classified as a settlement gain on scheme closure under IAS 19 revised and the resultant reduction in accrued pension liabilities of 4m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which it occurred.
During the year ended 30 September 2013, the management and works council of TUI Nederland NV agreed to close their defined benefit pension scheme and replace it with a defined contribution scheme.
This change was also classified as a past service gain under IAS 19 revised and the resultant reduction in accrued pension liabilities of 14m was recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which it occurred.
The management of TUI Nederland NV and the pension scheme trustees also agreed to transfer the existing pension fund assets and liabilities to AEGON, a multinational life insurance, pensions and asset management company headquartered in the Netherlands.
This transfer of the pension assets and liabilities generated a further credit in the consolidated income statement of 11m.
vAt regularisation During the year ended 30 September 2014, advice was taken on the VAT position of Hotelbeds Product SLU, registered in Spain and located in the Canary Islands.
Given the stricter interpretation of VAT regulations in Spain relating to businesses operating in the Canary Islands, the external advice received was to regularise the VAT position.
Therefore during the year additional VAT payments of 40m have been made which relate to years prior to the current financial year and so have been included within separately disclosed items.
A final payment of approximately 1m is expected to be made before the end of the calendar year to finalise the matter and has been accrued for accordingly.
Late payment interest of 3m relating to this item has been included within financial expenses.
Litigation provisions At the year end the Group has continued to assess the likely outcome of the legal actions in which it is involved and, in accordance with IAS 37, has recognised provisions where it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
This year the process has resulted in a charge to the consolidated income statement of 1m.
In the year ended 30 September 2013, the Groups assessment of the likely outcome of the legal actions in which it was then involved resulted in a charge to the consolidated income statement of 13m 15m in respect of the penalties agreed with the Spanish tax authorities on 11 October 2013 under the terms of the settlement reached.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 131 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 5. net financial expenses Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated m m Financial income Bank interest receivable 15 19 Financial expenses Bank interest payable on loans and overdrafts 18 23 Finance charges on convertible bond 53 63 Net interest on pension scheme liabilities Note 6 C 22 26 Finance lease charges and interest on debt financed aircraft 12 12 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 22 6 5 Facility fees 19 13 Change in the fair value of liabilities 6 Other financial expenses 16 5 total 152 147 net financial expenses 137 128 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
6. employees A Average number of employees The average monthly number of employees in the year in the Group by Sector, including Directors on service contracts and key management, was as follows: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 number Number By Sector Mainstream 39,346 38,381 Specialist & Activity 6,349 6,560 Accommodation & Destinations 11,034 10,029 Emerging Markets 194 8 Corporate 466 428 total 57,389 55,406 B employee costs year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 1,488 1,489 Social security costs 238 231 Pension costs: Defined benefit pension scheme past service and settlement credits disclosed in separately disclosed items 67 25 Pension costs: Defined benefit pension scheme cost 34 40 Pension costs: Defined contribution pension scheme cost 53 50 Share-based payments Note 6 D 21 17 total 1,767 1,802 Included within employee costs are 31m 2013: 40m of wages and salaries and 6m 2013: 4m of social security costs in relation to redundancy costs and a 67m credit in relation to pension transactions that are included within separately disclosed items in Note 4.
21m of social security costs arising in the year ended 30 September 2013 have been reclassified in the comparative figures as defined contribution pension scheme costs following a review of pension costs throughout the Group.
132 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6. employees continued c Pension costs The Group operates pension schemes for employees eligible and wishing to participate in the schemes.
These comprise both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Pension obligations vary reflecting the different legal and market conditions in each country of operation.
Defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to private and state-run organisations, whilst defined benefit schemes comprise both funded and unfunded schemes.
The assets of all the funded defined benefit schemes are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors Current contributions are recognised as an expense in the year and, once paid, the Group has no further liability.
Defined benefit pension schemes The movement of defined benefit pension obligations and assets is detailed below, summarised as the UK making up 85% 2013: 86% of the Groups defined benefit obligation DBO, Germany making up 12% 2013: 10% and Other making up 3% 2013: 4%.
Other obligations include funded schemes in Ireland, the Netherlands up until the date of closure of this scheme in the year ended 30 September 2013, Switzerland and Norway up until the date of closure in the current financial year, whilst the main unfunded arrangements are in Austria and France.
Almost all UK schemes are funded whilst German schemes are unfunded.
The three largest UK Schemes are the Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme UK and the Thomson Airways Pension Scheme and, at 30 September 2014, they account for 99.6% 2013: 99.6% of the UKs DBO.
These funded Schemes are closed to new members with the level of retirement benefit generally based on capped pensionable salary at retirement and length of service.
The principal unfunded Schemes in Germany are shown below.
These were all subject to a full actuarial valuation within three months preceding the balance sheet date: Scheme name Status Versorgungsordnung Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft GmbH Open to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Deutschland GmbH Closed to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Closed to new members Unless otherwise stated, the information included within sections i vii of this note below relates to the Groups UK DBO.
i Role of trustees The UK Schemes are funded with the assets held in separate trustee administered funds.
The Trustees comprise representatives appointed by both the employer and Scheme members and include independent Trustees.
The Trustees are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible in particular for the asset investment policy plus the day-to-day administration of the benefits.
They are also responsible for jointly agreeing with the employer the level of contributions.
ii Funding requirements Valuations of the Schemes are made by qualified actuaries using market-based valuations for assets and the projected unit method for liabilities.
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently i. e. to a level in excess of the current expected cost of providing benefits.
Within 15 months following each valuation date, the Trustees and the Group must agree the contributions required if any to ensure that the Schemes are fully funded over time on a suitably prudent measure.
Contributions agreed in this manner constitute a minimum funding requirement.
As part of the funding of the UK Schemes, the Group has established a Pension Funding Partnership arrangement PFP including TUI Travel Amber Scot LP SLP and TUI Travel Amber E&W LLP LLP, together the Partnerships.
The main operating brands of the UK business, namely Thomson and First Choice, were transferred to the LLP and the three largest pension Schemes subscribed for interests in the LLP via the SLP.
TUI UK Limited pays a royalty to the LLP for the use of the brands.
The Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme UK and the Thomson Airways Pension Scheme in aggregate are entitled to an annual income distribution of approximately 17m.
The PFP has a life of 15 years from inception in 2011, after which the Schemes will receive a payment equal to their outstanding funding deficit, up to a maximum of 275m in aggregate, in return for their interest in the PFP.
The Partnerships are controlled by the Group and their results are consolidated by the Group.
There is no net impact on the consolidated balance sheet, equity, the IAS 19 revised deficit, or the consolidated income statement.
The investment held by the pension Schemes does not meet the definition of a scheme asset under IAS 19 revised, and is therefore not included within the fair value of Scheme assets disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
The recognition of the brand assets in the consolidated financial statements remains unaffected by the establishment of the PFP, although the Thomson and First Choice brands, the latter of which is recognised on the consolidated balance sheet, are now being held as security for the PFP.
See Note 10 for further information.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 133 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Valuations for the Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme UK and the Thomson Airways Pension Scheme are currently held every two years and the latest valuations were undertaken as at 31 March 2012 by independent actuaries appointed by the Trustees.
Agreement on the 2012 Scheme valuations and associated funding contributions was reached in September 2013.
Based upon these valuations, employer contributions to the funded UK Schemes are expected to be 82m 2013: 116m over the next year, including 17m 2013: 17m in respect of income distribution from the PFP.
Details of the current funding commitments of these three UK Schemes are shown in the table below.
In addition to this funding, there is a performance related payment, based on the higher of annual growth in declared dividend payments or annual growth in underlying earnings before interest, tax and amortisation, measured on a constant currency basis.
Once annual growth reaches 7%, payment is triggered, at the rate of 0.33m per 0.1% of growth above 7% up to annual growth of 10%.
At 10%, the rate increases to 0.5m per 0.1%, subject to a cap of 85m for total deficit contributions, inclusive of the PFP payment of 17m.
The PFP contributions will terminate in 2026.
The current level of deficit contributions detailed below are scheduled to end in October 2021, although they are subject to revision by the funding valuations.
The performance related payment element of deficit funding is scheduled to end in 2016.
Date of last full Average employee Scheme name actuarial valuation Average Group contribution rate contribution rate Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation 13.9% of pensionable salary plus 32.3m per annum deficit contribution and and Life Assurance Scheme 31 March 2012 12.2m PFP income 10.0% 11.5% of pensionable salary plus 13.3m per annum deficit contribution and TUI Pension Scheme UK 31 March 2012 4.2m PFP income 7.2% 19.8% of pensionable salary plus 2.9m per annum deficit contribution and Thomson Airways Pension Scheme 31 March 2012 0.5m PFP income 14.2% Where there is more than a single class of membership, contribution rates reflect weighted average values within the scheme.
Contribution rates are stated before adjustment for salary sacrifice arrangements where applicable.
Valuations with an effective date of 31 March 2014 are currently in progress.
iii Assumptions Assumptions under IAS 19 revised are set using the best estimate with reference to market conditions at the valuation date.
The assets of each Scheme have been taken at market value whilst liabilities in each territory have been calculated using the following principal financial and demographic assumptions.
Financial assumptions 1 4 UK per annum Germany per annum Other per annum 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 % % % % % % 2 Inflation: RPI or local equivalent 3.3 3.3 0.3 1.3 0.8 1.2 3 Pensionable salary inflation 2.7 2.7 2.5 2.5 1.8 2.4 Discount rate 3.9 4.4 2.3 3.5 1.7 2.7 1 Pension increases in payment across the UK Schemes reflect either fixed increases or index linked increases, subject to minimum and maximum limits applicable to each class of benefit.
2 Within the UK, CPI inflation is assumed to be 1.0% below RPI 2013: 1.0%.
3 UK pensionable salary increase is capped at 2.5% for all employees earning over 32,307.
4 The assumptions for Other are a weighted average.
Demographic assumptions The mortality assumptions underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for each territory are set out in the tables below.
The mortality assumptions are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each territory: UK life expectancy weighted average 2014 2013 years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 23.2 23.1 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.6 24.5 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 25.6 25.5 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 27.1 27.0 134 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6. employees continued Germany life expectancy 2014 2013 years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.9 18.8 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 21.6 21.4 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 23.0 22.8 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 25.5 25.4 Other life expectancy weighted average 2014 2013 years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 20.2 20.7 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 21.7 23.0 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 23.3 23.2 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.8 25.6 iv Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the DBO to the key financial and demographic assumptions is illustrated below: UK Germany 2014 2014 m m Financial assumptions Inflation Increase in obligation due to increasing inflation by 0.5% 50 10 Decrease in obligation due to decreasing inflation by 0.5% 42 9 Pensionable salary inflation Increase in obligation due to increasing pensionable salary inflation by 0.5% 3 12 Decrease in obligation due to decreasing pensionable salary inflation by 0.5% 3 11 Discount rate Increase in obligation due to decreasing discount rate by 0.5% 205 30 Decrease in obligation due to increasing discount rate by 0.5% 178 26 Demographic assumptions Mortality rate Increase in obligation due to increasing all life expectancies by 1 year 63 6 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the financial year and may not be representative of the actual change.
It is based on the key assumptions while holding all other assumptions constant.
The approach used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous financial year.
Sensitivity analysis for Other Schemes has not been provided as there is no reasonably possible change to an assumption that would lead to a materially different DBO than currently recognised.
v Duration The weighted average duration of the Groups UK obligations is 21 years, with individual UK Scheme durations ranging from 14 to 22 years.
The weighted average duration of the Groups German obligations is 22 years, with individual German Scheme durations ranging from 22 to 25 years.
vi composition of defined benefit obligations The Groups UK DBO comprise 27% 2013: 26% in relation to active members, 27% 2013: 27% in relation to deferred members and 46% 2013: 47% in relation to pensioner members at 30 September 2014.
The Groups German DBO comprise 76% 2013: 73% in relation to active members, 7% 2013: 7% in relation to deferred members and 17% 2013: 20% in relation to pensioner members at 30 September 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 135 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION vii Risks Approximately 85% 2013: 86% of the Groups defined benefit obligations as at 30 September 2014 are concentrated in the UK and this exposes the Group to a number of financial risks asset risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and foreign exchange risk and demographic risk mortality risk.
Asset risk 59% 2013: 64% of the main UK Schemes assets are invested in equity, property and alternatives which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but are likely to increase the volatility of the balance sheet and risk of deficit in the short term.
Investing in these asset classes also creates concentration and liquidity risk.
Concentration risk is the risk that the performance of a single investment might negatively impact on the Trustees ability to meet their objectives.
Liquidity risk is the risk of a shortfall in cash relative to the short-term liabilities.
During the current financial year, two of the three main UK Schemes implemented Liability driven investment LDI strategies.
The aim of these strategies is to invest in assets that hedge against interest rate risk and inflation risk mentioned below.
The allocation of assets is reviewed by the Trustees to ensure it remains appropriate given the Schemes long-term objectives and liquidity requirements.
Interest rate risk All Schemes are subject to interest rate risk, where a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the value placed on the DBO for accounting purposes, resulting in an increased deficit.
However, this is partially mitigated by investing 41% 2013: 36% in government bonds gilts, corporate bonds, LDI and cash.
Inflation rate risk A significant proportion of the Groups DBO is indexed in line with price inflation, specifically inflation in the UK Retail Price Index and Consumer Price Index, subject to defined caps and collars.
Inflation risk is considered less significant due to the use of the caps and collars, such as pension increases not being fully linked to inflation.
Additionally, the three main UK Schemes collectively hold some inflation-linked assets, which provide a partial hedge against higher than expected increases in inflation.
Foreign exchange risk Overseas Schemes account for 15% 2013: 14% of the Groups DBO and face similar risks compared to the UK Schemes, including asset risk, where funded.
The Group faces two types of foreign exchange risk.
The first is from assets within the UK Scheme that are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the second from the consolidation of the Groups overseas Schemes that are in a functional currency other than Sterling.
This latter risk is increased where a Scheme is unfunded, as foreign exchange movements on those Schemes DBO are not matched by a corresponding foreign exchange movement in related assets.
Mortality risk The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liability.
The Group has recently taken steps to reduce exposure to inflation and mortality risks.
In November 2013, the Group commenced a Pension Increase Exchange PIE exercise with pensioner members of the three main UK schemes.
Members were given the option to exchange non-statutory increases for a higher initial annual pension which increases in line with lower statutory requirements.
28% of members who received this offer chose to accept it, and this became effective from 1 April 2014.
This exercise gave rise to a past service credit of 33m, net of adviser costs in the consolidated income statement.
In the fourth quarter of the year ending 30 September 2014, a second PIE exchange was implemented, to introduce PIE as part of the normal retirement options for all active and deferred members.
This exercise gave rise to a past service credit of 28m, net of adviser costs in the consolidated income statement.
Further details of the calculation of this credit is given in Note 2 A. viii Past service costs and settlements Details of the Groups PIE and the impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014 are included above.
The Norwegian defined benefit Scheme was closed in the financial year and the Scheme assets were used to buy insurance policies covering accumulated benefits.
The closure of this Scheme generated a settlement gain of 4m, disclosed as a separately disclosed item in the consolidated income statement.
In the year ended 30 September 2013, the management and Works Council of TUI Nederland NV agreed to close the defined benefit pension Scheme and transferred those pension fund assets and liabilities to AEGON, a multinational life insurance, pensions and asset management company headquartered in the Netherlands.
The closure and transfer of assets and liabilities resulted in a past service credit of 14m and a settlement credit of 11m, both disclosed as separately disclosed items in the consolidated income statement.
136 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6. employees continued ix Key accounting results consolidated income statement disclosures The Group recognises the results of its defined benefit pension schemes within the Groups consolidated income statement for the years ended 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013 for each territory as follows.
Further details of the 2013 restated figures are disclosed in Note 1.
UK Germany Other Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 m 2014 m 2014 m 2014 m m restated m restated m restated m restated Current service cost 18 17 12 12 4 6 34 35 Past service credit cost 63 5 14 63 9 Settlement gain 4 11 4 11 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 15 19 7 6 1 22 26 total 30 36 19 23 18 11 41 consolidated balance sheet A reconciliation of the Groups net defined benefit liability, analysed between the DBO and plan assets is as follows.
Present value of defined benefit Fair value of Net defined obligation plan assets benefit liability m m m At 1 October 2012 1,991 1,343 648 Current service cost 35 35 Financial expense income restated 81 55 26 Past service credit and settlement gains 127 107 20 Credit charge to the consolidated income statement restated 11 52 41 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense restated 45 45 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 33 33 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 62 62 Actuarial gains arising from experience 39 39 Charge credit to other comprehensive income restated 56 45 11 Employer contributions 62 62 Plan participants contributions 1 1 Benefit payments 86 81 5 Business combinations 16 16 Foreign exchange 16 4 12 53 14 39 At 30 September 2013 1,983 1,322 661 Present value of defined benefit Fair value of Net defined obligation plan assets benefit liability m m m At 1 October 2013 1,983 1,322 661 Current service cost 34 34 Financial expense income 81 59 22 Past service credit and settlement gains 71 4 67 Charge credit to the consolidated income statement 44 55 11 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense 79 79 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 238 238 Actuarial losses arising from experience 33 33 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 271 79 192 Employer contributions 117 117 Plan participants contributions 1 1 Benefit payments 71 65 6 Foreign exchange 23 3 20 93 50 143 At 30 September 2014 2,205 1,506 699 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 137 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Groups DBO and plan assets by territory is analysed as follows: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 UK Germany Other total UK Germany Other Total m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 1,870 54 1,924 1,704 59 1,763 Fair value of plan assets 1,458 48 1,506 1,272 50 1,322 Deficit of funded plans 412 6 418 432 9 441 Present value of unfunded obligations 2 258 21 281 1 201 18 220 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligation 414 258 27 699 433 201 27 661 Analysed as: Retirement benefit current liabilities 3 1 4 3 3 Retirement benefit non-current liabilities 414 255 26 695 433 198 27 658 total 414 258 27 699 433 201 27 661 x Assets The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the financial year was as follows: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 quoted Unquoted total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m m m m UK equities 67 67 61 61 Overseas equities 455 455 442 442 Fixed interest gilts 104 104 166 166 Index linked gilts 73 73 94 94 Corporate bonds 144 144 127 127 Property 79 10 89 62 13 75 Emerging market debt 11 28 39 7 26 33 Emerging market currency 29 29 27 27 Diversified growth funds 63 63 75 75 Commodities 17 17 17 17 Catastrophe bonds 41 41 37 37 Liability driven investment 159 159 Alternative credit 49 18 67 50 4 54 Cash & cash equivalents 114 114 67 67 Insurance and other 45 45 47 47 total fair value of scheme assets 1,141 365 1,506 1,009 313 1,322 There is no direct investment in financial instruments issued by the Group, or in property occupied by the Group.
Investments in passive index tracker funds may hold a proportionate investment in TUI Travel PLC.
D Share award schemes The Company operates three principal share award schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The schemes are the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS and the Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme DABLIS.
All shares under these schemes involve both service and performance conditions and are awarded at nil cost to participants.
The DABLIS scheme is described below and the other two schemes are described in the Remuneration Report along with the relevant vesting criteria.
138 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6. employees continued At 30 September 2014, the ordinary shares that were allocated, outstanding and subject to performance conditions were as follows: number of shares Number of shares Date due to vest Share award scheme 2014 2013 date vested Performance Share Plan 1,851,300 6 December 2013 3,042,857 3,042,857 7 December 2014 193,243 193,243 1 June 2015 1,851,735 1,851,735 6 December 2015 1,281,570 12 December 2016 Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 3,535,905 6 December 2013 5,200,660 5,200,660 7 December 2014 3,497,428 3,604,844 6 December 2015 2,448,328 12 December 2016 Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme 2,032,726 6 December 2013 3,598,741 3,601,638 7 December 2014 2,105,670 2,211,179 6 December 2015 1,843,523 12 December 2016 Total 25,063,755 27,126,087 The number of share awards at the beginning and end of the year is as follows: number of awards Number of awards 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 Outstanding at the beginning of the year excluding deferred shares 27,126,087 28,249,566 Forfeited during the year 461,473 3,846,929 Exercised during the year 7,295,337 5,076,118 Granted during the year 5,694,478 7,799,568 Outstanding at the end of the year excluding deferred shares 25,063,755 27,126,087 In addition to the above shares, there are 2,813,458 2013:3,118,873 deferred shares that are outstanding and allocated, but not subject to performance conditions, in relation to the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme.
These are due to vest between 7 December 2014 and 12 December 2016.
In respect of the Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme there are an additional 4,411,903 2013: 4,465,568 deferred shares that are outstanding and allocated but which are not subject to performance conditions.
No material awards have been made to date under the Groups HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan, which is an all-employee share plan.
The fair value of services received in return for shares awarded during the year is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares awarded.
The fair value at the date the shares were awarded has been estimated using a binomial methodology for all schemes except where there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting, in which case a Monte Carlo simulation was used.
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 2014 2013 information relating to fair values of shares awarded Fair value at measurement date 1.65-3.28 1.45-2.45 Share price 3.77 2.84 Expected volatility 30.6% 35.5% Award life 3 years 3 years Expected dividends 4.67% 4.94% Risk free interest rate 0.78% 0.42% Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting.
Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility indicated by publicly available information.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 139 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION employee expenses for the year Employee expenses for the current and prior year relating to share-based schemes are: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Equity-settled 19 15 Expense arising for share appreciation rights 2 2 total 21 17 Share appreciation rights Certain participants other than Board Directors are eligible to receive their awards on a cash-settled basis, the calculation of which exactly replicates the formal share-based scheme.
Deferred Annual Bonus Long-term incentive Scheme The Deferred Annual Bonus Long-Term Incentive Scheme DABLIS is for participants below the GMB level and requires a 25% deferral of any annual performance bonus award into shares.
Matching shares may also be awarded up to four times the deferred amount and are subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions over a three year period.
Awards of deferred and matching shares are subject to forfeiture conditions until the release date.
The earliest point at which the shares are eligible for release is at the end of three years following deferral.
For awards of matching shares made during the year, no shares will vest unless the annual average of the ratio of the Groups return on invested capital ROIC to the weighted average cost of capital WACC meets or exceeds one over the three year period.
A hurdle of ROIC, being at least equal to WACC, is used to ensure that the relevant long-term incentive awards pay out only when shareholder value is being created over the performance periods.
If the ROIC WACC hurdle is met, shares will only vest to the extent to which three further performance conditions are satisfied over the three year period as follows: Up to half of the matching shares will vest based on achievement of an aggregate EBITA profit target for the participants Sector over the three year performance period.
Achievement of aggregate eBitA target Proportion of award that vests At or below 75% 0% Between 75% and 100% On a straight-line basis between 10% and 100% At or above 100% 100% Up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS, in relation to the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI as shown in the table below: Average annual ePS growth in excess of RPi growth Proportion of award that vests Below 4% 0% Between 4% and 13% On a straight-line basis between 10% and 100% 13% or above 100% Up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on the Groups ranking of total shareholder return TSR performance relative to an average of the TSR performance of an index of international travel and leisure companies.
Deloitte provides the Group with the TSR measurement as required.
The index is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for comparison purposes.
The companies included in the index are: 1 Aer Lingus Group 9 Finnair 17 Pierre & Vacances 2 Air Berlin 10 FirstGroup 18 Priceline.
com 3 Air France-KLM 11 Flight Centre 19 Royal Caribbean Cruises 4 Carnival 12 Hertz Global Holdings 20 Ryanair Holdings 5 Club Mediterranee 13 International Consolidated Airlines Group 21 Stagecoach Group 6 Deutsche Lufthansa 14 Kuoni Group 22 Thomas Cook Group 7 easyJet 15 National Express Group 23 Wotif.
com Holdings 8 Expedia 16 Norwegian Air Shuttle tUi travels tSR performance Proportion of award that vests Below index 0% Between index and index 8% per annum inclusive On a straight-line basis between 15% and 100% Exceeding index 8% per annum 100% Matching share awards lapse if the performance conditions are not met.
e Remuneration of Directors year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Emoluments 6 7 Pensions and other retirement benefits 1 1 total 7 8 Further information, including long-term incentive plans, is provided in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
140 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7. income, expenses and auditors remuneration year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m included within operating profit in the consolidated income statement for the year are the following credits charges: Operating lease income: aircraft 39 40 Operating lease income: land and buildings 2 2 Operating lease rentals: land and buildings, aircraft and other equipment 584 604 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 148 157 Amortisation of intangible assets: business combination intangibles 51 57 Amortisation of intangible assets: other intangibles 51 34 Charge for share-based payments 21 17 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 16 10 Loss profit on foreign currency retranslation 3 19 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 199 Impairment of financial assets 29 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 3 In addition to the operating lease rentals disclosed above, charges of 101m 2013: 102m were incurred in respect of hotel accommodation rentals which are disclosed as operating leases under IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The Group leases aircraft throughout the year and, in certain circumstances, sub-leases a number of such aircraft when it has the capacity to do so, in order to maximise utilisation.
Up to seven aircraft are leased to other airline companies at fixed rates.
In addition, up to 14 aircraft are leased to the Sunwing Travel Group Sunwing, an associate of the Group.
The aircraft leased to Sunwing are winter-only leases and are at market rates.
The expected future minimum lease income under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 Minimum lease income under non-cancellable operating leases arising: m m Within one year 24 32 Between one and five years 27 49 Later than five years 16 23 Total 67 104 Services provided by the companys auditors and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor and its associates: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 5 5 Auditors remuneration for audit services 6 6 1 Other services provided to comply with legislation 1 1 Audit and audit related services 7 7 All other services 2 2 1 Relate principally to the interim review and airline regulatory returns.
Fees charged to the consolidated income statement in 2014 in respect of all other services, totalling 2m, includes 562,000 for their work on a variety of consultancy engagements, 292,000 for providing advice on several IT projects and 240,000 of tax advice in respect of expatriates.
Fees charged to the consolidated income statement in 2013 in respect of all other services, totalling 2m, included 850,000 for their work on the Class 1 shareholder circular in respect of aircraft orders with Boeing, 420,000 in respect of the implementation of the COSO framework in the German businesses and 266,000 of tax advice in respect of expatriates.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 141 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 8. taxation The tax charge can be summarised as follows: i Analysis of charge in the year Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated Note m m current tax charge UK corporation tax on profit for the year 8 6 Non-UK tax on profit loss for the year 88 92 Adjustments in respect of previous years 3 45 93 143 Deferred tax charge credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences: Current year UK 38 6 Current year non-UK 20 7 Changes in tax rates 2 4 Adjustments in respect of previous years 26 45 14 82 28 total income tax charge in consolidated income statement 175 115 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Following a review of the Groups deferred tax balances in the year, the Directors have written off certain deferred tax assets totalling 26m where there is no longer sufficient certainty of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future and which have been treated as a separately disclosed tax item for the purpose of calculating underlying earnings per share, as disclosed in Note 33.
As part of this review, 23m of deferred tax liabilities have been written back to reserves in the year, principally in respect of the convertible bonds.
In the year ended 30 September 2013, certain tax balances were adjusted to reflect the position of the latest local statutory accounts and tax returns.
These adjustments were reflected in the consolidated income statement in that year but due to their underlying nature, were not treated as separately disclosed tax items for the purpose of calculating underlying earnings per share.
ii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge 2013: charge for the year is higher 2013: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22% 2013: 23.5%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended year ended 30 September 2013 30 September 2014 restated m % m % Profit before tax reported in the consolidated income statement 362 169 Excluding share of losses profits in joint ventures and associates Note 12 20 17 382 152 Income tax on profit before tax excluding share of losses profit of joint ventures and associates at the standard rate of UK tax of 22% 2013: 23.5% 84 22 36 24 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 34 9 51 34 Income not taxable 5 1 10 7 Tax losses not recognised as an asset 26 7 33 22 Tax adjustments to deferred tax assets previously recognised 18 5 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 6 2 7 5 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 3 1 8 5 Changes in tax rates 2 1 4 3 Adjustments to taxation in respect of previous years 23 6 total income tax charge in consolidated income statement 175 46 115 76 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The underlying effective rate of taxation for the year ended 30 September 2014 is calculated based on the underlying profit before tax excluding separately disclosed items, acquisition related expenses and impairment charges and equates to 31%.
The actual tax rate of 46% differs from the underlying effective tax rate primarily due to the separately disclosed tax item referred to in Note 8 i above.
142 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8. taxation continued iii Deferred tax recognised outside of the consolidated income statement The following taxation charge credit has been recognised outside of the consolidated income statement: Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated m m tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 17 22 Defined benefit pension plans 45 14 total tax credited to other comprehensive income 28 8 tax relating to components of equity Convertible bonds 23 3 Share based payments 6 total tax credited directly to equity 29 3 total 57 11 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
iv Factors affecting future tax charge A At the balance sheet date, the Finance Act 2014 had been enacted confirming that the main UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
Therefore, at 30 September 2014, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on a rate of 20% where the temporary difference is expected to reverse after 1 April 2015.
These reductions may also reduce the Companys future current tax charges accordingly.
B During 2012, the German tax authorities issued new guidance on how certain items of expenditure should be treated for the purposes of German trade tax.
In 2013 the German tax authorities provided some additional clarification and informed the Group that, in their opinion, the guidance is applicable to tour operating activities in Germany.
There have been no substantive administrative, legislative or judicial developments on this matter during 2014.
The Group continues to disagree with the German tax authorities interpretation of this matter.
It is possible that this issue will have to be litigated through the German tax courts and it could take a considerable amount of time to bring to a resolution.
It is difficult to estimate accurately the potential liability should the German tax authorities challenge successfully the Groups interpretation of the guidance due to the differing nature of the contracts which could be impacted by any such challenge.
As a result there is a range of possible outcomes.
If the Group is successful in its arguments there would be no exposure.
However, it is possible that the liability over the last seven years 2013: six years could be up to a total of approximately 90m 2013: 80m, although the Group believes that German trade tax law should not apply to standard tour operating contracts and that any liability would be substantially less than this.
C Other factors which may affect the future tax charge include the mix of jurisdictions with different tax rates in which profits and losses arise, changes in tax rates and the potential future recognition of tax losses for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised at the year end Note 14. v Spanish tax case The Spanish tax case came to a conclusion in the year with the final hearing in the Spanish courts occurring on 31 March 2014.
In line with the settlement agreement reached on 11 October 2013, the interest and penalties levied of 20m were paid prior to that final hearing and the matter is now closed.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 143 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 9.
Dividends The following dividends which relate to the Companys ordinary shares have been deducted from equity in the year: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Pence 2014 2013 per share m m Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2012 Interim dividend paid October 2012 3.4 38 Final dividend paid April 2013 8.3 92 11.7 130 Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2013 Interim dividend paid October 2013 3.75 42 Final dividend paid April 2014 9.75 108 13.5 150 The interim dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2014 of 4.05p per share was paid on 3 October 2014 and this dividend of 46m will be recognised as a deduction from equity in the year ending 30 September 2015.
On 15 September 2014, as part of the Rule 2.7 announcement, the Directors announced that the Company will, immediately prior to completion of the merger with TUI AG, declare and pay a second interim dividend of 20.5p per share, which includes a 10.5p dividend per share in lieu of a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
This second interim dividend will be payable to those shareholders on the register of members of the Company at the Scheme Record Time and will be paid prior to completion of the merger, conditional on the Court Order having been granted at the Scheme Court Hearing.
144 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10. intangible assets Customer Computer Software in Goodwill Brands relationships software Licences development Other Total m m m m m m m m cost At 1 October 2012 4,413 455 195 459 26 62 169 5,779 Additions 52 49 1 102 Acquisition through business combinations 24 4 3 1 32 Disposals 1 2 185 1 6 195 Foreign exchange 68 2 7 8 1 2 88 Reclassification of asset class 18 18 At 30 September 2013 4,505 460 203 353 26 93 166 5,806 Additions 1 45 1 60 107 Acquisition through business combinations 23 8 4 35 Disposals 4 12 4 6 26 Foreign exchange 130 10 11 15 2 1 3 172 Reclassification of asset class 50 50 At 30 September 2014 4,395 458 196 421 21 96 163 5,750 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 October 2012 637 135 72 341 18 4 90 1,297 Amortisation for the year 25 14 42 2 8 91 Impairment loss 188 2 2 7 199 Disposals 1 2 181 1 2 187 Foreign exchange 14 1 2 4 1 22 At 30 September 2013 839 162 86 208 19 11 97 1,422 Amortisation for the year 25 14 54 1 8 102 Disposals 2 12 2 6 22 Foreign exchange 30 4 5 7 2 3 51 Reclassification of asset class 1 1 At 30 September 2014 807 183 95 242 17 5 102 1,451 net book value At 1 October 2012 3,776 320 123 118 8 58 79 4,482 At 30 September 2013 3,666 298 117 145 7 82 69 4,384 At 30 September 2014 3,588 275 101 179 4 91 61 4,299 Additions to computer software and software in development totalling 105m 2013: 101m include costs relating to major IT development projects across all Sectors within the Group, including the implementation of SAP across certain Mainstream source markets and the development of digital solution platforms for our customers.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation of business combination and other intangibles together with depreciation of property, plant and equipment is disclosed by segment in Note 3.
The Group has established a Pension Funding Partnership arrangement PFP.
The main operating brands of the UK business, namely Thomson and First Choice, were sold into the PFP and three UK pension schemes subscribed for interests in the PFP.
The recognition of the two brand assets in the consolidated financial statements remains unaffected by the establishment of the PFP, although the Thomson and First Choice brands, the latter of which is recognised on the Group balance sheet at a value of 87m 2013: 94m, are now being held as security for the PFP.
Individual intangible assets other than goodwill that are considered material to the Group are as follows: Brands Customer relationships Other intangible assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m First Choice brand 87 94 Marmara brand 23 27 Accommodation Wholesaler customer relationships 55 66 Landing slots 26 28 110 121 55 66 26 28 The First Choice and Marmara brands are major brands of the UK & Ireland and French tour operating businesses respectively and have a remaining amortisation period of 13 years 2013: 14 years.
The customer relationships within the Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation Wholesaler Sector are in respect of commercial contractual relationships with travel agents and have a remaining amortisation period of eight years 2013: nine years.
The landing slots are in respect of the UK & Ireland business for airports in the UK and have a remaining amortisation period of 13 years 2013: 14 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 145 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Goodwill impairment testing IAS 36 requires that impairment tests are carried out on CGUs, following the level at which the Groups management measures returns on operations.
Once every year, or more frequently if events or a change in the economic environment indicate a risk of impairment, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to its CGUs as required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable value of goodwill for all CGUs has been determined to be value in use.
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following assumptions: Cash flow projections based on the Groups latest Board approved three year business plan, which management has extended by two years to create a five year plan.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using a real growth rate of between 1.0% and 3.55% 2013: between 1.0% and 3.9%.
The growth rate used is less than or equal to third party estimates of the medium term GDP growth rates of the key geographic markets in which the specific CGU operates at the time the projections are prepared.
Cash flows are discounted using the Groups WACC adjusted as appropriate for business specific factors, such as geographic risk.
Cash flows exclude planned enhancement capital expenditure, together with the associated benefit that the expenditure is expected to produce.
Cash flows include the impact of working capital in both the asset base and the impact on cash flows over the five year plan period.
Central Group overheads are borne in full by CGUs and are allocated pro rata to the CGUs underlying operating profit.
Assumptions used in the five year plan take past experience into account with CGU-specific and central contingencies in the five year plan being allocated across all CGUs.
Since determination of an appropriate Group WACC is judgemental, sensitivities also address how increases in the base Group WACC might impact the results of the impairment tests.
The Groups WACC is based on a capital asset pricing model calculation using a mixture of in-house data and externally available information, with input from external advisers.
An analysis of the aggregate and material carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each principal CGU, including goodwill for those CGUs which are sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, together with the growth rates being applied to cash flows beyond the five year plan period and the pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU is as follows: Growth rate applied to Goodwill cash flows after five year plan Pre-tax discount rate used 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Sector CGU m m % % % % Mainstream UK & Ireland 1,490 1,490 2.4 2.45 9 10 Mainstream Germany 384 407 1.3 1.4 10 11 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation Wholesaler 365 385 2.0 2.0 11 11 Mainstream Nordics 265 271 2.1 2.2 10 11 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation OTA 215 239 3.23 3.43 10 10 Mainstream French tour operator 125 137 1.8 1.75 9 10 Specialist & Activity Specialist Holidays Group 131 112 2.4 2.45 9 10 Specialist & Activity Adventure 101 129 2.73 2.78 9 11 Specialist & Activity Marine 63 73 2.0 2.1 10 10 Specialist & Activity North American Education 40 22 2.3 2.2 11 11 Specialist & Activity Events formerly Sport 29 15 2.73 2.73 10 10 All Sectors Multiple CGUs 380 386 1.0-3.55 1.0-3.9 9-13 10-14 total goodwill 3,588 3,666 The multiple CGUs not separately listed above do not individually represent more than 3% of total Group goodwill.
All of the Groups goodwill has been allocated to each CGU and all CGUs have been tested for impairment.
Goodwill impairment charges If the recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated to be less than the total of its operating non-current assets, goodwill and other intangibles, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets on a pro rata basis.
146 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10. intangible assets continued No goodwill impairment charges have arisen in the year ended 30 September 2014 since the recoverable amount for all CGUs tested was at least equal to the carrying amount.
Goodwill impairment charges in the comparative year ended 30 September 2013 totalling 188m equalled the difference between the net book values and the recoverable amounts and is analysed as follows.
Goodwill impairment Pre-tax charge discount rate Long-term growth rate 2013 2013 2013 Sector & IFRS 8 reportable segment CGU m % % Mainstream France French tour operator 59 10 1.75 Specialist & Activity Marine 39 10 2.1 Specialist & Activity Events formerly Sport 26 10 2.73 Specialist & Activity Experience Education 22 10 2.2 Specialist & Activity North American Education 22 11 2.2 Mainstream Southern Europe Italy 9 10 1.0 Mainstream Southern Europe Spain 1 14 1.8 Goodwill impairment charge arising from the annual impairment test 178 Goodwill impairment charge recognised on closure of businesses 10 total goodwill impairment charges recognised in the previous year 188 All of the impairment charges arising from the Groups annual impairment test in the year ended 30 September 2013, which totalled 178m, arose as a result of a deterioration in forecast trading results.
The impairment test for all of these CGUs was based on the value in use calculation.
The impairment charges are disclosed within administrative expenses and shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The impairments arose since the cash flow model based on the current five year plan did not support the carrying amount of goodwill for these CGUs.
Sensitivity analysis for goodwill The calculation of recoverable amount is particularly sensitive to forecast future earnings, the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
The Directors have considered the separate impacts of: i increasing WACC by 0.5%: ii a reduction in underlying earnings of 5% across all years: and iii a reduction in the long-term percentage growth rate beyond the five year plan to nil as being reasonably possible changes.
Impairment charge arising from a reasonably possible change in assumption: Reduction in Reduction in the long-term Increase in underlying percentage Goodwill WACC of 0.5% earnings of 5% growth rate to nil cGU m m m m North America Education 40 4 5 12 Events 29 3 5 8 Marine 63 29 Adventure 101 5 Accommodation OTA 215 75 448 7 10 129 In respect of the North American Education and Events CGUs, the recoverable amount equals the carrying amount and therefore any change to an assumption used in the test will cause an impairment.
For the Marine, Adventure and Accommodation OTA CGUs, the recoverable value would equal the carrying amount if the long-term percentage growth rate reduced by 0.7%, 2.4% and 0.8% respectively.
Additionally, the recoverable value would equal the carrying amount if the cash flows do not increase by 6m, 6m and 30m over the five year plan in the Adventure, Events and Accommodation OTA CGUs respectively.
The sensitivities disclosed immediately above do not take account of any mitigating action that management would take should earnings decrease.
No other material impairments to goodwill or assets would arise following these reasonably possible changes in these key assumptions.
Based on all of the calculations undertaken, the Directors consider that the recoverable amount of goodwill in each CGU is at least equal to its current carrying value.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 147 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 11.
Property, plant and equipment Advance payment Yachts, motor for future Land and boats and Aircraft and delivery Computer Other buildings cruise ships equipment of aircraft equipment equipment Total m m m m m m m cost At 1 October 2012 358 433 687 215 187 486 2,366 Foreign exchange 2 16 2 1 6 27 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 3 7 11 Additions 19 28 187 140 11 75 460 Disposals 71 10 156 136 120 156 649 Reclassifications 3 1 45 27 2 22 Transferred to from assets held for sale 6 1 31 8 1 15 At 30 September 2013 306 449 810 186 84 395 2,230 Foreign exchange 19 3 25 1 4 25 77 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 2 Transfers to inventory 4 4 Additions 16 19 149 169 10 50 413 Disposals 6 20 40 187 8 27 288 Reclassifications 30 1 8 10 43 6 At 30 September 2014 328 442 902 167 92 351 2,282 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2012 187 160 437 163 323 1,270 Foreign exchange 1 2 11 1 5 12 Provided in the year 24 24 59 15 35 157 Disposals 70 6 138 119 142 475 Impairments 1 2 3 Reclassifications 1 1 1 1 28 1 25 Transferred to from assets held for sale At 30 September 2013 140 174 399 58 221 992 Foreign exchange 8 19 4 15 46 Depreciation on transfers to inventory 3 3 Provided in the year 17 26 63 12 30 148 Disposals 5 14 35 7 21 82 Impairments 6 6 Reclassifications 9 5 14 At 30 September 2014 153 189 408 64 201 1,015 net book value At 1 October 2012 171 273 250 215 24 163 1,096 At 30 September 2013 166 275 411 186 26 174 1,238 At 30 September 2014 175 253 494 167 28 150 1,267 148 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment continued impairment charges The 6m impairment charge in the year ended 30 September 2014 relates to the impairment of one owned ship within the UK & Ireland operating segment.
The impairment charge is included within cost of sales.
Additions to aircraft and equipment Additions of 149m 2013: 187m to aircraft and equipment primarily relates to the purchase of aircraft during the year, including aircraft on finance leases, as well as fleet improvements and capitalised maintenance on owned aircraft.
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft Additions of 169m 2013: 140m to advance payments for future delivery of aircraft were due to payments made for the future delivery of 75 aircraft 2013: 76 aircraft and interest of 8m 2013: 8m that has been capitalised during the year at a rate of 5.4% 2013: 5.4%.
The disposal of 187m 2013: 136m from advance payments for future delivery of aircraft arises from the delivery and then sale and leaseback of nine aircraft 2013: 13 aircraft.
Other disclosures Other equipment with a combined net book value as at 30 September 2014 of 150m 2013: 174m includes 92m 2013: 94m of fixtures and fittings, 36m 2013: 55m of property, plant and equipment under construction and 22m 2013: 23m of motor vehicles.
Additions of other equipment totalling 50m 2013: 75m relate to 29m 2013: 23m of fixtures and fittings, 14m 2013: 44m of property, plant and equipment under construction and 7m 2013: 8m of motor vehicles.
Reclassifications to land and buildings in the year of 30m 2013: 3m from other equipment primarily relate to buildings, including the Groups new Belgium aircraft hangar, that were under construction in the prior year and which have been brought into use during the current year.
Land and buildings comprise freehold and long leasehold properties with net book values of 131m 2013: 116m and short leasehold properties with a net book value of 44m 2013: 50m respectively.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 30 September 2014 was 423m 2013: 315m.
This includes 79m 2013: 89m of yachts, motor boats and cruise ships, 325m 2013: 210m of aircraft, 5m 2013: 6m of land and buildings and 14m 2013: 10m of other assets, mainly vehicles.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment with restrictions on title, being pledged as security for bank loans, amounted to 101m 2013: 161m.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 149 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 12. investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments The Groups equity investment in its joint ventures and associates is recorded in the consolidated financial statements as follows: Share of net Share of assets of joint net assets of Total share ventures associates of net assets m m m At 1 October 2012 105 153 258 Share of profits before amortisation, interest and tax for the year 1 35 36 Share of interest and tax charge 8 7 15 Share of amortisation for the year 4 4 Loss profit after tax for the year 7 24 17 Additions 5 27 32 Disposals 5 9 14 Dividends paid 12 31 43 Foreign exchange 1 6 7 At 30 September 2013 85 158 243 Share of losses profits before amortisation, interest and tax for the year 3 32 29 Share of interest and tax charge 9 9 18 Share of amortisation for the year 3 3 Loss profit after tax for the year 12 20 8 Additions 27 27 Disposals 2 2 Dividends paid 1 10 11 Foreign exchange 8 11 19 At 30 September 2014 89 157 246 The Groups share of joint venture and associate profit after interest and tax was 8m 2013: 17m.
The result in the current year is shown before an impairment of 28m 2013: nil against loans made to the Groups joint venture operating in the Russian and Ukrainian source markets given the ongoing challenging trading conditions in that environment and 11m 2013: nil of losses not recognised for this joint venture, the latter amount being because it would have reduced the Groups carrying value for its share of the joint ventures net assets below zero.
Including the impairment of 28m, the share of losses of joint ventures and associates disclosed in the consolidated income statement is 20m 2013: 17m profit for the year.
impairment of financial assets year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Impairment of loans to Russian joint venture 28 Change in the fair value of available for sale financial assetsAir Berlin 1 impairment of financial assets 29 investments in and transactions with joint ventures During the year, the Group invested 18m into Bartu Turizm Yatirimlari Anonim Sirketi, a 50% joint venture of the Group, and 8m into Togebi Holding Limited, a 49% joint venture of the Group.
The Group also acquired a further 41% shareholding in the former joint venture Le Passage to India Tours and Travels Private Limited that it did not already own.
Further details of this acquisition are provided in Note 13.
In addition, the Group received a dividend of 7m 2013: 28m from Sunwing Travel Group Inc, a 25% associate of the Group.
The principal joint ventures and associates and the proportion of voting rights are shown below: Country of registration Name of company Proportion of voting rights held % Nature of business incorporation Joint ventures Travco Group Holding SAE 50.0 Incoming agency Egypt Atlantica Hellas SA 50.0 Hotel operator Greece Atlantica Hotels & Resorts Limited 49.9 Hotel operator Cyprus Togebi Holdings Limited 49.0 Tour operator Cyprus Bartu Turizm Yatirimlari Anonim Sirketi 50.0 Hotel operator Turkey Associates Sunwing Travel Group Inc 25.0 Tour operator Canada Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc 49.0 Hotel operator Barbados Grupo fide Inversiones Lunar S. R. L 49.0 Hotel operator Dominican Republic With the exception of Sunwing Travel Group Inc, the Groups interest is in the ordinary share capital of each joint venture and associate.
In respect of Sunwing Travel Group Inc, the Group holds a 100% interest in its Class Q non voting and Class Y Non-Voting Common shares and 25% interest in its Class Z Special Voting shares.
150 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12. investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments continued A summary of the Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of its associates and joint ventures for the year ended 30 September 2014 is shown below: Joint Joint ventures Associates total ventures Associates Total 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 m m m m m m Revenue 310 608 918 429 571 1,000 Operating costs 313 579 892 428 540 968 Operating loss profit 3 29 26 1 31 32 Net interest payable receivable 6 6 4 1 3 Loss profit before taxation 9 29 20 3 32 29 Taxation 3 9 12 4 8 12 Loss profit after taxation for the year 12 20 8 7 24 17 Non-current assets 145 255 400 122 183 305 Current assets 95 155 250 104 154 258 Total assets 240 410 650 226 337 563 Current liabilities 75 160 235 72 128 200 Non-current liabilities 87 93 180 69 51 120 Total liabilities 162 253 415 141 179 320 Net assets 78 157 235 85 158 243 Losses not recognised 11 11 total net assets 89 157 246 85 158 243 The above results exclude an impairment of 28m against loans made to the Groups joint venture operating in the Russian and Ukrainian source markets given the ongoing challenging trading conditions in that environment and 11m 2013: nil of losses not recognised for this joint venture as it would have reduced the Groups carrying value for its share of the joint ventures net assets below zero.
See Note 31 for details of loans with Togebi Holdings Limited.
togebi holdings Limited The Group has an agreement with S-Group Capital Management Limited SGCM, regarding Togebi Holdings Limited, a jointly-owned investment holding company, owned 51% by SGCM and 49% by the Group.
The joint venture owns subsidiary tour operators and travel agency groups in Russia and Ukraine.
All major decisions have to be agreed by both shareholders and under IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures the entity is accounted for as a joint venture.
SGCM is owned by a significant shareholder of TUI AG and is therefore considered to be a related party.
Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings are therefore considered to be related parties by virtue of SGCM being the joint venturer to this investment.
During the year ended 30 September 2014, TUI Travel Holdings Limited, a direct subsidiary of the Company, injected a further 8m of capital into Togebi Holdings Limited and provided one year interest-bearing loans totalling 10m for the purpose of providing short-term liquidity.
These loans have been included within the 28m impairment disclosed above.
After the year end, TUI Travel Holdings Limited provided further loans to Togebi Holdings Limited totalling 10m for the same purpose.
As the Group had a constructive obligation to lend this amount at the year end, the amount has been included within the 28m impairment noted above.
Sunwing travel Group inc The strategic venture with Sunwing Travel Group Inc is accounted for as an associate as the Group does not control or jointly control this business.
Other investments Trade Nonand listed consolidated investments entities Total m m m At 1 October 2012 46 20 66 Additions 1 1 30 30 Reclassification to current asset investments 7 7 Investments consolidated for the first time Change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets through other comprehensive income 1 1 Change in the fair value of assets held at fair value through profit and loss 5 5 At 30 September 2013 23 13 36 Acquisition through business combinations 1 1 Disposals 1 1 Investments consolidated for the first time 8 8 Change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets through other comprehensive income 1 1 Change in the fair value of assets held at fair value through profit and loss 1 1 Foreign exchange 1 1 At 30 September 2014 21 4 25 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 151 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Trade and listed investments at 30 September 2014 represent the Groups 3.8% 2013: 4.4% shareholding in Air Berlin PLC and a 10% 2013: 10% holding in Atlantica Leisure Group Limited.
The Groups investment in Air Berlin PLC is carried at fair value, determined by reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
Due to the prolonged decline in the equity share price of Air Berlin PLC, in accordance with IAS 39, a diminution in value of the investment of 1m, which was previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, has now been charged to the consolidated income statement and separately analysed within impairment of financial assets.
Non-consolidated entities are recorded at cost and reflect the Groups net investment held in subsidiaries which, due to the immaterial size of their revenues, result and financial position, have not been consolidated.
Balances between these entities and consolidated subsidiaries have not been eliminated.
13. Business combinations A Acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2014 Acquisitions were made in the year for a total investment value of 31m in order to expand business operations in line with the Groups growth strategy.
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 revised, incidental acquisition costs of 3m have been expensed within administrative expenses and disclosed as an acquisition related expense in the consolidated income statement in the year.
These acquisitions gave rise to provisional goodwill of 23m.
The one significant business acquired in the year, on 20 December 2013, was a further 41% of the voting equity shares of Le Passage to India Tours and Travels Private Limited LPTI, a tour operator and destination management company incorporated in India.
The Group previously owned 50% of LPTI and accounted for this as a joint venture.
The total consideration for this step acquisition was 20m, including 10m of non-cash consideration for the Groups share of LPTI that it previously owned.
Two other step acquisitions made during the year, in which the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the voting equity shares that the Group did not previously own, were of OFT Reisen Gmbh, incorporated in Germany, and Voukouvalidis Tours Tourism, SA, incorporated in Greece.
Other individually insignificant businesses include six German-based travel agency businesses and 51% of the voting share capital of Global Obi, S. L, known as ROI Back.
The relative size of the acquisitions made is set out in the table below: Total Total Consideration Number of consideration goodwill m acquisitions m m 0 5 10 11 9 5 1 20 14 total 11 31 23 The total fair value of the consideration for these acquisitions was 31m, comprising 19m initial cash consideration, 1m deferred consideration, and 11m non-cash consideration for the Groups share of the acquired joint ventures.
The total provisional net assets acquired are set out below: Fair value of net assets acquired m Intangible assets 12 Property, plant and equipment 2 Investments 1 Trade and other receivables 11 Cash 5 Current liabilities 19 Deferred tax liabilities 4 net assets 8 Total consideration 31 Less net assets acquired as above 8 total goodwill 23 All acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method, as required by IFRS 3 revised.
Certain non-significant fair value adjustments have necessarily been prepared on a provisional basis due to the recent timing of certain acquisitions.
Experience may result in revisions to fair values in the subsequent accounting period.
No material amount of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
There are no material accounting policy adjustments nor any significant differences between the book and fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
No single acquisition in the current year is considered material to goodwill and, as such, the provisional net asset table shown above has been presented as a total for all acquisitions in the year.
Residual goodwill A consistent process is undertaken for each acquisition to identify the fair value of separable assets and liabilities acquired, including the fair value of intangible assets, such as brands, order books, licences, customer relationships and other intangible assets that may exist.
The residual goodwill on acquisition represents the value of assets and earnings that do not form separable assets under IFRS 3 revised but nevertheless are expected to contribute to the future results of the Group.
Residual goodwill in respect of acquisitions in the current year predominantly relates to the acquisition of LPTI and represents the ability to control fully that business with a view to driving economies of scale and participating fully in the Indian market.
152 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13. Business combinations continued Acquisition related expenses IFRS 3 revised requires consideration that is contingent on future service by the vendor to be expensed over the service period and acquisition costs to be expensed as incurred.
In this respect, 10m 2013: 8m has been expensed in the year and included within the acquisition related expenses in the consolidated income statement.
A further 6m has been incurred as part of the forthcoming merger with TUI AG.
year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Acquisition related expenses in operating profit Amortisation of business combination intangibles 51 57 Merger related expenses 6 Other acquisition related expenses 3 2 Remuneration for post-combination services 7 6 Total 67 65 consideration payable Movements in deferred and contingent consideration in the year were as follows: Deferred Contingent consideration consideration Loan notes Total m m m m At 1 October 2013 5 7 1 13 Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions 1 1 Recognised in the year 5 5 Cash paid 1 6 7 Foreign exchange 1 1 At 30 September 2014 4 4 1 9 Contingent consideration payable is dependent on the results of the businesses over a number of future periods and in some cases is also dependent upon the previous owners or management of those businesses remaining in employment with the Group during the earnout period.
A 1m adjustment to amounts recognised in respect of prior year acquisitions has been made during the year.
This follows the latest assessment of expected earnings figures for these acquired entities, with the consideration payable being based upon a multiple of the appropriate earnings figures.
An estimate of the range of undiscounted amounts of contingent consideration payable for current and prior year acquisitions is listed below.
The expected contingent consideration for all acquisitions is calculated using multiples of underlying earnings, with some amounts payable dependent upon employment.
The amounts payable will be dependent on the results of the acquired businesses over the following periods: Range of consideration Basis of calculation Financial year Period for calculation payable Acquisition for consideration payable of acquisition of consideration m JBS Group, Inc Earnings and employment 2013 Up to 31 March 2015 0-3 LPTI Earnings and employment 2014 Up to 31 December 2018 0-6 Earnings alone and Other individually insignificant considerations payable earnings & employment 2013-2014 Up to 30 September 2016 0-2 total range of contingent consideration payable in respect of current and prior year acquisitions 0-11 B cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions Total cash flows in the year relating to acquisitions, including amounts paid in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on prior year acquisitions, are as follows: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 Cash paid m m Acquisitions in the current year excluding acquisition related expenses 19 12 Cash acquired with acquisitions 5 7 Net cash outflow in the year relating to current year acquisitions 14 5 Cash paid relating to prior year acquisitions 7 5 net cash outflow in the year relating to acquisitions 21 10 Acquisition related expenses charged to the income statement 3 2 total cash outflows in the year relating to acquisitions 24 12 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 153 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION c consolidated income statement If the results of the acquired businesses had been included in these consolidated financial statements from 1 October 2013 until each of their respective acquisition dates, the Groups revenue would have been approximately 35m higher and underlying earnings and profit before tax would have been approximately 1m higher.
Since the respective acquisition dates, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of 48m.
Underlying earnings and profit after tax were not materially impacted.
D Prior year revisions to fair values In the year ended 30 September 2013, the Group acquired various businesses for a total consideration of 30m.
The finalisation of the acquisition balance sheets for these businesses has not led to a material adjustment to goodwill presented in the 2013 accounts and therefore there is no restatement of the results for the year ended 30 September 2013 or balance sheet as at 30 September 2013 in respect of these finalisations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Intangible assets 1 2 132 145 131 143 Finance lease transactions 2 2 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 94 86 27 28 67 58 Financial instruments 19 29 14 13 5 16 Employee benefits 95 94 1 1 94 93 Other short-term temporary differences 129 138 133 114 4 24 Tax value of losses carried forward 69 91 69 91 total 407 440 309 303 98 137 Set off of deferred tax within the same jurisdiction 242 272 242 272 net deferred tax assets 165 168 67 31 98 137 The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses in individual tax jurisdictions based on forecast future taxable profits.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items reported at the applicable tax rate : 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Capital losses 3 3 Other tax losses 292 267 total losses 295 270 These assets have not been recognised principally because the Directors are not certain of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future.
Other tax losses are primarily trading losses and include 4m which are subject to a four year expiry period and 12m which expire within one year.
The balance of losses are not subject to time expiry and are available for utilisation against profits arising in future periods in the territories in which they have arisen.
There are no other unprovided deferred tax liabilities nor unrecognised deferred tax assets.
Movements in deferred taxation during the current year: Credited charged Recognised to the outside of the Balance at consolidated consolidated Balance at 1 October Arising on Released on income income Foreign 30 September 2013 acquisition disposal statement statement exchange 2014 m m m m m m m Intangible assets 143 2 1 10 3 131 Finance lease transactions 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 58 9 67 Financial instruments 16 1 4 17 3 5 Employee benefits 93 50 51 94 Other short-term temporary differences 24 1 35 23 15 4 Tax value of losses carried forward 91 20 2 69 total 137 4 1 82 57 11 98 154 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Movements in deferred taxation during the prior year are analysed as follows: Credited charged Recognised to the outside of the Balance at consolidated consolidated Balance at 1 October Arising on income income Foreign 30 September 2012 acquisition statement statement exchange 2013 m m m m m m Intangible assets 140 3 143 Finance lease transactions 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 39 19 58 Financial instruments 5 7 22 4 16 Employee benefits restated 105 3 3 14 2 93 Other short-term temporary differences 15 1 4 3 1 24 Tax value of losses carried forward 74 1 15 1 91 Total 96 5 28 11 3 137 Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Intangible asset temporary differences arise in respect of assets recognised on acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment temporary differences principally relate to tax depreciation in the UK, France and Germany.
Employee benefits temporary differences arise in respect of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities and future deductions available on the vesting of employee awards.
Financial instruments and foreign exchange temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments accounted for under IAS 39 and principally reflect the fair value at 30 September 2014 of cash flow hedging derivatives that will be settled against future transactions.
Other short-term temporary differences relate to operating expenses and related accruals and provisions for which a tax deduction has not yet been recognised.
15. inventories 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Marine inventories 19 22 Airline spares and operating equipment 23 20 Other operating inventories 14 15 total 56 57 Included within cost of sales in the year is a write-down of inventories of nil 2013: 3m to net realisable value.
16. trade and other receivables 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 nonNoncurrent current total Current current Total assets assets assets assets assets assets m m m m m m Trade receivables, gross 538 538 497 497 Less: provision for impairment 51 51 49 49 487 487 448 448 Amounts owed by related parties Note 31 56 30 86 55 36 91 Interest bearing other receivables 2 2 7 3 10 Other receivables 226 46 272 189 56 245 769 78 847 699 95 794 Prepayments 523 109 632 632 110 742 total 1,292 187 1,479 1,331 205 1,536 Other receivables include aircraft related receivables, lease and security deposits, purchase tax receivables and various end of season rebates due from suppliers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets, as defined in Note 1 E i, which are included within trade and other receivables by geographic region was: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m United Kingdom 138 141 Germany 90 101 France 93 82 Other European countries 200 207 Rest of the World 127 91 total 648 622 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 155 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Trade receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is shown below: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 49 49 Charge to the consolidated income statement 13 15 Utilisation of provision 11 15 Total 51 49 The ageing of the financial assets included within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date was: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 Gross Provision net Gross Provision Net m m m m m m Not overdue 515 11 504 479 5 474 Overdue 1-30 days 71 1 70 73 1 72 Overdue 31-90 days 44 1 43 52 1 51 Overdue 91-180 days 20 5 15 13 2 11 Overdue more than 180 days 49 33 16 54 40 14 Total 699 51 648 671 49 622 No individually material bad debt provision movements or charges have been recorded in the year.
Based on past experience and the post balance sheet period to the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements, the Group considers that the provision allowance recorded is adequate.
Within the provision there are no individually material amounts held.
Trade receivables not overdue and not impaired include amounts due from travel agencies, tour operators and hoteliers in respect of Mainstream, Specialist & Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors.
Provisions for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed by each underlying business unit where the debts arise and are based on local management experience.
Factors considered include the age of the receivable, previous experience with the counterparty and the economic environment in which the counterparty is located.
Credit exposure to individual customers booking holidays directly is limited as full payment is required before the issue of tickets and holiday departure.
In the case of travel services sold by third party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third parties, but this risk is also limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during the period over which the supplies are made.
The provision against overdue receivables of 40m 2013: 44m relates to gross receivables of 52m 2013: 74m.
There are 132m of receivables that are overdue and not impaired at 30 September 2014 2013: 118m.
Amounts owed by related parties are disclosed further in Note 31.
17. cash and cash equivalents 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Cash in hand 8 6 Cash at bank 391 920 Deposits 975 827 cash and cash equivalents 1,374 1,753 At 30 September 2014, cash and cash equivalents have been shown net of specific overdraft balances within the Groups pooling facilities where the Group has demonstrated both the intention and ability to exercise its right to settle these particular balances simultaneously.
At 30 September 2013, 491m of cash and cash equivalents within the Groups pooling facilities were shown gross of specific overdraft balances as the Group did not have the intention to settle those particular balances simultaneously at that point in time.
Cash and cash equivalents includes 50m 2013: 47m that is not available for immediate use by the Group.
This is made up of monies held to meet regulatory requirements, together with cash balances on short-term deposits, held on a restricted basis by the Groups captive insurance funds as part of their ongoing operations.
In addition to the above restricted cash balances, the Group is involved in a long-running VAT case with the Belgian government.
During the previous financial year a total of 116m was received from the Belgian government in relation to the disputed VAT for the years up to and including 30 September 2011, to stop the interest charge from accumulating should they lose the case eventually.
The outcome of the case remains uncertain and is not expected to be finalised in the near future.
Given the uncertainty, the Group continues to accrue VAT payable on the existing basis.
If the Group were to win the legal case, the amount recovered would be subject to corporation tax in Belgium.
This money, totalling 116m 90m as at 30 September 2014, is currently held on a bank deposit account in order that a collateralised bank guarantee can be provided to the Belgian government for the duration of the legal proceedings to give them assurance that they will be paid the money back should they win the case.
This receipt in 2013 of 116m 98m is shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows as the item fulfils the IAS 7 criteria for cash and cash equivalents and therefore the balance is included in cash and cash equivalents.
In view of the guarantee provided to the Belgian government, the Groups ability to use this cash is restricted.
156 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Other investments 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Trade investment 30 Regulatory deposits with a term exceeding 3 months 16 5 Other deposits with a term exceeding 3 months 2 1 Other investments 18 36 At 30 September 2013, the trade investment of 30m represented the portion of the Groups shareholding in The Airline Group Limited that was disposed of in March 2014 for total consideration of 31m.
Assets classified as held for sale 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Yachts and motor boats 1 Land and buildings 5 5 Other 2 4 Assets classified as held for sale 7 10 Assets held for sale are expected to be sold within 12 months.
20. interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m current liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 7 528 Finance leases 34 22 Convertible bonds 2 Other financial liabilities 46 44 total 89 594 At 30 September 2014, bank overdrafts have been shown net of specific cash balances within the Groups pooling facilities where the Group has demonstrated both the intention and ability to exercise its right to settle these particular balances simultaneously.
At 30 September 2013, 491m of bank overdrafts were shown gross of specific cash balances within the Groups pooling facilities where the Group did not have the intention to settle those particular balances simultaneously at that point in time.
Other financial liabilities mainly comprise the fair value of three put options written by the Group.
Two of these options are to the sole remaining non-controlling interest shareholder in LTUR Tourismus AG that may require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest shareholding totalling 30%.
The first put option over 20% of the shares may be exercised at any time until 31 December 2015.
A second put option written by the Group to the same non-controlling interest shareholder for the remaining 10% shareholding has no time limit.
The third put option is to the sole remaining partner of GeBeCo Gesellschaft fur internationale Begegnung und Cooperation mbH & Co. KG, a German registered partnership and is to purchase the remaining non-controlling interest of 49%.
This may be exercised at any time until 1 September 2017.
Details of the fair value of these options are included in Note 26 H. Fair value changes in the put option liability are included within financial expenses or financial income.
30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m non-current liabilities Bank loans 53 61 Loan notes 1 1 Finance leases 348 253 Convertible bonds 371 697 Other financial liabilities 1 total 774 1,012 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 157 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The bank loans and loan notes are repayable: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Within one year 7 37 Between one and five years 23 27 After more than five years 31 35 total 61 99 Certain loans are secured on the underlying assets of the company in whose name the borrowings are made, including all finance leases which are secured against their respective underlying assets.
The comparative figures for the maturity analysis of bank loans and loan notes payable after more than one year at 30 September 2013 have been reclassified to better reflect their maturity profile.
Further details of debts falling due after more than five years is given in Note F. Details of amounts owed to related parties are included in Note 31.
Finance lease liabilities relate primarily to the leasing of aircraft, boats, cruise ships and equipment.
The increase in amounts due after five years is driven by aircraft acquired in the year.
These are treated as finance leases based on the terms of the leases, which include purchase options.
Group obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are payable as follows: Minimum lease payments 30 September 30 September Principal interest 2014 Principal Interest 2013 m m m m m m in respect of aircraft, boats, cruise ships and equipment payable within: One year 34 14 48 22 11 33 One to five years 102 46 148 83 38 121 After five years 246 27 273 170 34 204 total 382 87 469 275 83 358 convertible bonds 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m 350m convertible bond 6.0% October 2014 2 336 400m convertible bond 4.9% April 2017 371 361 total 373 697 At 30 September 2014, the Group had two convertible bonds in issue, details of which are as follows: A 350m fixed rate 6% bond issued in October 2009.
The bond was convertible at the option of the holders, before or upon maturity in October 2014.
Conversion into ordinary shares occurred prior to 30 September 2014 in respect of 348m at par value of the original bond, the carrying value of which was 347m at the respective dates of conversion.
Further details are given in Note 24.
The balance of 2m was repaid in full on 5 October 2014.
A 400m fixed rate 4.9% bond was issued in April 2010.
The bond is convertible at the option of the holders, before or upon maturity in April 2017.
Conversion into ordinary shares will occur at a premium of 33% to the Groups share price on the date of issuance.
The Group holds an issuer call option to redeem the convertible bonds at their principal amounts, together with accrued interest, upon fulfilment of certain pre-determined criteria.
The fair value of this option was negligible at 30 September 2014.
The equity portion of the bonds of 67m 2013: 114m is included in the convertible bond reserve.
Reconciliation of face value to carrying amount 350m 400m Total convertible convertible convertible bond bond bonds m m m Convertible bond face value 350 400 750 Issue cost 9 9 18 Cash received 341 391 732 Equity portion 47 67 114 Interest accretion in prior years 35 33 68 Issue costs amortised in prior years 7 4 11 Carrying amount at 30 September 2013 336 361 697 Interest accretion 11 9 20 Amortisation of issue costs 2 1 3 Conversion 347 347 carrying amount at 30 September 2014 2 371 373 158 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21. current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 1,096 931 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 A 2 4 Other payables 188 177 Amounts owed to related parties Note 31 134 97 Other taxes and social security costs 88 87 Accruals and deferred income 1,503 1,709 Client money received in advance 1,847 1,768 total 4,858 4,773 Further disclosure of amounts owed to related parties is included in Note 31.
Provisions for liabilities Aircraft maintenance Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 October 2013 365 45 229 639 Provided in the year 111 14 109 234 Released in the year 3 2 19 24 Unwinding of discounted amount Note 5 5 1 6 Costs incurred 87 25 73 185 Foreign exchange 17 3 6 26 At 30 September 2014 374 29 241 644 Analysed as: Non-current 279 81 360 Current 95 29 160 284 374 29 241 644 At 30 September 2013 Analysed as: Non-current 266 96 362 Current 99 45 133 277 365 45 229 639 Aircraft maintenance In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other components based on the anticipated external costs of the next maintenance event calculated by reference to costs experienced and published manufacturers data.
The charge to the consolidated income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over the number of aircraft in the fleet.
The provision is expected to be fully utilised within 12 years of the balance sheet date depending upon the timing of maintenance events or end of lease dates where compensation is payable.
Restructuring Restructuring, which includes severance payments, relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are irrevocably committed.
Further details of significant restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 4.
The provision is expected to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 159 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other Other provisions relate to outstanding claims, litigation, obligations under denied boarding compensation regulations, onerous lease contracts that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is uncertain.
The Group provides for outstanding claims, including settlement expenses, using a consistent methodology based upon historical claims patterns, average claims amounts, external legal advice and future expectations.
The Group has a policy to mitigate the financial risk of claims, litigation and disaster through insurance with third party providers and the use of captive insurance companies.
The Groups exposure to risk is capped by single event and aggregate limits, with insurance in place for exposures above these limits.
At 30 September 2014, amounts totalling 65m 2013: 61m was provided for by the Groups captive insurance companies and included within other provisions.
Other provisions also includes an amount of 10m 2013: nil relating to the constructive obligation at 30 September 2014 for additional funding loans to be paid to Togebi Holdings Limited after the year end and which is included within the 28m impairment of Russian loans, as disclosed in Note 12.
A significant portion of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, while the remainder is expected to be utilised within one to four years of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims are estimated and are inherently uncertain.
23. non-current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 A 6 8 Other payables 44 37 Amounts owed to related parties Note 31 1 1 Accruals and deferred income 44 25 Client money received in advance 9 8 total 104 79 24. called up share capital 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Fully paid and issued 1,133,842,328 2013: 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each 114 112 Fully paid but not yet issued 83,710,258 2013: nil ordinary shares of 10p each 8 total 1,217,552,586 2013: 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each 122 112 Following the receipt of irrevocable conversion notices from convertible bond holders during August 2014, 15,831,658 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued in September 2014 for a total consideration of 55m, representing the carrying value of the convertible bond extinguished at the date of conversion.
As such, no cash was received on the issuance of these shares.
The nominal value of the ordinary shares issued was 2m.
53m was credited to the share premium account on the issuance of these shares.
Following the receipt of irrevocable conversion notices from convertible bond holders in September 2014, 83,710,258 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued between 1 and 7 October 2014 for a total consideration of 292m, representing the carrying value of the convertible bond extinguished.
No cash was received on the issuance of these shares.
As the date of receipt of conversion notices represents the date of the extinguishment of the convertible bond liability, the 83,710,258 ordinary shares are deemed paid up in accordance with Section 583 2 3 of Companies Act 2006, notwithstanding the fact that they were issued in October 2014.
The nominal value of these ordinary shares of 8m, together with share premium of 284m, has been recognised in called up share capital and the share premium account respectively.
As described more fully in Note 36, the ultimate parent company, TUI AG, is the beneficial owner of 53.72% 2013: 54.48% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 September 2014.
At 30 September 2014, 7,451,101 shares 2013: 8,047,575 shares were held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
Based on the 30 September 2014 closing mid share price of 3.89 2013: 3.68 the value of shares held was 29m 2013: 30m.
Details of dividends debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.
Whilst the Company has the authority to purchase its own shares in the open market, it has not done so in either the current or prior years.
160 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25. capital and reserves Other reserves Convertible equity NonCalled up bond Merger Translation Hedging Accumulated holders controlling total share capital reserve reserve reserve reserve losses of parent interests equity Note m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 October 2012 112 88 2,523 129 25 1,262 1,565 44 1,609 Profit for the year restated 51 51 3 54 Other comprehensive income loss for the year Foreign exchange translation 56 1 10 47 4 43 Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes restated 6 C 11 11 11 Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes restated 8 iii 14 14 14 Cash flow hedges: movement in fair value 26 J 76 76 76 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 26 J 5 5 5 Tax on cash flow hedges 8 iii 22 22 22 Available for sale financial assets: movement in fair value 12 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income loss for the year restated 56 58 34 36 4 40 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 56 58 17 15 1 14 transactions with owners Share-based payment charge for the year 15 15 15 Repurchase of own shares 16 16 16 Dividends 9 130 130 2 132 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 2 2 2 Change in deferred tax rate on equity portion of convertible bond 3 3 3 At 30 September 2013 112 91 2,523 185 83 1,378 1,450 41 1,491 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 161 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other reserves Called up Share Convertible equity Nonshare premium bond Merger Translation Hedging Accumulated holders controlling total capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve losses of parent interests equity Note m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 October 2013 112 91 2,523 185 83 1,378 1,450 41 1,491 Profit for the year 183 183 4 187 Other comprehensive loss income for the year Foreign exchange translation 158 4 6 160 1 159 Foreign exchange gains recycled through the consolidated income statement 1 1 1 Remeasurement of the defined benefit pension scheme 6 C 192 192 192 Tax on remeasurement of the defined benefit pension scheme 8 iii 45 45 45 Cash flow hedges: movement in fair value 26 J 29 29 1 28 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 26 J 113 113 113 Tax on cash flow hedges 8 iii 17 17 17 Available for sale financial asset: movement in fair value 12 1 1 1 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 12 1 1 1 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 159 71 153 241 2 239 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 159 71 30 58 6 52 transactions with owners Share-based payment charge for the year 24 24 24 Repurchase of own shares 33 33 33 Dividends 9 150 150 3 153 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 4 4 1 3 Conversion of convertible bonds net of deferred tax 24 10 337 24 47 370 370 At 30 September 2014 122 337 67 2,523 26 12 1,464 1,599 45 1,644 Share premium account Following the receipt of irrevocable conversion notices from convertible bond holders during August and September 2014, 99,541,916 ordinary shares of 10p were issued in September and October 2014 for a total consideration of 347m, representing the carrying value of the convertible bond extinguished at the dates of conversion.
The nominal value of the ordinary shares issued was 10m and 337m was recognised in the share premium account on the issuance of these shares.
convertible bond reserve The convertible bond reserve comprises the equity element of the convertible bonds and the related portion of the bonds issue costs see Note 20.
The equity element is calculated in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 1 E ii and is presented net of deferred tax.
47m has been transferred from the convertible bond reserve to the profit and loss reserve on the conversion and extinguishment of the equity element of the convertible bond.
Other reserves Details of dividends to equity holders of the Parent Company which have been debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9.
Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the Groups presentation currency are recorded in the translation reserve.
The hedging reserve records the portion of the cumulative gains or losses on hedging instruments in cash flow hedges that are determined as effective.
Gains or losses on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedge reserve and are recycled to the consolidated income statement in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 1 F. 162 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments A treasury risk overview The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: Market risk in respect of foreign currency rate risk, jet fuel price risk and interest rate risk : Liquidity risk in respect of the Groups ability to meet its liabilities : Credit risk in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group : and Capital risk in respect of its capital structure and cost of capital.
The Groups key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel prices.
Currency risk results from the substantial cross-border element of the Groups trading and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses.
The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts.
The Groups exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Groups floating rate aircraft leases and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk and liquidity risk are considered in Notes 26 D and 26 F respectively.
Capital management, including capital risk and cash conversion, is considered in Notes 34 and 27 B respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework and for ensuring that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces.
These form part of the Groups overall Risk Management Framework the framework.
Incorporated within the frameworks terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness of those policies.
Group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis.
The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority applied to approving and to dealing the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures.
Transactions are only undertaken to hedge underlying exposures.
Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams and receives regular cash flow forecasts and, where relevant, jet fuel usage forecasts from each business unit to ensure hedging instruments match the currency or fuel requirements of each operating business.
Reports and forecasts for the Group, showing hedging instruments and forecast requirements, are submitted monthly to the GMB and to each Board meeting of TUI Travel PLC.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions throughout the year.
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
B currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses which are principally Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona.
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is Winter and Summer, with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure forecast sales and purchases and related assets and liabilities for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts and option based instruments, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level, principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan balances and deposits.
The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and, as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The following significant exchange rates were used to translate to presentation currency excluding the impact of hedged transactions and are illustrative of the rates applied during the current and prior year: Average rate Mid spot rate year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 1 GBP equivalent 2014 2013 2014 2013 US Dollar 1.657 1.561 1.619 1.615 Euro 1.221 1.190 1.287 1.196 Swedish Krona 10.990 10.225 11.767 10.355 As at 30 September 2014, the Group has hedged forecast transactions for $4.0bn 2013: $4.3bn and 1.5bn 2013: 1.3bn for periods up until Winter 2015 principally relating to Winter 2014 and Summer 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 163 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION c commodity risk Fuel commodity risk arises from the Groups operation of aircraft.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being Winter and Summer, with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using predominantly commodity swaps or options, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
As at 30 September 2014, the Group has hedged transactions for fuel of 1.7m metric tonnes 2013: 1.7m metric tonnes for periods up until Winter 2015.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 26 I.
D credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for treasury and operating related credit exposures.
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board.
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The only exception to this at 30 September 2014 was the 116m 2014: 90m, 2013: 98m received from the Belgian government in relation to the long running VAT case Note 17.
This money is currently deposited with two 2013: one financial institutions to enable a collateralised bank guarantee to be provided to the Belgian government.
The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties where applicable as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.
Material financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with a strong credit rating of A1 P1 or A2 P2.
Loans and other receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no material concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
The maximum credit exposure to the carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below.
carrying value Carrying value 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Trade and other receivables Note 16 648 622 Cash and cash equivalents Note 17 1,374 1,753 Derivatives contracts used for hedging Note 26 I 160 44 Trade and listed investments Note 12 21 23 Other investments Note 18 18 36 total 2,221 2,478 The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date and by geographic region as well as their ageing is disclosed in Note 16.
Trade and other receivables are shown net of provision for bad and doubtful debts of 51m 2013: 49m.
Cash equivalents and other investments principally comprise money market deposits and other short-term investments.
The investments are predominantly with counterparties with a strong credit rating of A1 P1 or A2 P2.
At 30 September 2014, approximately 20% 2013: 42% of the Groups unrestricted cash and cash equivalents was invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom, and 63% 2013: 38% was based with counterparties based in the Republic of Ireland.
Trade and other receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
Prepayments for hotel accommodation, whilst not meeting the definition of a financial asset under IAS 39, give rise to a risk similar to credit risk due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment through full delivery of the related goods and services.
From time to time prepayments can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which are based overseas.
The carrying amount of prepayments which are presented within current and non-current assets forms their maximum credit exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral held by the Group.
Where appropriate, the Group obtains security collateral over the related accommodation property to mitigate credit risk.
At 30 September 2014, prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was 102m 2013: 108m.
164 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued e interest rate risk The Group manages interest rate risk by fixing interest rates for the majority of the Groups longer term debt.
Variable interest generally applies to shorter term debt and that which fluctuates with working capital flows.
Variable rate interest on pooled bank overdrafts is offset by similar credit interest on cash held elsewhere in the currency pools.
The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the Groups fixed floating rate aircraft and cruise ship leases and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Groups loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the exception of the other financial liabilities which are carried at fair value as follows: carrying Carrying amount amount Range of 30 September 30 September Nominal years 2014 2013 Financial instrument Currency interest rate of maturity m m Convertible bonds Note 20 Sterling 4.9% 6.0% 2014 2017 373 697 Secured bank loans Sterling 1.2% 3.7% 2014 2018 6 19 EUR 1.8% 2014 2027 15 16 USD 3.0% 2014 2024 38 60 Unsecured bank loans EUR 1.1% 6.8% 2014 2015 1 3 60 98 Finance leases EUR 1.3 8.4% 2014 2046 64 74 USD 1.5% 5.5% 2014 2024 317 198 MAD 5.9% 6.5% 2014 2017 1 2 AUD 7.2% 11.8% 2014 2015 1 382 275 Loan notes USD 6.5% 2016 1 1 Other financial liabilities EUR 0% 5.0% 2014 2019 47 44 Bank overdrafts EUR 0.5% 2014 491 total interest-bearing liabilities 863 1,606 Analysed between: Fixed rate instruments 838 1,057 Variable rate instruments 25 549 863 1,606 The interest rate applicable to bank overdrafts in 2013 was the amount charged in respect of the balance shown.
Any balances offsetting this in the Groups pooling arrangements were credited at a similar rate to the entities concerned.
F Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.
The Groups liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and January.
To manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which, at 30 September 2014, principally comprised the following main sources of long-term debt funding: The external bank revolving credit facilities totalling 1,225m 2013: 1,120m plus bonding and letter of credit facilities totalling 175m 2013: 185m which all mature in June 2018.
From these facilities, 120m has been utilised for letter of credit purposes at 30 September 2014 2013: 136m : A 400m convertible bond due April 2017 issued in April 2010: and A 150m bank syndicated facility which matures in April 2016 and which is only available in the event of a requirement to redeem the Groups 2017 convertible bond.
The external bank revolving credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Groups cash flows and liquidity.
Cash positions, liquidity and available facility headroom are monitored daily by the Group Treasury Department.
The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
This is the case in the scenario that the merger with TUI AG does not proceed, which is considered unlikely, and the scenario once the merger is completed, as TUI AG has agreed to provide facilities to enable, based on current expectations, TUI Travel PLC and its subsidiaries to continue for the forseeable future.
Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in the external credit facilities, were met at the year end and throughout the year.
Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease rentals charge EBITDAR divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Both covenants are measured on an underlying basis as defined in Note 1 B ii.
In respect of the delivery of new aircraft, the Groups established strategy is to refinance new aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore the Group does not forecast to use internal cash resources for new aircraft purchases.
Details of aircraft purchase commitments at the year end are given in Note 29.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 165 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date: Between Between Carrying Contractual Within one and two and More than amount cash flows one year two years five years five years 30 September 2014 m m m m m m non-derivative financial liabilities Convertible bonds 373 460 20 20 420 Secured bank loans 59 71 7 12 17 35 Unsecured bank loans 1 1 1 Finance leases 382 469 48 40 108 273 Loan notes 1 1 1 Other financial liabilities 47 47 46 1 Trade and other payables 2,710 2,710 2,678 30 2 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 201 207 189 17 1 total 3,774 3,966 2,989 121 548 308 Between Between Carrying Contractual Within one and two and More than amount cash flows one year two years five years five years 30 September 2013 m m m m m m non-derivative financial liabilities Convertible bonds 697 860 41 380 439 Bank overdrafts 491 491 491 Secured bank loans 95 115 37 10 25 43 Unsecured bank loans 3 3 2 1 Finance leases 275 358 33 36 85 204 Loan notes 1 1 1 Other financial liabilities 44 44 44 Trade and other payables 2,733 2,733 2,687 46 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 173 168 149 19 Total 4,512 4,773 3,484 492 550 247 The timing reflected in the tables above is based on the first date that the Group can be contractually required to settle the liability.
In respect of revolving credit facilities, the timing of repayments will vary.
Trade and other payables exclude customers monies received in advance, deferred income, contingent consideration and other non-contractual payables.
Debts falling due for repayment after five years with an aggregate value at 30 September 2014 of 405m 2013: 297m comprise secured bank loans of 53m 2013: 57m and finance leases of 352m 2013: 240m, all of which are payable in either monthly, quarterly or six-monthly instalments.
These are secured on the aircraft, cruise ships and buildings to which the borrowings relate.
At 30 September 2014, the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 1,301m 2013: 1,192m, comprising letters of credit, guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings.
Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Groups financing arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements.
The Group was in full compliance with its financial covenants throughout both years.
Undrawn facilities are analysed as follows: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Expiring: In more than one year but less than five years 1,301 1,192 G Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities The tables below set out the Groups IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities: Financial Derivative assets and financial liabilities at fair instruments Financial value through used in hedge Available for sale Loans and liabilities at Total profit and loss accounting financial assets receivables amortised cost carrying value At 30 September 2014 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,374 1,374 Borrowings due within one year 43 46 89 Borrowings due after more than one year 774 774 Derivative assets 17 143 160 Derivative liabilities 42 159 201 Other financial assets 5 16 666 687 Other financial liabilities 4 2,706 2,710 total 67 16 16 2,040 3,526 1,553 166 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued Financial Derivative assets and financial liabilities at fair instruments Financial value through used in hedge Available for sale Loans and liabilities at Total profit and loss accounting financial assets receivables amortised cost carrying value At 30 September 2013 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,753 1,753 Borrowings due within one year 41 553 594 Borrowings due after more than one year 1,012 1,012 Derivative assets 2 42 44 Derivative liabilities 26 147 173 Other financial assets 35 18 628 681 Other financial liabilities 7 2,726 2,733 total 37 105 18 2,381 4,291 2,034 Other financial assets comprise trade receivables, other receivables and other investments which are receivable within and after more than one year.
Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable within and after more than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost mainly comprising convertible bonds, bank loans and finance lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 5.
Further information in relation to changes in other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are shown in Note 12.
Offsetting The table below shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are subject to offset in the Groups balance sheet and the impact of enforceable master netting or similar agreements.
Contracts for derivative financial instruments are governed by standardised master netting agreements creating a right of set-off only if certain specified future events occur.
As this conditional right to set-off is not enforceable in the ordinary course of business, the derivative financial assets and liabilities are shown on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet at the reporting dates.
Gross amounts of Gross amounts of Net amounts of recognised recognised financial assets Related amounts not financial assets financial liabilities liabilities presented set off in the balance liabilities assets set off in the balance sheet sheet Net amount m m m m m Financial assets as at 30 September 2014 Derivative financial assets 160 160 125 35 Trade receivables 648 648 648 Trade and listed investments 21 21 21 Cash and cash equivalents 4,155 2,781 1,374 1,374 Other investments 18 18 18 total 5,002 2,781 2,221 125 2,096 Financial liabilities as at 30 September 2014 Derivative financial liabilities 201 201 125 76 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,597 2,781 816 816 Other financial liabilities 47 47 47 Trade and other payables 2,710 2,710 2,710 total 6,555 2,781 3,774 125 3,649 net 1,553 1,553 1,553 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 167 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gross amounts of Gross amounts of Net amounts of recognised recognised financial assets Related amounts not financial assets financial liabilities liabilities presented set off in the balance liabilities assets set off in the balance sheet sheet Net amount m m m m m Financial assets as at 30 September 2013 Derivative financial assets 44 44 44 Trade receivables 622 622 622 Trade and listed investments 23 23 23 Cash and cash equivalents 4,077 2,324 1,753 1,753 Other investments 36 36 36 total 4,802 2,324 2,478 44 2,434 Financial liabilities as at 30 September 2013 Derivative financial liabilities 173 173 44 129 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,886 2,324 1,562 1,562 Other financial liabilities 44 44 44 Trade and other payables 2,733 2,733 2,733 total 6,836 2,324 4,512 44 4,468 net 2,034 2,034 2,034 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include amounts set off of 2,781m 2013: 2,324m as part of a master netting agreement with Citibank International Limited.
Balances held within this balance are notionally pooled.
h Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2014 and at 30 September 2013, are as follows: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m cash and cash equivalents 1,374 1,374 1,753 1,753 Borrowings Convertible bonds 373 476 697 883 Bank loans and overdrafts 60 60 589 589 Loan notes 1 1 1 1 Finance lease liabilities 382 381 275 280 Other financial liabilities 47 47 44 44 Derivative financial instruments Forward exchange contracts used for hedging assets 159 159 36 36 liabilities 137 137 148 148 Commodity contracts used for hedging assets 1 1 8 8 liabilities 63 63 25 25 Interest rate swap used for hedging liability 1 1 Other financial assets Trade and other receivables 648 648 622 622 Trade and listed investments 21 21 23 23 Other investments 18 18 36 36 Other financial liabilities Current trade and other payables 2,678 2,678 2,687 2,687 Non-current trade and other payables 32 32 46 46 total 1,553 1,655 2,034 2,225 The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1 W. Fair value measurements IFRS 13 requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements of financial instruments through the use of a three level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The levels can be broadly described as follows: Level 1 use of unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 use of observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 3 use of inputs not based on observable market data but reflecting managements own assumptions about pricing the asset or liability.
168 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued The Group maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available.
If there are multiple inputs available that fall into different levels of the hierarchy, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the lowest level input.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding convertible bonds and finance lease liabilities, measured at fair value at 30 September 2014 are categorised as follows: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 30 September 2014 m m m m Assets Trade, listed and other investments 10 11 21 Derivative financial instruments 160 160 Total assets 10 160 11 181 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 201 201 Other financial liabilities 50 50 Total liabilities 201 50 251 total 10 41 39 70 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 30 September 2013 m m m m Assets Trade, listed and other investments 11 42 53 Derivative financial instruments 44 44 Total assets 11 44 42 97 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 173 173 Other financial liabilities 48 48 Total liabilities 173 48 221 total 11 129 6 124 The movements in level 3 instruments, measured on a recurring basis, for the year ended 30 September 2014 are as follows: Trade Other Total and other financial level 3 investments liabilities instruments m m m At 1 October 2012 36 41 5 Cash settlement of contingent consideration 2 2 Purchase of trade investment 1 1 Increase in value of trade investment 5 5 Charged to income statement 6 6 Foreign exchange recognised in other comprehensive income 3 3 At 1 October 2013 42 48 6 Cash settlement of contingent consideration 3 3 Sale of trade investment 30 30 Recognised in income statement 1 5 6 At 30 September 2014 11 50 39 trade and listed investments As at 30 September 2014, 11m 2013: 42m of trade and other investments were categorised as level 3 instruments.
These consist of the Groups 5m 2013: 35m investment in The Airline Group Limited and other trade investments in the equity of unlisted companies of 6m 2013: 7m.
In the year ended 30 September 2013, of the 35m in respect of The Airline Group Limited, 30m was disclosed as an other investment in current assets Note 18 and 5m was disclosed as an other investment in non-current assets Note 12.
The Groups investment in The Airline Group Limited is valued using the offer received during 2013 for the majority of the investment, the disposal of which occurred in March 2014.
The level 1 trade investment mainly consists of the Groups holding in Air Berlin PLC.
See Note 12 for further details of this investment.
Derivative assets and liabilities Derivatives are valued in the market using discounted cash flow techniques.
These techniques incorporate level 2 inputs, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
These market inputs are used in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instruments term, notional amount, volatility, discount rate and taking credit risk into account.
As significant inputs to the valuation are observable in external markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 169 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other financial liabilities The principal element of the put options to acquire the remaining equity stake in LTUR Tourismus AG 38m 2013: 38m is classified as an other financial liability with changes in fair value included in operating profit.
They have been valued using the minimum price stipulated in the contracts plus adjustments based on estimated operating results in the three years preceding any exercise of the options.
Contingent consideration of 4m 2013: 7m is also measured at fair value based on the relevant contracts.
A new put option recognised in the year is to the sole remaining partner of GeBeCo Gesellschaft fur internationale Begegnung und Cooperation mbH & Co. KG, a German registered partnership 5m 2013: nil.
This has been valued using the price stipulated in the contract, based upon the two years profit before tax, plus a portion of retained earnings, preceding any exercise of the option.
There are no reasonably possible changes in assumptions which would materially alter the value of these level 3 financial instruments.
convertible bonds The fair value of the convertible bonds for disclosure purposes was 476m 2013: 883m and is derived from quoted market prices from Bloomberg.
As such, the convertible bonds are categorised as level 1 financial instruments.
Finance leases The fair value of finance leases for disclosure purposes was 381m 2013: 280m and is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
This market rate of interest for finance leases is determined by reference to similar lease agreements.
These finance leases are categorised as level 3 financial instruments.
transfers between levels of financial instruments The Group transfers financial instruments between different levels in the fair value hierarchy when, as a result of an event or change in circumstances, the valuation methodology applied in determining their fair values alters in such a way that it meets the definition of a different level.
There were no transfers between the level 1, level 2 and level 3 fair value measurement categories in the period.
i Derivative instruments At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows: 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 Assets Liabilities total Assets Liabilities Total Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value m m m m m m cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forwards 142 96 46 34 122 88 Commodity options 1 1 Commodity swaps 1 63 62 8 24 16 143 159 16 42 147 105 Derivatives not hedge accounted Interest rate swap 1 1 Foreign exchange forwards 17 41 24 2 26 24 total 160 201 41 44 173 129 Analysed as: Current 130 186 56 41 147 106 Non-current 30 15 15 3 26 23 total 160 201 41 44 173 129 Gains losses on derivatives not hedge accounted have been recognised within net financial expenses within the consolidated income statement.
The gain recognised in the year ended 30 September 2014 of 73m 2013: loss of 114m has been offset by an equal and opposite loss 2013: gain due to the revaluation of non-functional currency balance sheet exposures.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives are expected to occur.
Future cash flows have been estimated based on spot rates and prices at 30 September 2014 and have been shown net for each instrument.
Projected cash flows Between Between Less than one and two and Over one year two years five years five years 30 September 2014 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 126 29 2 126 29 2 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 136 3 Commodity swaps 53 14 1 189 17 1 total 63 12 1 170 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued Projected cash flows Between Between Less than one and two and Over one year two years five years five years 30 September 2013 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 47 3 Commodity swaps 11 5 1 58 8 1 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 142 19 Commodity swaps 7 149 19 total 91 11 1 ineffectiveness Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year.
Ineffectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2014 comprised a charge of 1m 2013: 3m relating to fuel hedging and this is included within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
In respect of foreign exchange hedging ineffectiveness, this comprised a gain of 1m 2013: 1m which is included in cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
J Amounts recognised in equity The following amounts have been recognised in equity during the year: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m hedging reserve Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 28 76 Fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to the consolidated income statement 113 5 85 81 The fair value loss of 113m on cash flow hedges recycled to the consolidated income statement during 2014 arose primarily due to Sterling strengthening against the Euro and the US dollar, as well as the Euro strengthening against the US dollar, when comparing the average achieved hedge rate and the average spot rate at maturity of the derivative contracts.
This spread was larger in 2014 compared to 2013.
The fair value gain of 5m on cash flow hedges recycled to the consolidated income statement during 2013 arose primarily due to Sterling weakening against the Euro and the US dollar, when comparing the average achieved hedge rate and the average spot rate at maturity of the derivative contracts.
Deferred tax on the above items recognised outside of the consolidated income statement is shown in Note 8 iii.
The fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to the consolidated income statement is recognised within cost of sales.
K Sensitivity analysis This sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
This sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions: changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments: changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at fair value: changes in market interest, currency and fuel rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and the majority of hedges are expected to be highly effective: and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the consolidated income statement and equity of a 1% 100 basis points difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel prices, from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant, these being considered to be reasonably possible changes to interest rates, Sterling rates and fuel prices.
interest rate risk Under the above assumptions, a 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a less than 1m increase in interest expense in the consolidated income statement and equity 2013: increase of less than 1m.
A 100 basis points reduction in interest rates is not considered reasonably possible.
currency risk The Group hedges substantially all of its foreign currency exposures not denominated in the functional currency of individual Group companies.
This mitigates the sensitivity impact of fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 171 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The vast majority of hedging instruments used by the Group qualify for hedge accounting with the fair value movements booked to equity.
However, the Group uses structured foreign exchange instruments to hedge a small proportion of its Euro and US Dollar requirements.
As these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, the fair value movements are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
A 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against the Euro and US Dollar on these instruments would have reduced profit before tax by 5m 2013: 21m or increased it by 5m 2013: 21m respectively.
Similarly, under the above assumptions, a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all principal exchange rates the Group is exposed to would have reduced profit before tax by 20m 2013: reduced profit before tax by 16m or increased it by 25m 2013: increased profit before tax by 18m respectively.
Equity before tax would have decreased by 210m 2013: 226m or increased by 257m 2013: 276m respectively.
Fuel price risk The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are more or less volatile.
Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy and appropriate pricing adjustments.
Equity before tax would increase by 88m 2013: 97m, or decrease by 88m 2013: 96m respectively.
Movements in cash and net debt and cash conversion A Movements in cash and net debt Cash Amounts due Other and cash Convertible to related Bank loans & Loan Finance financial Restricted Available net equivalents bonds parties overdrafts notes leases liabilities total cash debt cash m m m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2012 830 675 10 23 1 186 43 108 34 142 Cash movement 390 1 41 26 2 378 111 267 Non-cash movement 491 22 9 524 113 1 160 160 Foreign exchange 42 1 2 2 37 37 1,753 697 589 1 275 44 147 145 2 At 30 September 2013 Cash movement 198 36 23 4 253 2 251 Non-cash movement 491 324 491 132 2 190 190 Foreign exchange 86 2 2 3 79 7 72 At 30 September 2014 1,374 373 60 1 382 47 511 140 371 As set out in Note 17, cash and cash equivalents included 140m 2013: 145m of restricted cash.
The 2014 non-cash movement of 324m 2013: 22 m in convertible bonds relates to the net amount of the conversion of 348m at par value of the 2014 350m bond issued October 2009 converting during the year and accretion of the equity portion of the convertible bonds up to the earlier of the conversion or 30 September 2014.
The 2014 non-cash movement of 491 m 2013: 491m between cash and cash equivalents and bank loans and overdrafts reflects the impact of specific overdraft balances being presented on a net basis, previously shown gross.
Other non-cash movements in 2014 in finance leases predominantly relate to advances in respect of additions to aircraft within property, plant and equipment.
B cash conversion non-GAAP measure The Group targets conversion of underlying profit before tax to free cash flow of at least 70%.
Underlying as a measure of operating profit is defined in Note 1 B ii.
Free cash flow is defined as the movement in available cash net of debt during the year before restricted cash, dividend payments, acquisitions and business disposal proceeds, net of pre-delivery payments for aircraft and acquisitions of shares for share-based payments.
Calculations for the current and prior year are: Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated Note m m Underlying operating profit Consolidated income statement 612 589 Net financial expense 5 137 128 Underlying profit before tax 475 461 Movement in available cash net of debt 27 A 251 267 Add: Dividends paid to ordinary and non-controlling interests Consolidated statement of cash flows 153 132 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired Consolidated statement of cash flows 21 10 Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments 27 14 Net pre-delivery payments for aircraft 11 18 4 Proceeds from other investments Consolidated statement of cash flows 31 Free cash flow 403 427 cash conversion 85% 93% The figures for 2013 have been restated following the adoption of IAS 19 revised.
172 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Operating lease commitments Total Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows: Aircraft, ships, Aircraft, ships, Land and yachts and Land and yachts and buildings equipment buildings equipment 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases falling due: Within one year 258 367 265 383 Between one and five years 584 974 527 770 Later than five years 222 454 226 427 total 1,064 1,795 1,018 1,580 Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings comprise commitments in respect of the Groups retail estate, its hotel estate, including those commitments that are required to be disclosed as leases under IFRIC 4, and its office premises.
The future commitment under the Groups floating rate aircraft operating leases at 30 September 2014 was 61m 2013: 80m and is included within the table above.
In total the Group operates 119 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2014 2013: 123 aircraft, a minority of which contain purchase options.
Yachts are held on operating leases in TUI Marine as part of the Groups Sunsail and The Moorings fleets, whilst cruise ships are held on operating leases in the UK & Ireland source market.
29. capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are as follows: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m contracted but not provided for: Intangible assets 6 3 total 6 3 In addition to the above items, at the year end the Group had contracted to purchase 72 2013: 79 aircraft with initial deliveries to start in the first quarter of the financial year 2014 15.
At list price, the total order value was US$9,135m 2013: US$9,772m before discounts.
The Group intends to finance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore does not expect to use its own cash resources for their purchase.
The Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates at 30 September 2014 was 28m 2013: 13m.
30. contingent liabilities The Group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.
The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
See Note 8 for more details on contingent tax exposures and Note 22 for details on provisions.
Related party transactions Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in carrying out its ordinary business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate parent company, TUI AG.
These companies either purchased or delivered services to companies in the Group.
convertible bond In April 2010, the Company issued a 400m fixed rate 4.9% convertible bond, of which Antium Finance Ltd, an independent special purpose company, subscribed for 50%.
TUI AG entered into a forward purchase agreement with Antium Finance Ltd for these 200m convertible bonds, in order to prevent dilution of its majority shareholding.
TUI AG is entitled to receive the interest coupon on these bonds and to repurchase these bonds by July 2016 at the latest.
The latest repurchase date was extended from July 2014 to July 2016 through a new contractual arrangement dated 10 October 2013.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 173 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION trademark Licence Agreement The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI Tourism Group in relation to TUI Tourisms use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AGs portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI Tourisms business.
Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02% of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee under the relevant trademarks measured over a three year period.
Total licence fees charged for the year ended 30 September 2014 were 3m 2013: 3m.
Each licences standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on the same terms.
hotel Framework Agreement TUI Deutschland has signed an exclusivity agreement with TUI AGs Robinson hotel portfolio.
Under the terms of the agreement, TUI Deutschland paid 10m in the financial year ending 30 September 2013, 12m in the financial year ending 30 September 2014 and will pay 12m per year thereafter.
The contract also contains performance related elements linked to occupancy rates under which either more can be paid or refunds received.
Details of transactions with related parties during the year and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below: Income Expenses including interest year ended Year ended year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Related party Ultimate parent TUI AG 4 8 4 4 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 1 1 312 289 Other subsidiaries of TUI AG 15 13 10 9 Joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 18 10 125 85 Joint ventures of the Group 15 41 151 132 Associates of the Group 21 15 17 14 total 74 88 619 533 Income earned from TUI AG includes recharges of administrative costs of 4m 2013: 4m.
The prior year also included airline revenue of 4m.
Income earned from hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG and joint ventures of the Group includes accommodation and destination services provided by the Group to the related entities.
The income relating to the Groups joint ventures includes 13m 2013: 32m from Togebi Holdings Limited, the Groups joint venture in Russia, and its subsidiaries.
Income received from associates of the Group principally represents aircraft sublease income from Sunwing, as detailed in Note 7.
Expenses paid to TUI AG includes interest expense of 1m 2013: 1m.
The remaining expenses paid to TUI AG of 3m 2013: 3m relates to aircraft lease costs and licence fees.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, 10m 2013: 10m of the interest payable in the year in respect of the Groups convertible bonds has been paid to Antium Finance Ltd, a special purpose company which purchased 200m of the Groups 4.9% convertible bond.
TUI AG remains entitled to receive the interest on these bonds from Antium Finance Ltd.
Expenses relating to hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG and joint ventures and associates of the Group relate to travel related services, primarily made up of accommodation and destination services costs.
Related party receivables 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 current non-current total Current Non-current Total assets assets assets assets assets assets m m m m m m Related party Ultimate parent TUI AG 3 3 2 2 Subsidiaries of TUI AG 1 1 Joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 3 3 6 1 7 Joint ventures of the Group 42 30 72 43 35 78 Associates of the Group 8 8 3 3 total 56 30 86 55 36 91 174 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Related party transactions continued Receivables due from related parties are reported in Note 16.
Amounts owed from TUI AG and its subsidiaries of 3m 2013: 3m are in respect of current trade and other receivables.
Amounts owed by joint ventures of the Group that are due after more than one year of 30m 2013: 35m principally comprises hotel prepayments made to the Atlantica Leisure Group of companies.
In the prior year the balance also included a loan of US$12m, equating to 8m from TUI Travel Holdings Limited, a direct subsidiary of the Company, to Togebi Holdings Limited.
This loan has been provided for within the 28m 2013: nil impairment recognised against loans made to our joint venture operating in the Russian and Ukrainian source markets, given the ongoing challenging trading conditions in that environment also refer to Note 12.
Amounts owed by joint ventures that are due within one year of 42m 2013: 43m include accommodation costs due from Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries of 17m 2013: 15m, which were non-interest bearing balances.
The remaining balance due within one year includes current hotel prepayments made to the Atlantica Leisure Group of companies.
Related party payables 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 current non-current total Current Non-current Total liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m Related party Ultimate parent TUI AG 6 6 7 7 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 52 1 53 48 48 Joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 26 26 11 11 Joint ventures of the Group 49 49 26 1 27 Associates of the Group 11 11 5 5 total 144 1 145 97 1 98 Payables outstanding with related parties are reported in Notes 21 and 23.
An analysis of current amounts owed to related parties is as follows: 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed to related parties Note 21 134 97 Current provisions Notes 12 and 22 10 total current liabilities owed to related parties 144 97 Amounts payable to hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG and joint ventures and associates of TUI AG are in respect of current trade payables primarily associated with accommodation and destination services costs.
The payables to joint ventures of the Group also includes 10m 2013: nil relating to the constructive obligation at 30 September 2014 for additional funding loans to be paid to Togebi Holdings Limited.
Further details of these amounts, which were loaned after the year end, are disclosed in Note 12 and are included within the current other provision balance in Note 22.
The Groups share of bank guarantees given by the Company for bank loans drawn by Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries totalled 12m at 30 September 2014 2013: 12m.
No payable has been recognised at 30 September 2014 2013: nil as no cash outflow is currently expected under the terms of these guarantees.
The above balances exclude 200m nominal value of the Groups convertible bonds 4.9% April 2017 which have been sold to Antium Finance Ltd. TUI AG is entitled to receive the interest coupon on these bonds and to repurchase these bonds by July 2016 at the latest.
Further details of the convertible bonds are given in Note 20.
Details on interest rate and liquidity risks in respect of balances with related parties are included in Notes 26 E and 26 F respectively.
Key management compensation Details of Directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group the GMB and the Directors of the Company were related parties whose remuneration has to be listed separately.
The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel including Directors was as follows: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 11 9 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 11 10 total 23 20 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 175 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 32.
Principal operating subsidiaries Other than as stated below, all of the principal operating subsidiaries listed in the following table are wholly owned.
Principal operating subsidiaries are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Sectors results and net assets during the year.
A full list will be included in the Companys next annual return to Companies House.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Sector specified.
TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream Sector UK & Ireland, to reflect its principal operations but the Company also includes certain UK Specialist & Activity businesses at 30 September 2014.
Subsidiary Country of incorporation Nature of business Mainstream Sector Mainstream UK & ireland Falcon Leisure Group Overseas Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Thomson Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline TUI UK Limited United Kingdom Tour operator TUI UK Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent Mainstream Germany Berge & Meer Touristik GmbH Germany Tour operator GeBeCo Gesellschaft fur internationale Begegnung und Cooperation mbH & Co. KG Germany Tour operator LTUR Tourismus AG 70% Germany Tour operator TUI Deutschland GmbH Germany Tour operator TUI 4 U GmbH Germany Tour operator TUIfly Vermarktungs GmbH Germany Tour operator TUIfly GmbH Germany Airline Mainstream nordics Fritidsresor AB Sweden Tour operator Oy Finnmatkat AB Finland Tour operator Star Tour A S Denmark Tour operator  AS Norway Tour operator TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden Airline Mainstream France Corsair SA France Airline TUI France SAS France Tour operator Mainstream Other JetAir NV Belgium Tour operator TT Hotels Turkey Otel Hizmetleri Turizm five Ticaret AS Turkey Hotel operator TUI Suisse AG Switzerland Tour operator TUI Airlines Belgium NV Belgium Airline TUI Airlines Nederland B. V. Netherlands Airline TUI Austria Holding GmbH Austria Tour operator TUI Aviation GmbH Germany Leasing company TUI sterreich GmbH Austria Tour operator TUI Nederland N. V. Netherlands Tour operator TUI Poland Sp Z. o. o Poland Tour operator TUI Travel Aviation Finance Limited United Kingdom Leasing company Accommodation & Destinations Sector Lima Tours S. A. C. Peru Tour operator Asiarooms Pte Ltd Singapore Online travel agent Beds On Line SLU Spain Accommodation wholesaler Blue Travel Partner Services S. A.
99% Dominican Republic Inbound services Club Turavia SA fide CV Mexico Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds Dominicana S. A. Dominican Republic Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds Product, SLU Spain Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds, S. L. U. Spain Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds Spain, SLU Spain Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds UK Limited United Kingdom Accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds USA, Inc. USA Accommodation wholesaler Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, Inc. USA Inbound services Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, SLU Spain Inbound services Late Rooms Limited United Kingdom Online travel agent Pacific World Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Inbound services Transfar-Agencia fide Viagens e Turismo Unipessoal LDA Portugal Inbound services Tantur Turizm Seyahat AS Turkey Tour operator TUI Hellas Travel Tourism and Airline AE Greece Inbound services TUI Portugal-Agencia fide Viagens e Turismo SA Portugal Inbound services TUI Espaa Turismo SA Spain Inbound services Ultramar Express Transport S. A. Spain Inbound services 176 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Principal operating subsidiaries continued Subsidiary Country Nature of business Specialist & Activity Sector Crown Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Experience English Limited United Kingdom Language teaching Exodus Travels Limited 60% United Kingdom Tour operator Fanfirm Pty Limited Australia Tour operator Gullivers Sports Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Hayes & Jarvis Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Headwater Holidays Limited 60% United Kingdom Tour operator Intrepid Travel Pty Ltd 60% Australia Tour operator Mariner International Travel, Inc. USA Tour operator Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd 60% Australia Tour operator Porter and Haylett Limited United Kingdom Boat owning company Quark Expeditions, Inc. USA Tour operator Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Specialist Holidays Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited United Kingdom Tour operator TCS and Starquest Expeditions, Inc. USA Tour operator The Moorings Limited British Virgin Islands Tour operator Travcoa Corporation USA Tour operator Travel Class Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Travel Turf, Inc. USA Tour operator Travelmood Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Trek America Travel Limited 60% United Kingdom Tour operator TTSS Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Williment Travel Group Limited New Zealand Tour operator World Challenge Expeditions Limited United Kingdom Tour operator World Challenge Expeditions Pty Limited Australia Tour operator Your Man Tours, Inc. USA Tour operator Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc. USA Tour operator All subsidiaries except those marked with an asterisk are held indirectly by the Company.
In addition to the ownership of the ordinary shares of the above listed principal operating subsidiaries, the Group also owns the following shares in these companies: Principal operating subsidiary Additional classes of shares Ski Bound Limited 167,502 1 A ordinary shares Club Turavia SA fide CV 2,317,133 MXP1 variable shares 33. earnings per share The basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
The diluted earnings per share is calculated on the result attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted potential weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes account of the outstanding share awards and the impact of the conversion of the convertible bonds, where their conversion is dilutive.
The additional underlying earnings per share measures have been presented to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Comparative figures for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been restated to reflect the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: Weighted Weighted Earnings average no.
per share earnings of shares per share 2013 of shares 2013 2014 2014 2014 restated 2013 restated m Millions Pence m Millions Pence Basic earnings per share 183 1,114 16.4 51 1,110 4.6 Effect of dilutive options 8 8 Diluted earnings per share 183 1,122 16.3 51 1,118 4.6 For the statutory measure of diluted earnings per share, the effects of including the convertible bonds are anti-dilutive in both years and therefore this is not included within the calculation.
STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 177 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnciAL StAteMentS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Alternative measures of earnings per share Weighted Weighted Earnings average no.
per share earnings of shares per share 2013 of shares 2013 2014 2014 2014 restated 2013 restated m Millions Pence m Millions Pence Basic earnings per share 183 1,114 16.4 51 1,110 4.6 Acquisition related expenses and impairments 96 253 Separately disclosed items 1 24 Interest and tax on joint ventures & associates 18 15 Separately disclosed tax item 26 Tax base difference 2 9 Basic underlying earnings per share 324 1,114 29.1 334 1,110 30.1 Effect of dilutive options 8 8 Effect of convertible bond net of tax 43 201 49 205 Diluted underlying earnings per share 367 1,323 27.7 383 1,323 28.9 As disclosed in Note 8 i, following a review of the Groups deferred tax balances in the year, the Directors have written off 26m of deferred tax assets where there is no longer sufficient certainty of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future.
These charges have been treated as separately disclosed tax items and have been excluded from the underlying earnings per share calculations.
The tax base difference represents the remaining difference between the actual tax charge in the consolidated income statement 175m and the Groups underlying tax charge 147m, as disclosed below, after taking account of the separately disclosed tax item.
The dilutive effect of the convertible bonds is included solely to calculate diluted underlying earnings per share.
Reconciliation of profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 183 51 Result attributable to non-controlling interests 4 3 Profit for the year 187 54 non-GAAP measure Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying earnings Year ended year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2014 restated Note m m Underlying operating profit 612 589 Net underlying financial expenses 5 137 128 Underlying profit before tax 475 461 Underlying tax charge at 31% 2013: 27% 147 124 Underlying profit for the year 328 337 Attributable to ordinary shareholders 324 334 Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 3 Underlying profit for the year 328 337 34. capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the Parent Company.
The Boards policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Boards objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
This includes maintaining the level of dividends at a level commensurate with underlying operating profitability of the Group and obtaining sufficient long and short-term debt facilities that are appropriate for the seasonality of the business.
The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long-term value to shareholders with a return on invested capital ROIC greater than the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 7.5% 2013: 8.1%.
This objective has been achieved again this year with a ROIC of 14.6% 2013: 14.8%.
The Group is required to comply with external banking credit facility covenants, with compliance being tested twice a year.
The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the year and up to the date of signing these financial statements.
Further information on these covenants is provided in Note 1 B v. 178 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34. capital management continued ROIC is defined as Underlying NOPAT Average Invested Capital.
Underlying NOPAT is underlying net operating profit after tax charged at the effective annual rate.
As such, ROIC is considered to be a non-GAAP measure of performance.
Average Invested Capital comprises an average of the net assets at the start and end of the year of the Group, adjusted to add back net debt, cumulative goodwill impairment charges and defined benefit pension scheme net deficits.
There is also an adjustment to net debt to reflect a seasonal average cash balance.
Calculations for the current and prior years are: year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 Return on invested capital Note m m Underlying operating profit Consolidated income statement 612 589 Taxation at the underlying effective rate of 31% 2013: 27% 190 159 Underlying nOPAt 422 430 Net assets Consolidated balance sheet 1,644 1,491 Seasonal net debt adjustment 223 320 Cumulative goodwill impairment charge 378 378 Defined benefit pension net deficit 6 C 699 661 invested capital 2,944 2,850 Average Invested Capital 2,897 2,903 ROic 14.6% 14.8% The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
An analysis of net cash at the year end is in Note 27 A.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions.
Compliance with these regulations is mandatory for the relevant operating businesses in those countries in order that they are able to continue trading.
Key countries with such mandatory capital requirements are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Australia.
The capital requirements in these countries stipulate maintaining minimum equity net asset levels in operating subsidiaries.
All such capital requirements were complied with as at 30 September 2014.
None of these requirements place any significant restriction on the Groups funding or operations.
Post balance sheet events On 15 September 2014, the Independent Directors of the Company and the Executive Board Vorstand of TUI AG announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share nil-premium merger of the Company and TUI AG the Merger, to be implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement of the Company under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 the Scheme.
The scheme document in connection with the Scheme, containing the notice of the Court Meeting and Notice of General Meeting, was published on 2 October 2014 the Scheme Document.
The Scheme Document contained a profit estimate for the year ended 30 September 2014 for the purposes of Rule 28 of the UK Code for Takeovers and Mergers, which was stated as being full year underlying operating profit growth of at least 9% on a constant currency basis.
The actual results for the year ended 30 September 2014 are consistent with this profit estimate, as full year operating profit growth has been 11% on a constant currency basis.
At the Court Meeting of the Scheme Shareholders and the General Meeting of the TUI Travel Shareholders, both held on 28 October 2014, the resolutions contained in the notice of the Court Meeting and Notice of General Meeting were duly passed by the requisite majorities.
It is expected that the Court Hearing to sanction the Scheme will be held on 10 December 2014 and that the Scheme will be effective on 11 December 2014 as set out in the Scheme Document.
Ultimate parent company The Directors consider the ultimate parent company to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover Federal Republic of Germany.
At 30 September 2014, TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 53.72% 2013: 54.48% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
In addition, a number of bonds are held indirectly by TUI AG and, if converted, would give rise to 52,309,463 of new shares.
On a fully diluted basis, if all bonds were converted, TUI AGs shareholding would be 50% at 30 September 2014.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group.
TUI AG is the parent undertaking of the smallest and largest group to consolidate these financial statements.
The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 30 September.
Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered office of TUI AG situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
