102 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 64 Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Group: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United and performance of the business and the position of the Group, Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the that it faces.
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are The Directors also confirm that: satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and required to: they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable of that information.
and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The Directors responsibilities statement was approved by a duly applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 3 December 2014 to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and signed on its behalf by William Waggott, Chief Financial Officer.
and Parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue William Waggott in business.
Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 3 December 2014 that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
tt27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 103 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial statements 103 GROUP FinAnciAL StAteMentS 110 Consolidated income statement 111 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 Consolidated balance sheet 113 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114 Consolidated statement of cash flows 115 nOteS tO the cOnSOLiDAteD FinAnciAL StAteMentS 115 1.
Key accounting estimates and judgements 127 3.
Income, expenses and auditors remuneration 141 8.
Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments 151 13. Business combinations 153 14.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 154 15.
Assets classified as held for sale 156 20.
Current trade and other payables 158 22.
Non-current trade and other payables 159 24.
Movements in cash and net debt and cash conversion 172 28.
Ultimate parent company 179 inDePenDent AUDitORS RePORt PARent cOMPAny 180 Company balance sheet 181 Notes to the Companys financial statements TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design
