STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION TRANSPARENCY DISCLOSURE Transparency Disclosure Bonus payments This represents any bonus paid to The Reports on Payments to Governments Regulations governments during the year, usually as a result of achieving UK Regulations came into force on 1 December 2014 and certain milestones, such as a signature bonus, POD bonus require UK companies in the extractive sector to publicly or a production bonus.
disclose payments made to governments in the countries Licence fees This represents licence fees, rental fees, entry where they undertake extractive operations.
The regulations fees and other consideration for licences and or concessions implement Chapter 10 of EU Accounting Directive paid for access to an area during the year with the exception of 2013 34 EU.
signature bonuses which are captured within bonus payments.
The UK Regulations have an effective date of 1 January 2015, Infrastructure improvement payments This represents but Tullow were early adopters of the EU Directive and payments made in respect of infrastructure improvements published our tax payments to governments in full, in its for projects that are not directly related to oil and gas 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
The 2014 disclosure activities during the year.
This can be a contractually remains in line with the EU Directive and UK Regulations obligated payment in a PSC or a discretionary payment and we have provided additional voluntary disclosure on VAT, for building improving local infrastructure such as roads, stamp duty, withholding tax, PAYE and other taxes.
bridges, ports, schools and hospitals.
The payments disclosed are based on where the obligation VAT This represents net cash VAT received from paid to for the payment arose: Payments raised at a project level governments during the year.
The amount disclosed is equal have been disclosed at a project level and payments raised at to the VAT return submitted by Tullow to governments with a corporate level have been disclosed on that basis.
However, the cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
where a payment or a series of related payments do not It should be noted the operator of a joint venture typically exceed 86,000, they are disclosed at a corporate level, makes VAT payments in respect of the joint venture as a in accordance with the UK Regulations.
The voluntary whole and as such where Tullow has a non-operated disclosure has been prepared on a corporate level.
presence in a country limited VAT will be paid.
All of the payments disclosed in accordance with the Stamp Duty This includes taxes that are placed on legal Directive have been made to National Governments, either documents usually in the transfers of assets or capital.
directly or through a Ministry or Department of the National Usually these taxes are reflected in stamp duty returns made Government with the exception of Ghana payments in to governments and are paid shortly after capital or assets respect of production entitlements and licence fees which are transferred.
are paid to the Ghana National Oil Company.
Withholding tax WHT This represents tax charged on Our total economic contribution to all stakeholders can services, interest, dividends or other distributions of profits.
Detailed disclosure on our 2014 tax The amount disclosed is equal to the WHT return submitted payments can be found on pages 170 to 171. by Tullow to governments with the cash payment made in the Production entitlements in barrels includes non-cash year the charge is borne.
It should be noted the operator of a royalties and state non-participating interest paid in barrels joint venture typically makes WHT payments in respect of the of oil or gas out of Tullows working interest share of joint venture as a whole and as such where Tullow has a production in a licence.
The figures disclosed are produced non-operated presence in a country limited WHT will be paid.
on an entitlement basis rather than a liftings basis.
It does PAYE & national insurance This represents payroll and not include the Governments or NOCs working interest employer taxes paid such as PAYE and national insurance share of production in a licence.
Production entitlements by Tullow as a direct employer.
The amount disclosed is have been multiplied by the Groups 2014 average realised equal to the return submitted by Tullow to governments oil price $97.5 bbl.
with the cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
Income taxes This represents cash tax calculated on the Carried interests This comprises payments made under basis of profits including income or capital gains.
Income a carrying agreement or PSC PSA, by Tullow for the cash taxes are usually reflected in corporate income tax returns.
settlement of costs owed by a government or national oil The cash payment of income taxes occurs in the year in company for their equity interest in a licence.
which the tax has arisen or up to one year later.
Income taxes also include any cash tax rebates received from the Customs duties This represents cash payments made in government or revenue authority during the year.
Income respect of customs excise import and export duties made taxes do not include fines and penalties.
during the year including items such as railway levies.
These payments typically arise through the import transportation of Royalties This represents cash royalties paid to goods into a country with the cash payment made in the year governments during the year for the extraction of oil or gas.
The terms of the royalties are described within our PSCs and can vary from project to project within one country.
Royalties Training allowances This comprises payments made in paid in kind have been recognised within the production respect of training government or national oil company staff.
The cash payment of royalties This can be in the form of mandatory contractual requirements occurs in the year in which the tax has arisen.
or discretionary training provided by a company.
