Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of preparation This section provides general information about the Group and the accounting policies that apply to the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Accounting policies that are specific to a particular note are provided within the note to which it relates.
This section also details the new or amended accounting standards adopted during the year as well as the anticipated impact of future changes to accounting standards that are not yet effective.
UBM plc is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The registered office is Ogier House, The Esplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBM plc was tax resident in the Republic of Ireland until 30 November 2012 when it returned to the United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are described in Section 2.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015.
They are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and are prepared under the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Parent Company, UBM plc.
All amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m unless otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those used for the previous financial year, except for the adoption of the following new and amended IFRSs.
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IFRS 10 Consolidated These amendments provide an exception to the consolidation requirement None: The Parent Company in the Group Financial Statements for entities that meet the definition of an investment entity under IFRS 10 does not qualify to be an investment entity amended, IFRS 12 Consolidated Financial Statements.
The exception to consolidation requires under IFRS 10 Disclosures of Interests in investment entities to account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or Other Entities amended loss and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Adopted retrospectively from 1 January 2014 amended IAS 32 Financial These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable None Instruments: Presentation right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms amended of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting Adopted retrospectively from 1 January 2014 IAS 39 Financial These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when None: the Group has not novated any Instruments: Recognition novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain derivatives during the current or prior and Measurement criteria periods IAS 36 Impairment of Assets These amendments reduce the circumstances in which the recoverable The Group has considered the amount of assets or CGUs is required to be disclosed and to disclose the amendments in the disclosures included discount rate used in determining an impairment where recoverable amount within Note 4.1 given the impairment is determined using a present value technique charge recognised in the year IFRIC 21 Levies The interpretation clarifies when an entity recognises a liability for a levy None imposed by governments under legislation, other than outflows that are within the scope of other standards and fines or other penalties for breaches of legislation Adopted from 1 January 2014 Discontinued operations There are no operations classified as discontinued in the 2014 financial information.
Discontinued operations in the comparative period relate to the Groups disposal of the UBM Channel business and certain UBM Built Environment Marketing Services.
Comparative information On 6 November 2014, the Group announced a fully underwritten 4 for 5 rights issue of 196,734,453 new shares at 287 pence per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange.
As a result, the Earnings per share and Dividend per share comparative information has been restated to reflect the bonus element.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future see page 39 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore prepared on the going concern basis.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of preparation continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise those of UBM plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
With effect from 1 January 2010, total comprehensive income within a subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interest even if it results in a deficit balance.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
All unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated in full.
These investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by Group entities in their respective functional currency using the spot rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expenses are translated at the exchange rate prevailing in the month in which the transactions occurred.
The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income and are shown as a separate component of equity, which was reset to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items designated as part of the hedge of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated amount of other comprehensive income held in a separate component of equity relating to that foreign operation is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss, along with the cumulative amount of exchange recognised in relation to hedging instruments.
86 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the accompanying disclosures.
Uncertainty about the assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes which differ from the estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements relate to: Unrecognised deferred tax assets Note 3.6 The identification of cash generating units and assumptions used in the impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1 The measurement of retirement benefit obligations Note 7.2 The identification of intangible assets acquired in business combinations Note 6.1 The key areas of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that could have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year relate to: Current tax liabilities Note 3.6 Forecast cash flows used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1 Provisions Note 4.6 Put options over non-controlling interests Note 6.1 New and amended IFRS issued by the IASB but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2014 The following new and amended IFRSs may have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IFRS 15 Revenue IFRS 15 applies to all contracts with customers excluding those The analysis of the impact is in progress but it Recognition covered by other IFRSs such as lease contracts, insurance contracts, is not expected to have a material impact and financial instruments Core principle of the standard: Recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 IFRS 9 Financial Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost or fair value.
Liabilities The Group is currently performing an initial Instruments will be measured in accordance with the existing requirements of IAS 39, assessment of the impact of this standard but the portion of the change in fair value of a liability arising from changes in the entitys own credit risk will be presented in other comprehensive These are not considered to have a material income, rather than in the income statement.
Effective for annual periods impact beginning on or after 1 January 2015 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87
