RESPONSIBILITIES OF KPMG ACCOUNTANTS N. V. This page sets out the responsibilities of KPMG Accountant N. V. Concluding on the appropriateness of managements use of as referred to in the audit opinion on pages 79 to 83. the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists OUR RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
If we Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate to draw attention in our auditors report to the related audit evidence for our opinion.
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our level of assurance, which means we may not have detected auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may all errors and fraud.
cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern: Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained of the financial statements, including the disclosures: and professional skepticism throughout the audit, in accordance with Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves independence requirements.
Our audit included e. g. : Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement We communicate with the Audit Committee regarding, among of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and designing and performing audit procedures responsive to significant audit findings, including any significant findings in those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and internal control that we identify during our audit.
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is We provide the Audit Committee with a statement that we higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, independence, and to communicate with them all relationships or the override of internal control: and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an From the matters communicated with the Audit Committee, we opinion on the effectiveness of the companys internal control: determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors disclosures made by management: report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest.
136 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
