NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER PLC ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES DEFERRED TAXATION Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant BASIS OF PREPARATION timing differences arising from the recognition of items for The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and in taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards are included in PLC accounts.
Full provision is made at the rates and the UK Companies Act 2006. of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets and The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention liabilities have not been discounted.
except for the revaluation of financial assets classified as available-for-sale investments or fair value through profit SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS orloss, and derivative financial instruments in accordance Shares held to satisfy options are accounted for in accordance withthe accounting policies set out below which have been with UKGAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial Instruments: consistentlyapplied.
Presentation, FRS20Share Based Payments and Urgent Issues Task Force abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts UITF 38.
All ADOPTION OF FRS 101 IN 2015 differences between thepurchase price of the shares held to In 2012, the FRC, being the standard setting body in the UK, satisfy options granted and theproceeds received for the shares, published FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework which is whether on exercise or lapse, arecharged to other reserves.
available to qualifying entities that prepare their annual report and accounts under EU adopted IFRS International Financial DIVIDENDS Reporting Standards.
This outlines a reduced disclosure Under FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, proposed framework available to qualifying entities and all UK entities will dividends do not meet the definition of a liability until such time be required to adopt this or an alternative standard in 2015. asthey have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Therefore, we do not recognise a liability in Unilever PLC intends to prepare its accounts under FRS 101 for anyperiod for dividends that have been proposed but will not the first time in 2015.
The consolidated accounts for the Group be approved until after the balance sheet date.
This holds for will continue to be prepared under full IFRS.
The Board considers externaldividends as well as intra-group dividends paid to that it is in the best interests of the Group for Unilever PLC to theparentcompany.
adopt FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
TAXATION A shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for of the total allotted shares in Unilever PLC may serve objections the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the to the use of the disclosure exemptions on Unilever PLC, in balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect writing, to its corporate office 100 Victoria Embankment, London, of previous periods.
EC4Y 0DY not later than 30 June 2015 and, if so received, Unilever PLC may not use these disclosure exemptions.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation ACCOUNTING POLICIES exists at the balance sheet date, as a result of a past event, where The principal accounting policies are as follows: the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated and where the outflow of economic benefit is probable.
Provisions are INTANGIBLE ASSETS measured on the basis of the best estimate of the amounts Intangible assets comprise trademarks purchased after required to settle the obligations at the balance sheet date.
Unless 1January 1998 and are amortised in the profit and loss account indicated otherwise, provisions are stated at the face value of the over their expected useful lives of up to a maximum of 20 years.
expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligations.
These assets are held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
They are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FINANCIAL GUARANTEES United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 11 Impairment of Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to Fixed Assets and Goodwill FRS 11.
Any impairment is charged guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, tothe profit and loss account as it arises.
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a written off to reflect a permanent impairment.
Any impairment payment under the guarantee.
ischarged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The companys accounting policies under United Kingdom generallyaccepted accounting principles UK GAAP, namely FRS25 Financial Instruments: Presentation, FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Measurement and FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are the same as the Unilever Groups accounting policies under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS namely IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Thepolicies are set out under the heading Capital and funding innote 15 to the consolidated accounts on pages 109 and 110.
PLC is taking the exemption for financial instruments disclosures, because IFRS 7 disclosures are given in notes 15 to 18 to the consolidated accounts on pages 109 to 123.
138 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
