NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNILEVER GROUP 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros.
The accounting policies adopted are the same as those which Thefunctional currencies of NV and PLC are euros and sterling were applied for the previous financial year, except as set out respectively.
Items included in the financial statements of below under the heading Recent accounting developments.
individual group companies are recorded in their respective functional currency which is the currency of the primary UNILEVER economic environment in which each entity operates.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Foreign currency transactions in individual group companies are Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC translated into functional currency using exchange rates at the have the same Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses including an Equalisation Agreement, which are designed so that fromsettlement of these transactions, and from translation the positions of the shareholders of both companies are as closely ofmonetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates, as possible the same as if they held shares in a single company.
arerecognised in the income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying hedges.
The Equalisation Agreement provides that both companies adopt the same accounting principles.
It also requires that dividends In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the balances and other rights and benefits attaching to each ordinary share in individual group companies are translated from their functional of NV, be equal in value to those rights and benefits attaching to currency into euros.
The income statement, the cash flow each ordinary share of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed statement and all other movements in assets and liabilities part of the ordinary share capital of one and the same company.
are translated at average rates of exchange as a proxy for the transaction rate, or at the transaction rate itself if more BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION appropriate.
Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to exchange rates.
above, NV and PLC form a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated in financial statements of Unilever are presented by both NV and accordance with the Equalisation Agreement.
The difference PLC as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Group between the value for PLC and the value by applying the companies included in the consolidation are those companies year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note controlled by NV or PLC.
Control exists when the Group has the 15B on page 111. power to direct the activities of an entity so as to affect the return on investment.
The effect of exchange rate changes during the year on net assets of foreign operations is recorded in equity.
For this purpose net The net assets and results of acquired businesses are included in assets include loans between group companies and any related the consolidated financial statements from their respective dates foreign exchange contracts where settlement is neither planned of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control.
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
The results of disposed businesses are included in the consolidated financial statements up to their date of disposal, The Group applies hedge accounting to certain exchange being the date control ceases.
differences arising between the functional currencies of a foreign operation and NV or PLC as appropriate, regardless of whether Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated.
the net investment is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
Differences arising on retranslation of a financial liability The company income statement for NV is included in the designated as a foreign currency net investment hedge are consolidated financial statements.
An abbreviated income recorded in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
These statement has been disclosed in the NV company accounts on differences are reported within profit or loss to the extent that the page 131 in accordance with Article 2:402 of the Dutch Civil Code.
COMPANIES LEGISLATION AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Cumulative exchange differences arising since the date of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in transition to IFRS of 1 January 2004 are reported as a separate accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS component of other reserves.
In the event of disposal or part as adopted by the European Union EU, IFRIC Interpretations and in disposal of an interest in a group company either through sale or accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the UK as a result of a repayment of capital, the cumulative exchange Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
difference is recognised in the income statement as part of the They are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International profit or loss on disposal of group companies.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS These financial statements are prepared under the historical cost The preparation of financial statements requires management to convention unless otherwise indicated.
make judgements, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets, ACCOUNTING POLICIES liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from Accounting policies are included in the relevant notes to the these estimates.
Estimates and judgements are continuously consolidated financial statements.
These are presented as text evaluated and are based on historical experience and other highlighted in grey on pages 90 to 128.
The accounting policies factors, including expectations of future events that are believed below are applied throughout the financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future period affected.
88 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following new standards that are not yet effective and are yet to quantify the CONTINUED potential impact.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments reflects all phases of the Information about critical judgements in applying accounting financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial policies, as well as estimates and assumptions that have the most Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying introduces new requirements for classification and amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, measurement, impairment and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is are included in the following notes: effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January separate presentation of items in the income statement note 3: 2018.
We expect the adoption of IFRS 9 to impact the measurement of defined benefit obligations note 4B: classification and measurement of financial assets but have no key assumptions used in discounted cash flow projections impact on financial liabilities.
note 9: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is applicable utilisation of tax losses and recognition of other deferred tax to all entities and supersedes all existing revenue recognition assets note 6B: requirements under IFRS.
It applies to all transactions to likelihood of occurrence of provisions and contingencies, provide goods and services except those in the scope of other including direct and indirect tax investigations and audits standards.
Either full or modified retrospective application is notes 19 and 20: and required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. measurement of consideration and assets and liabilities acquired as part of business combinations note 21.
RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP The following new and amended standards are relevant to the Group and have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, with no material impact: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation provides additional guidance on when financial assets and liabilities can be offset.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when a hedge derivative is novated.
Amendment to IFRS 13 Fair value measurement clarifies that short term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by relevant legislation, occurs.
NOT ADOPTED BY THE GROUP All of the following new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective from 1 January 2015 unless otherwise stated.
Standards have not yet been endorsed by the EU unless otherwise stated.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of the following new standards would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts permits first time adopters of IFRS to continue to account for amounts related to rate regulation in accordance with their previous GAAP.
The standard does not apply to the Group.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits simplifies the accounting for contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service.
These amendments have been endorsed by the EU.
Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets cover clarification of the principle of the basis of depreciation and that revenue based depreciation methods are no longer permitted.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements 89
