NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS UNILEVER N. V. ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES The policies are set out under the heading Capital and funding in note 15 to the consolidated accounts on pages 109 and110.
BASIS OF PREPARATION NV is taking advantage of the exemption for not providing all the The company accounts of Unilever N. V. comply in all material financial instruments disclosures, because IFRS 7 disclosures respects with legislation in the Netherlands.
As allowed by Article are given in note 15 to note 18to the consolidated accounts on 2:362.1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the company accounts are pages 109 to 123. prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, unless such standards conflict with the Civil Code in DEFERRED TAXATION the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant timing differences arising from the recognition of items for The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they unless otherwise indicated, in accordance with theaccounting are included in NV accounts.
Full provision is made at the rates policies set out below which havebeen consistentlyapplied.
of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets and ADOPTION OF FRS 101 IN 2015 liabilities have not been discounted.
In 2012, the FRC, being the standard setting body in the UK, published FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework which is OWN SHARES HELD available to qualifying entities that prepare their annual report Own shares held by NV are accounted for in accordance with and accounts under EU adopted IFRS International Financial Dutch law and UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Reporting Standards.
This outlines a reduced disclosure Presentation.
All differences between the purchase price of the framework available to qualifying entities and all UK entities will shares held to satisfy options granted and the proceeds received be required to adopt this or an alternative standard in 2015. for the shares, whether on exercise or lapse, are charged to other reserves.
In respect to option plans, disclosures are given in note Unilever N. V. intends to prepare its accounts under FRS 101 for 4C to the consolidated accounts on pages 98 and 99. the first time in 2015.
The consolidated accounts for the Group will continue to be prepared under full IFRS.
The Board considers that RETIREMENT BENEFITS it is in the best interests of the Group for Unilever N. V. to adopt Unilever N. V. has accounted for pensions and similar benefits FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
under the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement benefits FRS 17.
The operating and financing costs A shareholder or shareholders holding in aggregate 5% or more of defined benefit plans are recognised separately in the profit of the total allotted shares in Unilever N. V. may serve objections to andloss account: service costs are systematically spread over the use of the disclosure exemptions on Unilever N. V. in writing, theservice lives of employees, and financing costs are recognised to its registered office Weena 455, PO Box 760, 3000 DK in the periods in which they arise.
Variations from expected costs, Rotterdam, The Netherlands not later than 30 June 2015 and, arising from the experience of the plans or changes inactuarial if so received, Unilever N. V. may not use these disclosure assumptions, are recognised immediately in equity.
individual events such as past service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments arerecognised immediately in the ACCOUNTING POLICIES profit and loss account.
The liabilitiesand, where applicable, the The principal accounting policies are as follows: assets of defined benefit plans arerecognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the profit and loss account for INTANGIBLE ASSETS defined contribution plans are NV contributions payable and Intangible assets are amortised in the profit and loss account over theassets of such plans are not included inNVs balancesheet.
their expected useful lives of up to a maximum of 20 years.
These assets are held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
They are DIVIDENDS subject to review for impairment in accordance with United Under Financial Reporting Standard 21 Events after the Balance Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 11 Impairment of Fixed Sheet Date FRS 21, proposed dividends do not meet the Assets and Goodwill FRS 11.
Any impairment is charged to the definition of a liability until such time as they have been approved profit and loss account as it arises.
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Therefore, we do not recognise a liability in any period for dividends that have been INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES proposed but will not be approved until after the balance sheet Shares in group companies are stated at cost less any amounts date.
This holds for external dividends as well as intra-group written off to reflect a permanent impairment.
Any impairment dividends paid to the parent company.
ischarged tothe profit and loss account as it arises.
In accordance with Article 2:385.5 of the Dutch Civil Code, Unilever TAXATION N. V. shares held by Unilever N. V. subsidiaries are deducted from Unilever N. V. together with certain of its subsidiaries, is part of a the carrying value of those subsidiaries.
This differs from the tax group for Dutch corporate income tax purposes.
Unilever N. V. accounting treatment under UKGAAP, whichwould require these is the head of the fiscal unity.
The members of the fiscal unity are amounts to beincluded within investments in subsidiaries.
jointly and severally liable for any taxes payable by this group.
The external payable to or receivable from the Dutch Tax Authorities, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS is only included in the books of Unilever N. V. and this amount NV accounting policies under United Kingdom generallyaccepted relates to the fiscal unity comprising all entities except for accounting principles UK GAAP namely FRS 25 Financial Unilever Nederland Holdings B. V. Univest Company B. V. and Instruments: Presentation, FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Unilever Insurances N. V. The amounts for the other entities are Measurement and FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures settled between Unilever N. V. and these entities via intercompany are thesame as the Unilever Groups accounting policies under transactions.
IFRS namely IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
132 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
