STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her in the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare knowledge: accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, of the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC balanced and understandable, and provides the information entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, loss and cash flows for that year.
business model and strategy: The financial statements which have been prepared in The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and thatall financial statements and UK accounting standards in the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU case of the PLC parent company accounts and UK accounting andas issued by the International Accounting Standards Board standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the inthecase of the consolidated financial statements, UK case of the NV parent company accounts, give a true and fair accounting standards in the case of the PLC parent company view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or accounts and Dutch law in the case of the NV parent company loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the accounts which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
consolidation taken as a whole: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC and performance of the business and the position of the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure whole, together with a description of the principal risks and that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also uncertainties that they face.
have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 41 and 54. and to prevent and detectfraud and other irregularities.
GOING CONCERN This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to Independent Auditors reports, ismade with a view to affect its future development, performance, the financial position distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing of the Directors andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
facilities are described inthe Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages 109 to 123 the A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its placedonour website at www.
capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its The maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures of the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not to credit and liquidity risk.
involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred The Group has considerable financial resources together with to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the established business relationships with many customers and website.
Legislation in the UK and the Netherlands governing the suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its from legislation in other jurisdictions.
business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure in expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in respect of these responsibilities is made on page 48. operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report andAccounts.
INTERNAL AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Please refer to pages 49 to 53 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to pages 50 to 53 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
78 Financial statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
