FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Acacia Mining plc, formerly African Barrick Gold plc the Company, Acacia or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, 1 Cavendish Place, London, W1G 0QF, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 63.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The financial statements of BGC can be obtained from www.
BGC is incorporated in Canada.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 9 March 2015.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has three operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest at Equity interest at Company Principal activity incorporation Relationship 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 2 Acacia Mining plc Holding Company UK 100% 100% BUK HoldCo Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% 3 Acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100% 4 Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% ABG Exploration Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% 5 Acacia Mining SA Pty Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Tusker Gold Limited Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% BUK West Africa Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% ABG Exploration Mali SARL Exploration Mali Subsidiary 100% 2 African Barrick Gold Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Kahama Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 49% 49% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 51% 1 June year end.
2 T he Company changed its name during the year from African Barrick Gold plc to Acacia Mining plc.
A new entity was incorporated to protect the name, and then a name swap was done in which African Barrick Gold plc became Acacia Mining plc and Acacia Mining plc became African Barrick Gold plc.
3 The company changed its name during the year from African Barrick Barbados Corp Ltd to Acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd. 4 The company changed its name during the year from ABG Exploration Kenya Ltd to Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd. 5 The company changed its name during the year from African Barrick Gold SA Pty Ltd to Acacia Mining SA Pty Ltd.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
106 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Significant accounting policies IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on existing The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless financial statements of the parent company.
The standard provides otherwise stated.
additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The amendment did not have a significant a Basis of preparation effect on the assessment of control.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, focuses on rights and obligations accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
by the European Union IFRS, International Financial Reporting Proportional consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts permitted.
The amendment did not have a significant effect on of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under the Group financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, includes the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of including joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments other off-balance sheet vehicles.
The amendment did not have at fair value through profit or loss.
a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States c N ew and amended standards and interpretations dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand US not yet adopted dollars except when otherwise indicated.
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year and been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods current year financial statements has been made during the period, beginning on or after 1 January 2015: comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
No presentational IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, changes were made in the current year.
measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting and measurement of financial instruments.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised financial statements are disclosed in Note2d.
cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L.
The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and b New and amended standards adopted by the Group the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
The following new standards and amendments to standards are Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at applicable and were adopted by the Group for the first time for the fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception financial year beginning 1 January 2014. to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment impairment model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no clarifies that the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition event.
It must also be legally enforceable for all counterparties in of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for the normal course of business, as well as in the event of default, liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The amendment also considers settlement relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the mechanisms.
The amendment did not have a significant effect on the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic Group financial statements.
relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one management actually Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on the recoverable use for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation amount disclosures for non-financial assets.
This amendment is still required but is different to that currently prepared under removed certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs IAS 39.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13. on or after 1January 2018.
Early adoption is permitted subject to Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and EU endorsement.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s fullimpact.
measurement, on the novation of derivatives and the continuation IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, deals with of hedge accounting.
This amendment considers legislative changes revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful to over-the-counter derivatives and the establishment of central information to users of financial statements about the nature, counterparties.
Under IAS 39 novation of derivatives to central amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising counterparties would result in discontinuance of hedge accounting.
from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised The amendment provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has when novation of a hedging instrument meets specified criteria.
the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good The Group has applied the amendment and there has been no or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 significant impact on the Group financial statements as a result.
Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and if that liability is within the scope of IAS 37, Provisions.
The interpretation earlier application is permitted.
The standard is not expected to have addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy a significant impact on the Group.
and when a liability should be recognised.
The Group is not currently subjected to significant levies so the impact on the Group is not material.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the control, d S ignificant judgements in applying accounting policies directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies in and key sources of estimation uncertainty order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements exist where the Company has more than one half of the voting rights require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based control.
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts over significant operating and financial decisions.
In assessing control, and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible as well included in the consolidated financial statements.
The life of mine as other contractual arrangements that enable the Company to exercise plans are central to a number of key estimates.
Information about control are taken into account.
The consolidated financial statements such judgements and estimations is included in the accounting policies include all of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources transactions as noted above.
of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold reserves Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements Note 2h from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have been The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i excluded from the date on which control transferred out of the Group.
The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable Notes 2l and 9 to non-controlling interests are presented as Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and Review of goodwill, property, plant and equipment and intangible Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated assets carrying value, the determination of whether these assets income statement, respectively.
are impaired and the measurement of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 20 and 21 f Business combinations The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional and discount rates Notes 2r and 21 fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and the measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 20 When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2o cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value and 20 of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill.
estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure Notes 2u and 28 When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is of any such provision Notes 2u, 28 and 34 reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable, a provision identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference for obsolescence on consumables inventory and the impact of is recognised in the income statement.
discounting the non-current element of the indirect tax receivable Notes 2n, 2y, 2w, 17, 18 and 23 g Foreign currency translation Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South indirect taxes Notes 2y, 13 and 22 African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of ore dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, as well functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
as the associated net realisable value and the split between the long-term and short-term portions Notes 2n and 17 Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Notes 2w and 31 at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are Determination of fair value of share options and cash-settled translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences share-based payments Notes 2v and 25 that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets e Basis of consolidation measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, and operating results Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency and cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated financial other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
Company and companies controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
108 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces Average of gold in proven and probable reserves and the portion of resources As at Year ended 31 December 31 December considered probable of economic extraction based on the current life 2014 2014 of mine plan in the components of the ore body that have been made South African rand US$: ZAR 11.54 10.85 more accessible through the stripping activity.
Capitalised open pit mine Tanzanian shilling US$: TZS 1,726 1,653 development costs are depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future economic benefit is being derived.
Australian dollar US$: AUD 1.22 1.11 UK pound US$: GBP 0.64 0.61 j Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the Average following criteria are met: As at Year ended 31 December 31 December the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have 2013 2013 been transferred to the buyer: South African rand US$: ZAR 10.50 9.63 neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually Tanzanian shilling US$: TZS 1,590 1,598 associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold Australian dollar US$: AUD 1.12 1.03 has been retained: UK pound US$: GBP 0.60 0.64 the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will h Determination of ore reserves flow to the Group: and The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be on information compiled by Qualified Persons as defined in accordance measured reliably.
with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
Reports to Gold dor sales support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and probable Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised at the time of sale amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine to a third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related at the time ofsale.
to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
Concentrate sales In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been of confidence of economic extraction.
eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the on contract quotational periods.
forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, Revenue is recorded at the shipped on board date, which is also when ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using market prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations i Stripping costs between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
The process of mining overburden and waste The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
Co-product stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
revenues from the sale of other products, such as copper and silver, Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are contained in the concentrate are recognised in revenue.
accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period Co-products that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, future economic benefit to an identifiable component of the ore body.
contained in concentrates are recognised in revenue.
Production phase stripping costs generate a future economic benefit when the related stripping activity: i improves access to a component of the ore body to be mined in the future, ii increases the fair value of the mine or pit as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive life of the mine or pit.
For production phase stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Evaluation expenditures k Cost of sales Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, They typically include costs directly attributable to: external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, detailed engineering studies: and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for treatment processes: contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
permitting activities: and l Exploration and evaluation detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development Exploration expenditures of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred for Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
directly attributable to: Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development researching and analysing existing exploration data: projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and conducting geological studies: equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core Acquired exploration and evaluation properties samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate to explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been resource: and demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous and evaluation expenditures.
or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and m Earnings per share it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period probable reserve.
attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: results per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: results Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the resource: their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For share options, and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the deposit, the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its development.
share calculations is determined using the treasury share method.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above criteria are Under this method, share options, whose exercise price is less than capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment mine the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and Equipment.
exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred at these sites are at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration expenditures incurred for of Ordinary Shares issued under share options and repurchased from the purposes of determining additional information on a mineral deposit proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
that is classified within proven and probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine development costs.
110 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION n Inventories o Property, plant and equipment Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either ore Mineral properties and mine development costs or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access ore losses.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated fair bodies.
Ore is recorded as an asset that is classified within inventory value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated and as material is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination accumulated in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in or asset acquisition.
Capitalised mine development costs include: a saleable form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal pre-production stripping costs: production stripping costs that result scheduling of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2i for capitalisation criteria market price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents for stripping costs : costs incurred to access reserves at underground gold, copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed mining operations: and exploration and evaluation expenditures that the production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods result in a probable future economic benefit refer to Note 2l for inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
capitalisation criteria for exploration and evaluation expenditures.
Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
These costs can be incurred throughout the life are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being of the underground mine.
determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the Plant and equipment period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures incurred Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the purchase price: estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, brokers commissions: and installation costs including architectural, and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, duties and the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified borrowing cost.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable maintenance and expensed as incurred.
to current period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether used in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
the balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: the Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw materials rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair and maintenance financeleases.
costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability in the production process: and an allocation of mine site overhead costs.
at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property Costs are removed from finished goods inventory and recorded in cost and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum of sales based on the average cost per ounce of gold, copper and silver lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is sold in the period.
allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is freight costs where applicable.
recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
All other leases are classified as operating Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the Assets under construction mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction p Goodwill account.
The cost of assets under construction comprises its purchase Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating with the project.
Assets under construction also contain deposits on segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for long lead items.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
impairment at the individual CGU level.
Depreciation Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment in Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill impairments are over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a not reversible.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, q Intangible assets the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which is Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit of combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper stage, we prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and probable asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such non-reserve When an exploration stage property moves into development, any material may be included in the depreciation calculations where there is acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction and the production property is transferred to non-depreciable mining interests within of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life of mineplan.
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted in which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development r Impairment of non-current assets costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
We review and an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or changes Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is any entire ore body.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the asfollows: recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to the CGU and then to Mineral properties and development costs UOP the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount Plant and equipment 4% 25% of each asset in the unit.
Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable U OP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any silver expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After Each assets estimated residual value and useful life are reviewed, such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present 112 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the In determining FVLCD, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that is of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
Impairment assessments are participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating conducted at the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiple utilised in the identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other determination of the FVLCD of a CGU considers the NPV multiples assets.
Each operating mine and development project represents a CGU observed on comparable companies.
These observed multiples are for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling utilised.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant.
The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to the application of a market multiple to the underlying NPV of a CGU when The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived determining its FVLCD.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU, which are updated on an annual basis.
The Groups s Contributed surplus LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when the to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and Reorganisation was completed.
Contributed surplus represents the sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics difference between the cumulative investment in the entities and of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes ratios, ore grades, businesses which form part of the consolidated Acacia Mining plc Group haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process and non-controlling interests.
recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing t Share capital equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity in these forecasts is the production of mineral resources that do not as a deduction from the proceeds.
currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This u Provisions is consistent with the approach that a market participant would utilise Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected future legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold prices, an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the expected reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves and effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research analysts.
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, methodology is consistent with how a market participant would assess where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting long-term gold prices.
is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs Rehabilitation costs incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group normally dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling: removal component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of or treatment of waste materials: site and land rehabilitation.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans are extent of work required and the associated costs are dependent based on the spot price at the time, the forward pricing curve and on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued v Employee benefits Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent plan the Share Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP, of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan and a is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of deferred share unit plan the DSU Plan.
provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition of Share-based payments buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care Share options and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision Share options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur Share Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as including any market performance conditions: waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates requirement for employees to save.
of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods of conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary over the assets useful life.
undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing toequity.
environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
Long-term incentive plans The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised other members of the Senior Leadership Team vest based on the in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation required, vesting period referred to as Performance RSUs.
RSUs vest over a and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation provisions two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those adjustments RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the are accounted for as a change in the corresponding value of the related Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater than the compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on remaining net book value of the related assets, in which case the value the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative and finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
114 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate w Financial instruments for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based Cash and cash equivalents on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash Legacy RSU plan equivalents as defined above.
Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for selected employees who now work for the Group.
This Loans and receivables plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
These Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost LTIP deferred share units using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, Under the Deferred Share Unit DSU plan, the Non-Executive Directors except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet can elect to receive all or part of their annual director fees in DSUs.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables DSU has the same value as one Acacia Ordinary Share.
DSUs must be are discounted and held at their net present value.
retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which time the cash value of the DSU is paid out.
Additional DSUs are credited to reflect dividends Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares.
A liability for DSUs is measured at assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the Directors is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts compensation expense.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award.
provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the expected Changes in the fair value of the DSU liability, due to changes in the price cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with a of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount corresponding charge to the Directors compensation expense.
of the provision is recognised in the incomestatement.
Defined contribution plan Derivatives The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Social Security Fund NSSF or the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all derivatives as either: employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are commitment fair value hedge : charged to the income statement when they are due.
b h edges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee investmenthedge.
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk either: terminating the employment of current employees according to management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes sheet date are discounted to their present value.
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Bonus plans The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
Movements in the hedging reserve contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a a constructive obligation.
hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when Other entitlements the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a expenseaccrual.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities a Fair value hedge Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility income statement within other charges.
Changes in the fair value of the will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some statement within finance costs.
or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and b Cash flow hedge subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that rate method.
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion x Finance income and finance expense is recognised immediately in the income statement within other charges.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are inventory or in depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer y Taxes meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately Current income tax transferred to the income statement within other charges.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to c Net investment hedge the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax similarly to cash flow hedges.
regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheetdate.
Deferred income tax Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting Embedded derivatives purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are differences can be utilised.
separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
116 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively differences, except: enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial discounted and held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and z Royalties in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at each investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, and transportation costs.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary and silver production is recognised.
differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of The following percentages apply: the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Bulyanhulu 4% NSR in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 4% NSR, 1% LT investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are North Mara Gokona pit and underground 4% NSR, 1.1% LT recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary I Buzwagi 4% NSR, 30% NP differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will T he NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer The Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012. probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
aa Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over berecovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured lease payments.
using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Indirect tax bb Dividend distribution Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Discontinued operations and disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale On 15 November 2013, Acacia announced that an agreement was reached with STAMICO, the Tanzanian State Mining Corporation, whereby STAMICO would acquire the Tulawaka Gold Mine Tulawaka and certain exploration licences surrounding Tulawaka for consideration of US$4.5 million and the grant of a 2% net smelter royalty on future production in excess of 500,000 ounces, capped at US$500,000.
On 4 February 2014, Acacia announced the completion of the sale.
STAMICO has taken ownership and management of the rehabilitation fund established as part of the closure plan for the mine, in return for the assumption of all remaining past and future closure and rehabilitation liabilities for Tulawaka, and has indemnified the other parties to the agreement in relation to these liabilities.
The transfer was completed with a net cash payment of US$11.6 million by Acacia to STAMICO for the balance of the rehabilitation fund, less the transaction consideration.
This resulted in a gain of US$4.1 million.
After non operational costs incurred in the year to 31 December 2014 and other closing adjustments, this resulted in a total cash outflow year to date of US$5.3 million.
The financial results of Tulawaka have been presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements.
The comparative results in the consolidated income statement have been presented as if Tulawaka had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Below is a summary of the results of Tulawaka for the year ended 31 December: in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Results of discontinued operations: Revenue 13,514 Cost of sales 30,368 Gross loss 16,854 Corporate administration 1,311 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses 118 3,259 Impairment charges 16,701 2 Other charges 805 19,442 Profit loss before net finance expense and taxation 687 57,567 Finance income 77 30 Finance expense 38 116 Profit loss before taxation 726 57,653 Tax credit Net profit loss for the year 726 57,653 Below is a summary of cash flows from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December: in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Operating cash flows 6,300 31,811 Investing cash flows 11,612 8,702 Financing cash flows Total cash flows 5,312 40,513 Below is a summary of Tulawakas assets and liabilities at 31 December classified as disposal group held for sale: in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Property, plant and equipment 239 Inventories 357 Disposal group assets held for sale 596 Provisions 16,760 Disposal group liabilities held for sale 16,760 Net assets and liabilities of disposal group held for sale 16,164 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses relate to projects supported from the Acacia Maendeleo Fund.
2 I ncluded in other charges are non-operational costs incurred since the cessation of operations of US$1.9 million, foreign exchange losses of US$1.3 million, offset by the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment to STAMICO of US$4.1 million.
118 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 4.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses as well as discontinued operations Tulawaka gold mine.
Segment results and carrying values include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment carrying values are disclosed and calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
The Group has also included segment cash costs per ounce sold and all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold non-IFRS financial performance measures.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 is set out below.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 166 for definitions.
4 Reflects the adjustment for non-controlling interest at Tulawaka.
5 S egment carrying values are calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets and include outside shareholders interest.
6 Represents Tulawaka which has been discontinued.
7 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
8 C apital expenditure for the segment note and all-in sustaining cost calculations excludes foreign exchange movements on property, plant and equipment balances which are included in Note 20 Property, plant and equipment.
120 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 5.
Revenue For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Gold dor sales 602,173 659,760 Gold concentrate sales 282,822 226,231 Copper concentrate sales 40,507 37,539 Silver sales 4,746 5,474 Total 930,248 929,004 1 Concentrate sales includes negative provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold, silver and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: US$5.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 US$12.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2013.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 257,914 Germany 104,981 73,126 Asia India 603,807 403,956 China 134,844 117,099 Japan 86,616 76,909 Total revenue 930,248 929,004 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues above are sales to seven major customers.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 revenues of approximately US$625 million 2013: US$681 million arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
Cost of sales For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Direct mining costs 493,933 508,166 Third-party smelting costs 24,937 16,790 1 Depreciation 128,124 147,979 Royalty expense 41,284 40,871 2 Total 688,278 713,806 1 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Impairment charges In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets, a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken annually or at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist and in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment, a review for impairment of long-lived assets is undertaken at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
During 2013, the prevailing gold price fell significantly which forced a review of the gold price outlook used for long-term planning and reserve estimation.
As reported in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, on a gross basis, and before taking into account the impact of deferred tax, the total impairment charge booked in 2013 amounted to US$690.5 million at Buzwagi, US$307.3 million at North Mara, US$46.6 million relating to Nyanzaga and US$16.7 million at Tulawaka.
At the end of 2014, the annual review for impairment of goodwill and indefinite life assets was performed.
The review compared the recoverable amount of assets for the cash generating units CGU to the carrying value of the CGUs including goodwill.
For the purposes of the Groups impairment assessment, each operating mine has been determined to be a separate CGU.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of a CGU are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
FVLCD measurements are defined as level three fair value measurements as they are valued using unobservable inputs.
The discount rate applied to calculate the present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to the fact that the optimisation of the mine plans has been taken into account when determining its FVLCD.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
The key economic assumptions used in the reviews during 2014 and 2013 were: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Gold price per ounce short-term US$1,200 US$1,300 Gold price per ounce long-term US$1,300 US$1,300 South African rand US$:ZAR 11.00 8.75 Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 1,700 1,600 Long-term oil price per barrel US$100 US$120 Discount rate 5% 5% For purposes of testing for impairment of non-current assets, a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable amount for CGUs could result in an additional impairment charge.
The carrying value of the net assets relating to Buzwagi are most sensitive to changes in key assumptions in respect of gold price and a US$100 per ounce decrease in isolation would lead to an impairment of approximately US$12 million.
The annual review for impairment of intangible assets related to exploration properties was performed by comparing the carrying value to the FVLCD which was derived based on analyst market prices for the exploration properties and similar assets.
No impairments were triggered by this review.
122 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 8.
Employee benefits For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 100,181 126,483 Pension and social security costs 10,285 12,397 1 Other employee benefits 68,868 78,679 2 Share-based compensation charge 8,613 1,377 Total 187,947 216,182 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs and other benefits.
2 Share-based compensation charges include costs incorporated in corporate administration, cost of sales and other charges as applicable to the relevant employees.
Further details of the Groups share options and other share-based compensation plans are provided in Note 25.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Average number of employees per month 2014 2013 Operations 4,262 4,898 Exploration 76 49 Administration 215 283 Total average headcount 4,553 5,230 9.
Exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets if applicable.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Expensed during the year: North Mara 478 3,099 Buzwagi 148 366 Bulyanhulu 7,595 656 Kenya 5,554 4,407 1 Other 4,509 8,399 Total expensed 18,284 16,927 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 1,957 410 Bulyanhulu 204 1,945 Nyanzaga 1,608 Total capitalised 2,161 3,963 Total 20,445 20,890 1 I ncluded in other are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Limited and in West Africa for the South Hound Project.
All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in these companies.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Other charges For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Other expenses Operational Review costs including restructuring cost 13,689 13,305 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 1,375 Losses on economic hedges 13,621 7,203 Foreign exchange losses 13,516 Bad debt expense 326 1,369 Disallowed indirect taxes 710 1,463 Legal costs 6,710 3,138 CNG-related costs residual 3,246 Government levies and charges 1,626 2,387 Project development costs 1,196 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 89 Other 86 3,617 Total 51,569 37,103 Other income Discounting of indirect tax receivables 3,648 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 99 Insurance theft claim 2,958 Foreign exchange gains 3,622 Total 3,648 6,679 Total other charges 47,921 30,424 11.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 562 452 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 426 442 Audit-related assurance services 269 329 Tax compliance services 125 125 Other taxation services 104 128 Corporate finance related services 404 Other services 8 Total 1,898 1,476 124 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 12.
Finance income and finance expenses a Finance income For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Interest on time deposits 868 937 Other 456 733 Total 1,324 1,670 b Finance expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 1 Unwinding of discount 4,697 4,468 2 Revolving credit facility charges 2,447 3,050 Interest on CIL facility 3,925 2,413 Interest on finance leases 439 658 Bank charges 606 756 Other 862 620 12,976 11,965 Capitalised during the year 2,933 2,413 Total 10,043 9,552 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision.
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees.
Tax expense credit For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year Adjustments in respect of prior years 40 Total current tax 40 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25,977 187,999 Total deferred tax 25,977 187,999 Income tax expense credit 25,977 187,959 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Tax expense credit continued The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Profit loss before tax 115,186 928,739 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 41,544 291,546 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 438 13,111 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 21,140 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 8,039 84,904 Prior year adjustments 2,904 5,572 Tax charge credit 25,977 187,959 Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Earnings loss per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of share options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of share options.
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Earnings loss Net profit loss from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 89,209 740,780 Net profit loss from discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent 1,193 40,321 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of share options 218,126 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,303,625 410,085,499 For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Earnings loss per share Basic and dilutive earnings loss per share from continuing operations cents 21.8 180.6 Basic and dilutive earnings loss per share from discontinued operations cents 0.3 9.8 Basic and dilutive earnings loss per share cents 22.1 190.4 126 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15. Dividend The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 of US$8.2 million US2.0 cents per share and the 2014 interim dividend of US$5.7 million US1.4 cents per share were paid during 2014 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 37 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year end.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Adjustments for working capital items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Trade receivables 11,405 20,017 1 Inventories 29,167 34,493 2 Other current assets 31,656 57,855 3 Other liabilities 7,593 2,177 4 Trade and other payables 22,716 32,057 5 Other working capital items 1,243 3,586 Total 20,150 41,165 1 T he inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
2 D uring 2012 the Tanzanian Government abolished the VAT relief practice resulting in a build-up in VAT receivables from the Government in 2013.
VAT refunds received in 2014 amounted to US$132.8 million and drove a decrease in VAT receivables in 2014.
3 The other liabilities adjustment includes the movement in both other current and other non-current liabilities.
4 T he trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 O ther working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital, as well as cash movements on derivative financial instruments.
Other non-cash items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses gains 12,658 5,287 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 3,648 1,375 Provisions added 2,259 524 Provisions settled 531 Unrealised losses on derivatives 15,284 8,773 Share option reversal expense 284 476 Other non-cash items 1,257 794 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 1,993 1,526 Total 28,988 8,181 b Investing cash flows other items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 93 175 Other long-term receivables 237 802 Village housing receivable 4 6 Rehabilitation expenditure 399 5,843 Total 65 4,872 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Inventories For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Raw materials Ore in stockpiles 22,040 12,545 Mine operating supplies 200,715 208,289 Gold in process 24,784 12,773 Finished products: Gold dor bullion 6,940 16,356 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 11,047 3,713 Total current portion of inventory 265,526 253,676 Non-current ore in stockpiles 90,006 72,689 Total 355,532 326,365 1 D uring 2014 US$90.0 million 2013: US$72.7 million of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long-term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2015.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amount to US$155.1 million 2013: US$282.9 million.
Trade and other receivables and other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Trade and other receivables: Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 26,202 16,204 Other receivables 10,270 10,102 Due from related parties 38 37 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,521 2,133 Total 34,989 24,210 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90-day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120-day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Other current assets: Current portion of indirect tax receivables 45,896 95,033 Other receivables and advance payments 29,926 18,912 Total 75,822 113,945 2 T he total indirect tax receivable is US$108.1 million of which US$62.2 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporation tax payments.
To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5% 2013: 5%.
3 Other receivables and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance, income taxes and social security fund contributions.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Cash at bank and on hand 149,869 136,714 Money market funds 143,981 145,695 Total 293,850 282,409 128 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 20.
Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2014 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2014, net of accumulated depreciation 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 Additions 268,939 268,939 Disposals write-downs 182 182 Depreciation 55,411 68,702 124,113 Transfers between categories 233,518 127,751 361,269 At 31 December 2014 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 At 1 January 2014 Cost 1,518,500 1,383,693 236,264 3,138,457 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,125,856 731,930 1,857,786 Net carrying amount 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 At 31 December 2014 Cost 1,750,743 1,511,444 143,934 3,406,121 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,180,174 800,632 1,980,806 Net carrying amount 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2013 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2013, net of accumulated depreciation 945,118 819,063 210,859 1,975,040 Additions 354,328 354,328 Disposals write-downs 477 477 2,3 Impairments 607,368 299,454 906,822 Depreciation 84,350 56,809 141,159 3 Transfers between categories 139,721 189,202 328,923 Reclassification to disposal group assets held for sale 239 239 3 At 31 December 2013 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 At 1 January 2013 Cost 1,475,374 1,250,088 210,859 2,936,321 Accumulated depreciation 530,256 431,025 961,281 Net carrying amount 945,118 819,063 210,859 1,975,040 At 31 December 2013 Cost 1,518,500 1,383,693 236,264 3,138,457 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,125,856 731,930 1,857,786 Net carrying amount 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 1 A ssets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing property, plant and equipment related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of property, plant and equipment: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment in 2013 relates to long-lived assets at Buzwagi, North Mara and Tulawaka.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
3 2 013 carrying values have been restated to correct the allocation of movements between asset categories.
This has not resulted in a change in the total carrying value.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes emergency back-up and spinning power generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a three-year lease agreement, with an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
The leases have been classified as finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes five drill rigs purchased under short-term finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Cost capitalised finance leases 70,764 70,764 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 53,246 50,091 Net carrying amount 17,518 20,673 21.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2014 evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2014 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2014 Cost 401,250 107,842 509,092 Accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 Net carrying amount 127,898 83,292 211,190 Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2013 evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 170,831 107,390 278,221 1 Additions 136 452 588 2 Impairment 43,069 24,550 67,619 At 31 December 2013 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2013 Cost 401,250 107,842 509,092 Accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 Net carrying amount 127,898 83,292 211,190 1 A dditions to acquired exploration and evaluation properties and goodwill in 2013 related to additional costs related to the final valuation of the acquisition of Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd. 2 T he annual impairment review in 2013 resulted in an impairment of US$21 million to goodwill in North Mara and US$22 million and US$24.6 million to goodwill and acquired exploration and evaluation properties in Tusker Nyanzaga respectively.
130 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: For the year ended 31 December 2014 Discontinued in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu operations Other Total At 1 January 2014 121,546 6,352 127,898 At 31 December 2014 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 28,375 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 13,805 22,023 273,352 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Discontinued in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu operations Other Total At 1 January 2013 21,046 121,546 28,239 170,831 Impairments 21,046 22,023 43,069 Additions 136 136 At 31 December 2013 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 28,375 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 13,805 22,023 273,352 22.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Tax losses 397,153 418,263 Total 397,153 418,263 The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$111 million 2013: US$126 million have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Balance sheet classification Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Property, plant and equipment 357,071 297,421 357,071 297,421 Provisions 10,663 11,756 10,663 11,756 Interest deferrals 23,129 22,960 341 286 22,788 22,674 Tusker acquisition 6,668 7,340 6,668 7,340 Kenya acquisition 2,880 4,565 2,880 4,565 Tax loss carry-forwards 322,116 289,821 322,116 289,821 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 355,908 324,537 366,960 309,612 11,052 14,925 Legal entities Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 30,897 10,098 30,897 10,098 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 21,323 13,594 21,323 13,594 Pangea Minerals Ltd 48,066 48,066 48,066 48,066 Other 2,786 2,721 9,684 12,170 6,898 9,449 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 50,852 50,787 61,904 35,862 11,052 14,925 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$325 million 2013: US$327 million.
Other assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 1 Amounts due from Government 17,055 19,436 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 2,131 2,648 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 50,901 49,389 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 62,247 64,791 Village housing 253 257 Deferred finance charges 433 670 Total 133,020 137,191 1 I ncluded in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$6.6 million 2013: US$13.7 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$6.3 million 2013: US$9.4 million.
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 T he non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using a discount rate of 5% 2013: 5%.
This resulted in a discounting credit of US$3.6 million 2013: a charge of US$1.4 million to the income statement.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Share-based compensation a Share options Share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation Committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year expire between April 2017 and August 2020.
913,032 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2014.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2014 2013 Average Average exercise price exercise price in pence in pence For the year ended 31 December per share Options per share Options At 1 January 373 2,027,206 524 1,703,128 Granted 160 841,308 Forfeited 524 402,703 518 275,909 Expired 551 22,390 533 241,321 At 31 December 332 1,602,113 373 2,027,206 No equity-settled share options were granted during the year.
132 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION b LTIP Restricted Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are RSUs with a fair value of US$1.9 million as at 31 December 2014 2013: US$0.8 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars RSUs US$000 At 1 January 2013 601,417 2,229 Settled for cash 126,793 346 Forfeited 194,214 359 Granted 1,474,902 122 Credits for dividends 43,261 66 Change in value 888 At 31 December 2013 1,798,573 824 Settled for cash 70,831 244 Forfeited 412,056 535 Granted 69,016 14 Credits for dividends 14,032 16 Change in value 1,788 At 31 December 2014 1,398,734 1,863 c LTIP Performance Restricted Share Units PRSUs Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$7.9 million as at 31 December 2014 2013: US$1.8 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars PRSUs US$000 At 1 January 2013 550,124 2,546 Forfeited 443,758 621 Granted 3,215,067 951 Credits for dividends 61,791 71 Change in value 1,125 At 31 December 2013 3,383,224 1,822 Forfeited 134,081 209 Settled for cash 120,934 285 Credits for dividends 35,391 46 Change in value 6,544 At 31 December 2014 3,163,600 7,918 d LTIP Deferred Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.7 million as at 31 December 2014 2013: US$0.2 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars DSUs US$000 At 1 January 2013 48,555 261 Granted 153,508 131 Credits for dividends 6,993 8 Change in value 187 At 31 December 2013 209,056 213 Granted 107,326 131 Credits for dividends 4,269 6 Settled for cash 11,742 41 Change in value 369 At 31 December 2014 308,909 678 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Trade payables 84,023 60,811 Accrued expenses 54,444 41,066 Payroll-related payables 18,922 29,559 Contract retentions 2 390 Royalty payable 1,662 1,759 Trade payables to related parties 15,201 14,311 Total 174,254 147,896 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 30-60 days 27.
Borrowings During 2013, a US$142 million facility theFacility was put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of Acacias key growth projects, the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project the Project.
The Facility is collateralised by the Project, has a term of seven years with a spread over LIBOR of 250 basis points.
The interest rate has been fixed at 3.6% through the use of an interest rate swap.
The seven year Facility is repayable in equal instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two year repayment holiday period.
The first principal payment is due in H2 2015.
The full facility of US$142 million was drawn at the end of 2013.
Interest accrued to the value of US$0.7 million was included in accounts payable at year end.
Interest incurred on the borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swap were capitalised as an asset until the CIL plant was commissioned at the beginning of Q4 2014 and have since been expensed.
An amount of US$1.0 million has been expensed.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2015 and 2050 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
2 O ther provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.
134 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to Government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and waste rock dump closure rehabilitation: surface contouring: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
Acacia prepares estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred and updates expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each year Acacia assesses cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each mineral property to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
Other liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Finance lease liabilities 5,841 10,914 Employee benefit share-based liabilities 10,459 2,859 Other 8,784 8,784 Total 25,084 22,557 Current portion 7,719 12,456 Non-current portion 17,365 10,101 Finance lease liabilities are capitalised at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum.
The lease terms are three and four years, with purchase options at the end of the term.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: No later than 1 year 5,841 11,307 Between 1 and 3 years 5,841 11,307 Future finance charges on finance leases 393 Present value of finance lease liabilities 5,841 10,914 As at As at 31 December 31 December Present value of finance lease liabilities 2014 2013 No later than 1 year 5,841 10,914 Between 1 and 3 years Present value of finance lease liabilities 5,841 10,914 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial assets and liabilities a Financial assets Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 282,409 293,850 282,409 Trade and other receivables 34,989 24,210 34,989 24,210 Derivative financial instruments 2,846 4,619 2,846 4,619 1 Total other assets excluding prepayments 143,351 182,382 143,351 182,382 Total financial assets 475,036 493,620 475,036 493,620 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 282,409 293,850 282,409 Trade and other receivables 34,989 24,210 34,989 24,210 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,366 1,040 1,366 Other current assets excluding prepayments 69,570 106,176 69,570 106,176 Total other non-current financial assets 75,587 79,459 75,587 79,459 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as it is not a financial instrument.
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equal their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value: refer to Note 23.
As at 31 December 2014 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 293,850 Trade and other receivables 34,989 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,806 2,846 Other assets excluding prepayments 143,351 143,351 Total financial assets 472,190 1,040 1,806 475,036 As at 31 December 2013 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 282,409 282,409 Trade and other receivables 24,210 24,210 Derivative financial instruments 1,428 3,191 4,619 Other assets excluding prepayments 182,382 182,382 Total financial assets 489,001 1,428 3,191 493,620 b Financial liabilities Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 2014 2013 Derivative financial instruments 17,808 6,281 17,808 6,281 Trade and other payables 174,254 147,896 174,254 147,896 Other liabilities 25,084 22,557 25,084 22,557 Borrowings 142,000 142,000 142,000 142,000 Total 359,146 318,734 359,146 318,734 Less: Current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 13,729 5,074 13,729 5,074 Trade and other payables 174,254 147,896 174,254 147,896 Other current liabilities 7,719 12,456 7,719 12,456 Borrowings 14,200 14,200 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 149,244 153,308 149,244 153,308 136 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2014 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 16,754 1,054 17,808 Trade and other payables 174,254 174,254 Other liabilities 25,084 25,084 Borrowings 142,000 142,000 Total financial liabilities 16,754 1,054 341,338 359,146 As at 31 December 2013 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 4,311 1,970 6,281 Trade and other payables 147,896 147,896 Other liabilities 22,557 22,557 Borrowings 142,000 142,000 Total financial liabilities 4,311 1,970 312,453 318,734 Revolving credit facility The Group has a revolving credit facility in place for a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million, which was negotiated on 24 November 2010 with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
During 2014, the term of the facility was successfully extended to 2017 at a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
At 31 December 2014, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
Derivative financial instruments The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The Group has derivative financial instruments in the form of economic and cash flow hedging contracts which are all defined as level two instruments as they are valued using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 1,806 1,054 Currency contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 819 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 1,040 11,856 4,079 Total 1,040 1,806 13,729 4,079 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Currency contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 353 Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 3,191 1,168 449 Currency contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 158 3 3,666 387 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 1,208 59 240 18 Total 1,366 3,253 5,074 1,207 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2014 the price ranged from US$1,142 to US$1,385 per ounce, with an average market price of US$1,266 per ounce 2013: US$1,411 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups profit after tax.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain associated with 10% increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Gold 59,472 60,445 Co-product prices In 2014, the copper price ranged from US$2.86 to US$3.37 per pound, with an average market price of US$3.11 per pound 2013: US$3.32 per pound and closing at US$2.88 per pound.
In 2014, the silver price ranged from US$15 to US$22 per ounce, with an average market price of US$19 per ounce 2013: US$24 per ounce.
Our hedging strategy for 2014 was zero-cost collar contracts as a result of improved pricing to manage the impact of the copper price fluctuations.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Group had copper collar contracts for 8.4 million pounds containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.12 per pound and US$3.41 per pound respectively maturing in 2014.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
We entered into new zero cost collar contracts in the second half of of 2014 which will mature in 2015.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other charges in the income statement.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had 3.6 million pounds of copper collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.08 per pound and US$3.35 per pound respectively 2013: average forward rate of US$3.72 per pound.
138 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
The Group enters into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2014, oil prices traded between US$57 and US$115 per barrel with an average market price of US$100 2013: US$109 per barrel.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Oil 3,476 4,239 During the year, the Group added 36,000 barrels of Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2014 consisting of sold put options and bought call options with average strike prices of US$96.25 per barrel and US$110 per barrel respectively.
The designated contracts act as a hedge against variability in market prices, in a pre-defined range, of the cost of future fuel purchases over the next year.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had a total 527,000 barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
These contracts mature in 2015 and 2016 and consist of sold put options with average strike prices of US$97 per barrel and US$85 per barrel and bought call options with average strike prices of US$110 per barrel and US$103 per barrel respectively.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impacts earnings.
During 2014, these hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as they did not meet the hedge effectiveness criteria.
Changes in the fair value of these options were therefore recorded as a component of other charges in the income statement.
Risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings, and South African rands.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in shillings and rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar shilling rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the shilling and rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the shilling rand, which would cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
The Group enters into rand US dollar collar contracts to manage the impact of currency fluctuations on rand denominated operating and capital expenditures.
In 2014, the rand traded between R10.29 and R11.76 per US dollar, and averaged R10.85 per US dollar 2013: R9.63 per US dollar.
The Group added R159 million of rand collar contracts for 2014 with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of R8.90 and R9.80 respectively up to April 2014 to hedge forecasted rand denominated capital spend in part of 2014.
In 2014 no new contracts were entered on forecasted lower rand denominated capital expenditure.
The transactions were classified as economic hedges, not qualifying for hedge accounting treatment as they did not meet the hedge effectiveness requirements.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued At 31 December 2014, the Group had US$26 million of rand collar contracts outstanding containing purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of R10.43 and R12.80 respectively 2013: US$114 million of rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices R9.57 and R11.06 respectively and R171 million of rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of R10.50 and R12.65 respectively.
These contracts all mature in 2015.
The 2014 transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
The contracts booked in the second half of 2015 were booked with rand nominal values and therefore act as a hedge against variability in the rand US dollar exchange rate over the period.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of rand spent during the month.
Hedge effectiveness will be assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impact occurs.
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 108,144 159,824 Total 108,144 159,824 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 12,016 17,758 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 9,831 14,529 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars: interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
During 2013, the Group entered into an Export Credit Insurance Company ECIC backed seven year term loan facility of US$142 million to fund the construction of the CIL Process plant at Bulyanhulu.
As at 31 December 2014 the loan is fully drawn.
Interest is payable on the loan at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the interest on the ECIC backed loan for the Buly CIL Process plant.
The terms of the interest rate swap contracts fix this at 3.59% versus the floating rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure occurs.
For 2014, these gains or losses were capitalised against the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant asset until the plant was brought into operation.
Thereafter the gains or losses have been included as part of interest expense in the income statement.
140 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term to maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are primarily held in United States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
As at 31 December 2014 the Group has money market and short-term investments of US$144.0 million.
All of the funds have at least a BBB rating from Standard and Poors.
The Group also has US$149.9 million of cash on hand with banks with credit ratings ranging from A-1 to A-2.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA.
Following the abolishment of Government Notices regarding VAT relief and fuel duty exemption for mining companies in 2009, Acacia signed a Memorandum of Settlement during 2011 with the TRA to address the treatment of the certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT that allows Acacia to offset income tax payable against outstanding VAT and fuel levy refunds as it becomes payable.
Also, the Minister of Finance reinstated VAT relief and the fuel exemption followed by an agreement to allow for an escrow facility in respect of fuel and road levies.
Through the Finance Act, 2012 issued on 19 October 2012, VAT Relief was again abolished.
Throughout the past two years, Acacia has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian Government and the TRA to resolve the issue.
The amendments conflict with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mine Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
As part of a short-term solution, the Government during the third quarter of 2013, agreed to an escrow arrangement on VAT in relation to imported goods and services, whereby funds are restricted to the repayment of VAT refunds.
As at 31 December 2014, the discounted amounts due to the Group were approximately US$108.1 million prior year US$159.8 million.
We received refunds to the value of US$132.8 million during the year under review.
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of US$32 million 2013: US$71 million were advanced by a financial institution under a factoring agreement.
This agreement reduces the risk of default of receivables.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets described in Note 30.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
At the end of both 2014 and 2013 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 19.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 30.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$238 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures, including capitalised development costs, have averaged about US$230 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 293,850 Accounts receivable 34,989 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,806 2,846 Other assets excluding prepayments 69,570 19,787 53,994 143,351 Total 399,449 21,593 53,994 475,036 For the year ended 31 December 2013 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 282,409 282,409 Accounts receivable 24,210 24,210 Derivative financial instruments 1,366 416 2,428 409 4,619 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 45,191 72,400 64,791 182,382 Total 353,176 72,816 67,219 409 493,620 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as it is not a financial instrument.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 13,729 4,079 17,808 Other liabilities 7,719 8,574 8,791 25,084 1 Trade and other payables 174,254 174,254 Borrowings 14,200 56,800 56,800 14,200 142,000 Total 209,902 69,453 65,591 14,200 359,146 For the year ended 31 December 2013 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 5,074 1,207 6,281 Other liabilities 12,456 1,317 8,784 22,557 1 Trade and other payables 147,896 147,896 Borrowings 42,600 56,800 42,600 142,000 Total 165,426 45,124 65,584 42,600 318,734 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions, which are approved by the Senior Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
142 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 33.
Operating lease arrangements For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 2,506 2,893 Total 2,506 2,893 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Within one year 1,103 1,196 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,518 2,009 After five years 132 423 Total 2,753 3,628 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2014, the Group was a defendant in approximately 289 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts of service, non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime and public holiday compensation.
The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$184.7 million.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
However, in the opinion of the Directors and Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits that have not already been provided for.
Included in the total amounts claimed is an appeal by the TRA intended for a tax assessment of US$21.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Tusker Gold Limited.
The case was awarded in favour of Acacia however the TRA has served a notice of appeal.
The calculated tax assessment is based on the sales price of the Nyanzaga property of US$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%.
Management is of the opinion that the assessment is invalid due to the fact that the acquisition was for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in Australia.
The shareholding of the Tanzanian related entities did not change and the Tusker Gold Limited group structure remains the same as prior to the acquisition.
Also included in the total amounts claimed are TRA claims to the value of US$41.3 million for withholding tax on historic offshore dividend payments paid by Acacia Mining plc to its shareholders.
In addition to the claim, there are six other withholding tax claims which have not been quantified.
These claims are made on the basis that Acacia is resident in Tanzania for tax purposes.
Management are of the opinion that the claims do not have substance and will be successfully defended.
In 2013, a number of Tanzanian claimants represented by Leigh Day initiated proceedings against African Barrick Gold plc now Acacia Mining plc and its subsidiary, North Mara Gold Mine Limited NMGML, in the English Courts in relation to injuries and fatalities at the North Mara mine.
The claims were denied by Acacia Mining and NMGML and the litigation and further claims have been settled out of court.
NMGML and Diamond Motors Ltd DML have entered into arbitration over the interpretation of drilling contracts entered into by the parties, relating to periodic rate review and other provisions of the contracts.
The claim by DML against NMGML is quantified as US$17.2 million, together with interest and unspecified damages.
NMGML has counterclaimed against this amount and raised a provision of US$4.2 million reflecting the view of NMGML as to the proper interpretation and application of the rate review clauses of the contracts.
A claim has been made for US$15 million by the contractor responsible for the engineering, procurement and construction of a carbon in leach circuit at Bulyanhulu Gold Mine BGML.
BGML has made claims in relation to delay damages and other breaches of the contract totalling US$22 million.
Management are of the opinion that it will be successful in respect of both claims.
b Tax-related contingencies The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards.
The Group believes that these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them.
The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA or through the Tanzanian Appeals process.
During 2013, the Board ruled in favour of BGML in relation to seven of ten issues raised by the TRA in final assessments for 2000 2006 years under review.
The TRA filed a notice of intention to appeal against the ruling of the Board and Acacia filed a counter appeal in respect of BGML to the Appeals Tribunal for all three items that were lost.
The Tribunal delivered its judgement in 2014 and confirmed the Boards decision on the three items that Acacia lost.
Following the Tribunals decision, notices of intention to appeal were filed.
The ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Commitments and contingencies continued positions that were ruled against BGML were sufficiently provided for in prior year results and management is of the opinion that open issues will not result in any material liabilities to the Group.
c Exploration and development agreements Mining licences Pursuant to agreements with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Group was issued special mining licences for Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi, North Mara and Tulawaka mines and mining licences for building materials at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi Mines.
The agreement requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of US$5,000 per annum per square kilometre for as long as the Group holds the special mining licences and US$2,000 per annum per square kilometre for so long as the Group holds the mining licences for building materials.
The total commitment for 2015 for the remaining special mining licences and mining licences for building materials amount to US$0.66 million 2014: US$0.65 million.
Subsequent to year-end, the transfer of the Tulawaka Special Mining Licence to STAMICO was approved.
d Purchase commitments At 31 December 2014, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$64 million 2013: US$48 million.
e Capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure of approximately US$20 million 2013: US$6 million.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Provision of goods and services 2,114 927 Purchase of goods and services 3,184 7,329 Interim dividend payments 8,916 40,306 Total 9,986 46,708 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 1 Total 38 37 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Due to holding company: Barrick Gold Corporation 13,396 12,606 Due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 196 83 Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 750 768 Barrick Gold North America 771 374 Other 88 480 Total 15,201 14,311 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
144 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION d Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2014 2013 Short-term employee benefits 9,116 8,034 Post-employment benefits 849 1,155 Other long-term benefits 3,561 Share-based payments 621 64 Total 10,586 12,814 36.
Prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third-party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2014 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for 2015 is US$2.6 million.
Licences directly held by Acacia Active prospecting licences Active prospecting licences managed by Acacia not managed by Acacia Number of Area in square Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres licences kilometres ABG Exploration Limited 99 655 22 159 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 19 102 Nyanzaga Mining Company Limited 14 173 Pangea Mineral Limited 65 555 6 65 Prime Gold Exploration Limited 3 43 2 24 Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited 4 19 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Limited 3 37 7 78 Total 207 1,584 37 326 Licences indirectly held by Acacia Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres Managed by Acacia 1 4 Not managed by Acacia 39 447 37.
Post-balance sheet events A final dividend of US2.8 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of US4.2 cents per share for 2014.
The final dividend is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015 and paid on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2015.
The ex-dividend date is 7 May 2015.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 145
