STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following definitions and terms are used throughout this Annual Report.
In addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves and resources can be found on page 92.
Acacia or the Company Acacia Mining plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187 Acacia Group or the Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings AGM annual general meeting Articles the articles of association of the Company AISC has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures below Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained Au gold Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grams per metric tonne Average realised gold price has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures below per ounce sold Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings Board or Board of Directors the board of directors of Acacia Cash cost per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures below Cash cost per tonne milled has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures below CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Code of Conduct Acacias Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing a high percentage of valuable metal Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the milling process such as copper and silver CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to shares in uncertificatedform Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad CSR corporate social responsibility Cu copper Cut-and-fill a method of stoping in which ore is removed in slices, or lifts, and then the excavation is filled with rock or other waste material backfill, before the subsequent slice is extracted Cut-off grade the minimum metal grade at which material can be economically mined and processed used in the calculation of ore reserves, expressed in grams per metric tonne Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden Directors the directors of Acacia for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 50 to 52 of this AnnualReport Disclosure and Transparency Rules the disclosure and transparency rules made by the FSA under Part VI of FSMA Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 163 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut which crosses the rockformation Drift-and-fill a method of underground mining used for flat-lying mineralisation or where ground conditions are lesscompetent Drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, examined andassayed Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates Drilling: reverse circulation drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather than core.
Air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed EBITDA has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures Executive Director s the executive director of the Company, Brad Gordon Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore Financial Conduct Authority or FCA the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as others sink FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage for most other metals g t gram per metric tonne IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IPO Acacias initial public offering on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange ISO International Organization for Standardisation Koz thousand ounces KPIs key performance indicators Kt thousand metric tonnes LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made in accordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc Long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the drilling of holes up to 30 metres or longer into an ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock which falls into an open space.
The broken rock is extracted and the resulting open chamber may or may not be filled with supporting material Majority Shareholder Barrick MDA a mineral development agreement Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation for treatment Moz million ounces Mt million metric tonnes NGOs non-governmental organisations NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 164 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Non-Executive Directors the Non-Executive Directors of the Company, being as at year end Kelvin Dushnisky, Peter Tomsett, Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, Andre Falzon, Michael Kenyon, Graham Clow, Steve Lucas, Rachel English and Stephen Galbraith Official List the Official List of the Financial ConductAuthority Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the surface.
Also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine Operating cash flow per share has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures below Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed at aprofit Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically Overburden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is removed during surface mining Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold will be readily dissolved oz troy ounce 31.1035g Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the proportion of valuable material physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal Relationship Agreement the relationship agreement between Barrick and Acacia ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick andAcacia SLT or Senior Leadership Team the individuals listed on page 53 or Senior Management Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of providing access to an ore body.
Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers andmaterials Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares Spot or spot price the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally at a discount to the long-term contract price Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore body in preparation for mining by open-pitmethods Tailings the material that remains after all economically and technically recoverable precious metals have been removed from the ore during processing Tailings storage facility a natural or man-made confined area suitable for depositing the material that remains after the treatment of ore TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRIFR total reportable injury frequency rate TZS Tanzanian shilling UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council United Kingdom or UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland United States or US the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia VAT value-added tax VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements VBAs village benefit agreements Voluntary Principles means the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 165 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Non-IFRS measures All-in sustaining cost AISC Acacia has identified certain measures in this report that are not A non-IFRS financial measure.
The measure is in accordance with the measures defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed World Gold Councils guidance issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by by management are provided as additional information to investors in taking the aggregate of cash costs, corporate administration costs, order to provide them with an alternative method for assessing Acacias reclamation and remediation costs for operating mines, corporate social financial condition and operating results.
These measures are not in responsibility expenses, mine exploration and study costs, capitalised accordance with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different from stripping and underground development costs and sustaining capital or inconsistent with non-IFRS financial measures used by other expenditure.
This is then divided by the total ounces sold.
These measures are explained further below.
between cash cost per ounce sold and AISC is presented below: Average realised gold price per ounce sold Year ended 31 December 2014 A non-IFRS financial measure which excludes from gold revenue: Acacia Group Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: and ongoing US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi operations Export duties.
Cash cost per ounce sold 812 623 791 732 Cash cost per ounce sold Corporate administration 49 37 38 46 A non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs include all costs absorbed Share-based payments 3 1 1 12 into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product credits and production Rehabilitation 7 18 5 11 taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from Mine exploration 2 2 1 1 non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and CSR expenses 7 18 12 15 amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost Capitalised development 279 149 147 188 is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Sustaining capital 107 99 60 100 The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows Acacia to Total continuing operations 1,266 947 1,055 1,105 monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a Discontinued operations monthly basis.
Acacia calculates cash costs based on its equity interest Total 1,105 in production from its mines.
Cash costs per ounce sold are calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by gold ounces sold.
Cash costs and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for Year ended 31 December 2013 the periods presented.
Acacia Group The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total ongoing cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi operations Cash cost per ounce sold 890 659 945 812 Year ended 31 December Corporate administration 72 39 52 53 Share-based payments 1 1 3 US$000 2014 2013 Rehabilitation 7 29 15 18 Total cost of sales 688,278 713,806 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 128,124 147,979 Mine exploration 3 12 2 6 CSR expenses 6 31 4 19 Deduct: co-product revenue 45,253 43,012 Total cash cost 514,901 522,815 Capitalised development 233 251 321 266 Sustaining capital 133 207 168 175 Total ounces sold 703,680 643,597 Cash cost per ounce US$ oz 732 812 Total continuing operations 1,344 1,227 1,506 1,346 Discontinued operations 16  15 Attributable cash cost per ounce US$ oz 732 827 Total 1,362 AISC is intended to provide additional information for what the total sustaining cost for each ounce sold is, taking into account expenditure incurred in addition to direct mining costs, depreciation and sellingcosts.
Acacia calculates EBITDA as net profit or loss for the period excluding: Income tax expense: Finance expense: Finance income: Depreciation and amortisation: and Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
166 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and Mining statistical information analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by The following describes certain line items used in the Acacia Groups IFRS and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for discussion of key performance indicators: measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, of open pit ore and waste mined.
and the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, Underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total and therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash amount of underground ore mined and hoisted.
flow from operations as determined under IFRS.
Other companies may calculate EBITDA differently.
Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground ore tonnes hoisted.
A reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDA is Strip ratio measures the ratio waste to ore for open pit presented below: materialmined.
Year ended 31 December Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material US$000 2014 2013 processed through the mill.
Net loss profit for the period 89,935 798,433 Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into a mill for processing.
Plus income tax credit expense 25,977 187,959 1 Plus depreciation and amortisation 128,124 157,820 Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated Plus impairment charges write-offs 1,061,011 as a percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal Plus finance expense 10,081 9,668 originally present.
Less finance income 1,401 1,700 Total production costs measures the total cost of production EBITDA 252,716 240,407 and is an aggregate of total cash costs as well as production 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost specific depreciation and amortisation.
Cash cost per tonne milled A non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash costs per tonne milled are calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Operating cash flow per share A non-IFRS financial measure, calculated by dividing net cash generated by operating activities by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Free cash flow The net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year.
Cash from sustaining operations The cash flow generated post the spend required to sustain the Group and its operations.
It is calculated as free cash flow adjusted for expansionary capital expenditure, exploration, the cash flow associated with one-off type items and other charges, and dividends.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 167 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data Taxes collected This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained on These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others page 42 of this Annual Report.
Generally, the references to Tax in this and pay to Government.
The main taxes that we have included in this context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid by, category are: aGovernment.
Employee payroll taxes In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: These comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee remuneration and paid to Governments, i. e. taxes collected by Acacia and Taxes borne remitted to Governments on behalf of employees under arrangements These are taxes that the Acacia Group is obliged to pay to a Government such as PAYE schemes.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third party and payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and that can cannot be recovered from a Government.
The main taxes that are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year, shortly we have included in this category are: after submission of the return.
Government royalties Withholding taxes collected from suppliers These comprise payments made to Governments in the form of royalties.
These comprise taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on Typically these tend to become payable, and are paid, in the year to payments made to suppliers.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
in income tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and Corporate income tax are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly This comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis of its after the submission of thereturn.
profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected Taxes Refunded in corporate income tax returns made to Governments.
These are taxes that are refunded by Governments to Acacia, and mostly Customs duties comprise the following: These comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to Typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid Governments at the point where goods are imported and exported by Governments regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly from territories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital after the submission of relevant sales tax returns.
Also included are incurred costs.
Employer payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of a companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return.
Environmental taxes These comprise levies or other payments to Governments relating to environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an annual basis.
These taxes are also included in our operating costs.
Indirect taxes These comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on the purchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded by Governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a sales tax return made to Governments.
Refunds received are included in the taxes refunded category.
Stamp duty This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns made to Governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to Governments shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
168 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
