FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC REPORT ON THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL Adequacy of accounting records and information STATEMENTS and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Our opinion in our opinion: In our opinion, Acacia Mining plcs parent company financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we require the financial statements : for our audit: or give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent as at 31 December 2014 and of its loss and cash flows for the year company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received then ended: from branches not visited by us: or have been properly prepared in accordance with International the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting European Union: and records and returns.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration What we have audited Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Acacia Mining plcs financial statements comprise: In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the parent company income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the parent company cash flow statement for the year then ended: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified the parent company statement of changes in equity for the year by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from then ended: and this responsibility.
the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the AND THE AUDIT Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from Our responsibilities and those of the Directors the financial statements and are identified as audited.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the set out on page 91, the Directors are responsible for the preparation preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true as adopted by the European Union.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Consistency of other information Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Companies Act 2006 opinions This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other ISAs UK & Ireland reporting purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information consent in writing.
in the Annual Report is: What an audit of financial statements involves materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit statements: or involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
146 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Acacia Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 Jonathan Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2015 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 147
