GOVERNANCE RESERVES AND RESOURCES Mineral reserves and mineral resources estimates contained in this gathered through appropriate sampling techniques from locations such Annual Report have been calculated as at 31 December 2014 in accordance as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
Geological evidence with National Instrument 43-101 as required by Canadian securities is sufficient to imply but not verify geological and grade or quality regulatory authorities, unless otherwise stated.
An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum CIM definitions were followed for than that applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be mineral reserves and resources.
Calculations have been reviewed, verified converted to a Mineral Reserve.
It is reasonably expected that the including estimation methodology, sampling, analytical and test data and majority of Inferred Mineral Resources could be upgraded to Indicated compiled by Acacia personnel under the supervision of Acacia Qualified Mineral Resources with continued exploration.
Persons: Nic Schoeman, General Manager Technical Services, Haydn An Indicated Mineral Resource Hadlow, Chief Mineral Resources Manager, and Samuel Eshun, Technical The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, Service Manager.
However, the figures stated are estimates and no densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with assurances can be given that the indicated quantities of metal will be sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors in produced.
In addition, totals stated may not add up due torounding.
sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic Mineral reserves have been calculated using an assumed long-term average viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from adequately gold price of US$1,300 per ounce, a silver price of US$20.00 per ounce detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing and is sufficient and a copper price of US$3.00 per pound.
to assume geological and grade or quality continuity between points of observation.
An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of Reserve calculations incorporate current and or expected mine plans confidence than that applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and cost levels at each property and reflect contained ounces.
and may only be converted to a Probable Mineral Reserve.
Mineral resources have been calculated using an assumed long-term average A Measured Mineral Resource gold price of US$1,500 per ounce, a silver price of US$20.00 per ounce and The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, a copper price of US$3.00 per pound and reflect contained ounces.
densities, shape, and physical characteristics are estimated with confidence Resources have been estimated using varying cut-off grades, depending sufficient to allow the application of Modifying Factors to support detailed on the type of mine or project, its maturity and ore types at each property.
mine planning and final evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Reserve estimates are dynamic and are influenced by changing economic Geological evidence is derived from detailed and reliable exploration, conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and any other sampling and testing and is sufficient to confirm geological and grade relevant new information and therefore these can vary from year to year.
or quality continuity between points of observation.
A Measured Mineral Resource estimates can also change and tend to be influenced mostly Resource has a higher level of confidence than that applying to either an by new information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral Resource.
It may be secondly the conversion to ore reserves.
In addition, estimates of inferred converted to a Proven Mineral Reserve or to a Probable Mineral Reserve.
mineral resources may not form the basis of an economic analysis and it A Mineral Reserve cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Therefore, investors are cautioned Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists, may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is defined by that it can be economically or legally mined, or that it will ever be upgraded studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that include to a higher category.
Likewise, investors are cautioned not to assume application of Modifying Factors.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the that all or any part of measured or indicated mineral resources will ever time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
Mineral be upgraded to mineral reserves.
Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Definitions Mineral Reserves and Proven Mineral Reserves.
A Probable Mineral A Mineral Resource Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proven MineralReserve.
A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic interest in or Modifying Factors on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality and quantity that there These are considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Mineral are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific social and governmental factors.
geological evidence and knowledge, including sampling.
Material of economic interest refers to diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, A Probable Mineral Reserve or natural solid fossilised organic material including base and precious The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some metals, coal, and industrial minerals.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence in the in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Mineral Reserve is lower than Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level that applying to a Proven Mineral Reserve.
Probable Mineral Reserve of confidence than that applied to an Indicated Mineral Resource.
estimates must be demonstrated to be economic, at the time of An Indicated Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
an Inferred Mineral Resource but has a lower level of confidence than A Proven Mineral Reserve a Measured Mineral Resource.
The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
A Proven An Inferred Mineral Resource Mineral Reserve implies a high degree of confidence in the Modifying The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality Factors.
Proven Mineral Reserve estimates must be demonstrated to be are estimated on the basis of limited geological evidence and sampling economic, at the time of reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
