STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of change Electronic communications of address or dividend payments should be made to Acacias registrars, Acacia has obtained shareholders consent to send and supply Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details are documents and information to shareholders in electronic form and via asfollows: Acacias website, in accordance with provisions contained in Acacias Articles of Association.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional Bridgwater Road savings to Acacia in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, Bristol as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
BS99 6ZZ The reduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
Helpline number: 44 0 870 707 1895 Shareholder security Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, Computershare online enquiry service offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice Computershare provides a range of services through its online regarding investment matters.
More detailed information can be portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at provided at www.
co. uk Financial calendar This service enables shareholders to check details of their shareholdings Financial year end 31 December 2014 or dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details and Preliminary results for 2014 16 February 2015 access other relevant information.
Annual General Meeting 23 April 2015 Payment of dividends Quarterly results Q1 2015 23 April 2015 Details of dividends proposed in relation to the year are contained in Payment date for 2014 final dividend 29 May 2015 the Directors report on page 87.
Shareholders may elect to receive Half year report 2015 July 2015 payment of the 2014 final dividend and any future dividend in pounds Quarterly results Q3 2015 October 2015 sterling directly to a Bank or Building Society account.
Payments of Quarterly results Q4 2015 January 2016 amounts in US dollars shall be made by cheque and sent by post to shareholders registered addresses on or around 29 May 2015.
Any shareholders who elect to receive a dividend in pounds sterling but who do not provide a direct credit mandate will receive their dividend by cheque, which will be sent to shareholders registered addresses on or around 29 May 2015.
If you wish to receive the 2014 final dividend and any future dividend by direct credit and have not already made a payment election, please request a dividend mandate form from the shareholder helpline and return it to Computershare at the address above by no later than 11 May 2015.
Alternatively, direct credit mandate instructions can be updated online at www.
co. uk Currency Election forms can be returned using the pre-paid envelope provided with the materials accompanying this report.
Elections made after 11 May 2015 will be applied to subsequent dividends only.
Should you have any queries relating to the payment of dividends, please call Computershares shareholder helpline on 44 0 870 707 1895.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 169 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements that express reserves, and to process its mineral reserves successfully and in a or imply expectations of future events or results.
Forward-looking timely manner, Acacias ability to complete land acquisitions required to statements are statements that are not historical facts.
These support its mining activities, operational or technical difficulties which statements include, without limitation, financial projections and may occur in the context of mining activities, delays and technical estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding challenges associated with the completion of projects, risk of trespass, plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future production, theft and vandalism, changes in Acacias business strategy, including operations, costs, projects, and statements regarding future the ongoing implementation of operational reviews, as well as risks and performance.
Forward-looking statements are generally identified hazards associated with the business of mineral exploration, development, by the words plans, expects, anticipates, believes, intends, mining and production and risks and factors affecting the gold mining estimates and other similar expressions.
Although Acacias management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties Acacia cannot give assurances that such statements will prove to be and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Acacia, which correct.
Accordingly, investors should not place reliance on forward-looking could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those statements contained in this report.
expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between Any forward-looking statements in this report only reflect information the actual results, performance and achievements of Acacia include, available at the time of preparation.
Subject to the requirements of the but are not limited to, changes or developments in political, economic Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable or business conditions or national or local legislation or regulation in law, Acacia explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to countries in which Acacia conducts or may in the future conduct update or revise any forward-looking statements in this report, whether business, industry trends, competition, fluctuations in the spot and as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in forward price of gold or certain other commodity prices such as copper this report should be construed as a profit forecast or estimate and no and diesel, currency fluctuations including the US dollar, South African statement made should be interpreted to mean that Acacias profits rand, Kenyan shilling and Tanzanian shilling exchange rates, Acacias or earnings per share for any future period will necessarily match or ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, Acacias ability to recover exceed the historical published profits or earnings per share of Acacia.
its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or 170 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 171 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES 172 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Printed by Pureprint Group Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management.
System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
The CO emissions 2 from the production and distribution of this report have been offset through the purchase of carbon credits.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com Acacia Mining plc Investor Relations Corporate Brokers Auditors 5th Floor Giles Blackham J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd.  LLP No.
1 Cavendish Place Investor Relations Manager 25 Bank Street 1 Embankment Place London W1G 0QF Phone: 44 0 207 129 7150 Canary Wharf London WC2N 6RH United Kingdom E-mail: gblackham@acaciamining.
com London E14 5JP United Kingdom United Kingdom Registered number: 7123187 Registrars RBC Capital Markets Computershare Investor Services PLC Thames Court The Pavilions One Queenhithe Bridgwater Road London EC4V 4DE Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom United Kingdom Additional information Additional information regarding Acacia can be found on our website: www.
