Directors report Other statutory information continued A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a Substantial shareholdings show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result of Interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out in the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the the table below.
The Articles of the Company also allow members, in certain circumstances, to demand that a resolution is decided by The Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and apoll.
Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
As at As at Anyform of proxy must be delivered to the Company not less 31March 27May than48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or 2014 2014 adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment Percentage Percentage Name of holder Number held % Number held % proposes to vote for this purpose, the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
BlackRock 7,247,348 11.3% 6,879,961 10.8% Acorporation which is a member of the Company may authorise Standard Life such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives at any general Investments 4,695,313 7.4% 5,100,245 8.0% meeting of the Company.
Allianz Global No member shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally Investors 4,314,964 6.8% 3,690,884 5.8% orby proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any call or Threadneedle other sum presently payable to the Company in respect of such Investments 2,281,905 3.6% 2,209,783 3.5% share remains unpaid or in certain other circumstances specified inthe Articles of Association where there is default in supplying Oppenheimer Funds 2,203,700 3.5% 2,191,120 3.4% theCompany with information concerning interests in the T Rowe Price Global Companys shares.
Investments 2,035,221 3.2% 2,034,210 3.2% Dividends, distributions and liquidation Legal & General Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary Investment resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the Management 1,961,328 3.1% 1,945,528 3.0% amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company justify Articles of Association such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company of the members, offer any member the right to elect to receive new may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash Act by way of special resolution.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert to the Powers of the Directors Company.
Members may share in surplus assets on a liquidation.
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Companys If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and to any direction the members by special resolution and any other sanction required that may be given by the Company in general meeting by special by law, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of resolution.
Subject to the Companies Act, shares may be issued by the Company and he she can value any assets and determine how Board resolution.
At the Companys last Annual General Meeting, the divisions shall be carried out as between the members or powers were granted to the Directors subject to limits set out in different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the the resolutions to issue and to buy back its own shares: similar whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the powers are proposed to be granted at the forthcoming Annual benefit of the members.
No members can be compelled to accept General Meeting.
The buy-back authority was limited to 10% of the any asset which would give them any liability.
No shares have been bought back under this authority.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the Appointment of Directors transfer of securities or on voting rights, save as described below The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not inrelation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
lessthan two and not more than ten save where members decide otherwise.
Members may appoint Directors by ordinary resolution Change of control and may remove any Director subject to the giving of special All of the Companys share-based plans contain provisions relating notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary to change of control.
Outstanding awards and options normally resolution.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board but are vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the subject to election by members at the first Annual General Meeting satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions at that time.
A Director may be removed from office if requested by all other Directors.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The Companys Articles of Association require that at each AGM of the Company following a takeover bid.
there shall retire from office and be subject to re-election by members any Director who shall have been a Director at the There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors preceding two Annual General Meetings and who was not or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or appointed or re-appointed then or subsequently.
However, in employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company requires all Directors who held office at 31 March 2014 to stand for re-election.
66 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
