STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report Other statutory information Results and dividends The interests all of which are beneficial in the shares of the The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of 51.0 million Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2014 in respect of 2013 45.5 million.
Revenue was 237.3 million 2013 220.2 transactions notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 million and comprised software licences, software maintenance that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows: and services.
At 31March At 31 March 2014 2013 The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 22.0 ordinary ordinary pence per ordinary share 2013 19.5 pence.
If approved at the shares shares forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid Philip Aiken 937 1,000 on 25 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at close of business Philip Dayer 6,562 7,000 on 27 June 2014.
Jonathan Brooks Jennifer Allerton 1,000 Business review and future developments Richard Longdon 246,349 353,159 A review of the Groups operations during the year and its plans for James Kidd 6,901 6,168 the future is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement and the Finance review.
No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares of The Key Performance Indicators used by AVEVA to measure its own the Company between 31 March 2014 and 27 May 2014. performance at the Group level are total revenue, recurring revenue, segment profit contribution, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted Directors share options are disclosed in the Remuneration earnings per share and headcount.
The figures for the year ended Committee report on pages 60 to 61.
31March 2014 are set out on page 25, together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks and No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 26 and 27. than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Research & Development The Group continues an active programme of Research & Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for the Development which covers the updating of and extension to the re-election of all current Directors.
Brief biographical details of all Groups range of products.
Directors appear on pages 42 and 43.
Intellectual property Conflict of interest The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools and Throughout the year the Company has operated effective the products derived from them.
The Directors consider such procedures to deal with potential or actual conflicts of interest.
properties to be of significant value to the business and have a During the year no conflict arose requiring the Board to exercise its comprehensive programme to protect it.
Financial instruments Share capital The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 30 to the discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Going concern The Group has significant financial resources, is profitable and has a Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members strong position in the markets it serves.
At 31 March 2014 the Group may attend any general meeting of the Company.
had cash and treasury deposit balances of 117.5 million 2013 190.4 million and no debt.
Therefore, after making enquiries and There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the considering the cash flow forecasts for the Group, the Directors Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern Conduct Authority whereby Directors and certain employees of basis in preparing the financial statements.
theCompany require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares and pursuant to the Articles of Association where Directors and their interests there is default in supplying the Company with information The Directors who served during the year under review are concerning interests in the Companys shares there are no shownbelow: specialcontrol rights in relation to the Companys shares.
Philip Aiken Chairman Voting rights Philip Dayer Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every Jonathan Brooks Non-Executive Director member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every member who Herv Couturier Non-Executive Director is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution for Richard Longdon Chief Executive every share of which he she is the registered member.
A proxy will James Kidd Chief Financial Officer have one vote for and one vote against a resolution on a show ofhands in certain circumstances specified in the Articles of Association.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising rights.
65 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
