Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Presentation of financial statements General information Vedanta Resources plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and is a London listed diversified global natural resources major.
The Group produces aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, oil & gas and commercial energy.
Vedanta has operations in India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland, Liberia, Australia and Sri Lanka.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and related interpretations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets, fixed rate bonds and defined benefit pension obligations that have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to one decimal of the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities IAS 36 amended Disclosure of non-financial assets impairment IAS 39 amended Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 36 May 2013 Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Oct 2012 Investment entities Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20092011 Cycle May 2012 Amendments to IFRS 1 March 2012 Government loans IAS 28 revised May 2011 Investment in associates and joint ventures Amendments to IAS 12 Dec 2010 Deferred tax: Recovery of underlying assets The Directors anticipated that the adoption of these standards and interpretation in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Adoption of new and revised standards Group has adopted with effect from 1 April 2013, the following new and revised standards and interpretations.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
The following new accounting standards and amendments became effective in the current reporting period: IAS 1: Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Amended This amendment to IAS 1, requires entities to separate items presented in other comprehensive income that can be recycled in income statements at a future period separately from items that will not be recycled in future periods together with their tax effect.
These amendments have been applied retrospectively and affected the presentation of items of comprehensive income and had no impact on the financial performance of the Group.
IAS 19: Employee benefits revised The revised IAS 19 standard on employee benefits has introduced amendments to the accounting for defined benefits plans.
It requires all actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefits plans to be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income and requires the expected return on plan assets which is recognised in the income statement to be calculated based on the rate used to discount the defined benefit obligation.
This differs from the Groups previous policy which was to charge any actuarial gain losses in the income statement.
Hence the Group has recognised all actuarial gains and losses arising on defined benefits plans to other comprehensive income.
The Group has applied the standard retrospectively in accordance with the transitional provisions.
As a result, the adoption of the amendment in IAS 19 has not materially impacted the financial statement.
Impact on the Group financial statement is set out in Note 40.
IFRS 7: Disclosure Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IFRS 7 requires additional disclosures in connection with assets and liabilities which are offset under a master netting agreement.
The amendments to IFRS 7 have not impacted the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 13: Fair value measurement IFRS 13 provides for a framework for measuring fair value when such measurements are required or permitted by other standards.
IFRS 13 also requires specific disclosures on fair values.
These disclosures replace some of the existing disclosure requirements in other standards, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially affected the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
The adoption of IFRS 13 resulted in additional disclosure in the financial statements.
The impact and disclosures are set out in Note 28 to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Presentation of financial statements continued IFRIC 20: Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine IFRIC 20 specifies the accounting for costs associated with waste removal stripping during the production phase of a surface mine.
When the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the current period, the stripping costs are accounted for as the cost of inventory.
When the benefit is the improved access to ore in future periods, the costs are recognised as a non-current asset, if certain criteria are met.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit of production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
As a result of adoption of IFRIC 20, the two key changes to the Groups existing accounting policy is upon initial recognition of the stripping assets and its depreciation based on a unit of production basis compared to recognising it in the income statement.
Accordingly, the application of IFRIC 20 has resulted in increased capitalisation of stripping costs and depreciation and consequential adjustment to cost of sales and inventories.
Comparatives numbers have been restated to give the retrospective impact of adopting IFRIC 20.
The impact is given in Note 40.
The Group has early adopted the following accounting standards and amendments which are endorsed by EU but is effective for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014: IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 establishes the principal for the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements with a new definition of control.
The investor controls an investee when it is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
This definition replaces the pervious guidance on control and consolidation under IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12  Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 does not have any impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 11: Joint arrangements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaced IAS 31 Interest in Joint Ventures and requires investments in joint arrangements classified as either joint ventures or joint operations based on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations based on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
In a joint venture, the parties sharing joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets and must account for their interests in the arrangement using the equity method.
In a joint operation, the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities and must account for the assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses for which they have rights or obligations including their share of such items held or incurred jointly.
The standard removes the option to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation and instead joint arrangements that meet the definition of a joint venture under IFRS 11 must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 11 does not have any impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 12: Disclosure of interest in other entities IFRS 12 applies to entities that have an interest in a subsidiary, a joint arrangement, an associate or unconsolidated structured entities.
IFRS 12 requires an entity to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the nature and risk associated with the interest in other entities.
These disclosures are set out within the relevant notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the going concern basis of accounting.
The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the Groups current and forecast financing position, additional details of which are provided in the Going Concern section of the Strategic Report.
Parent Company financial statements The financial statements of the parent Company, Vedanta Resources plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, UK accounting presentation and UK company law.
The Company Balance Sheet is presented in Note 46.
2 a Accounting policies Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated financial information incorporates the results of the Company and all its subsidiaries the Group, being the companies that it controls.
Control is evidenced where the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Power is demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect the entity returns.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with accounting policies used by the Group.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheet.
132 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 2 a Accounting policies continued For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the noncontrolling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity.
In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is considered when there is contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has joint operations within its oil & gas segment, the Group participates in several unincorporated joint operations which involve the joint control of assets used in oil & gas exploration and producing activities.
The Group accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of joint ventures in which the Group holds an interest, classified in the appropriate balance sheet and income statement headings.
In addition, where the Group acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint operations are included in the Group balance sheet.
Restatement The Group has restated the financial performance and position for the year ended 31 March 2013 to give effect of the new accounting pronouncements that became applicable with effect from the accounting period beginning from 1 April 2013 Note 40.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the net invoice value of goods and services provided to third parties after deducting discounts, volume rebates, outgoing sales taxes and duties, and are recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer or services have been provided.
Certain of the Groups sales contracts provide for provisional pricing based on the price on the London Metal Exchange Limited LME, as specified in the contract, when shipped.
Final settlement of the prices is based on the applicable price for a specified future period.
The Companys provisionally priced sales are marked to market using the relevant forward prices for the future period specified in the contract with a corresponding adjustment to revenue.
Revenue from oil, gas and condensate sales represent the Groups share of oil, gas and condensate production, recognised on a direct entitlement basis, and tariff income received for third party use of operating facilities and pipelines in accordance with agreements.
Revenue from holding certificate contracts is recognised when goods have been delivered to a distribution warehouse or has been identified and kept separately, have been inspected by a nominee of the buyer and cash has been received.
Under these arrangements, revenue is recognised once legal title has passed and all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer.
Revenue from the sale of power is recognised when the electricity is delivered and measured based on contractually agreed tariff rates as approved by the electricity regulatory authorities.
Revenues from sale of material by-products are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods sold are transferred to the customer.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis in the income statement.
Special items Special items are those items that management considers, by virtue of their size or incidence including but not limited to voluntary retirement schemes and acquisition and restructuring related costs, should be disclosed separately to ensure that the financial information allows an understanding of the underlying performance of the business in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the years result and require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 97.
The determination as to which items should be disclosed separately requires a degree of judgement.
Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
The acquirers identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
To the extent that such excess purchase consideration relates to the acquisition of mining properties and leases, that amount is capitalised within property, plant and equipment as mining properties and leases.
To the extent that such excess purchase consideration relates to the acquisition of oil & gas properties, that amount is capitalised within property, plant and equipment as exploratory and evaluation assets.
Other excess purchase consideration relating to the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued Where the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities exceed the cost of acquisition, the surplus is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where it is not possible to complete the determination of fair values by the date on which the first post-acquisition financial statements are approved, a provisional assessment of fair values is made and any adjustments required to those provisional fair values, and the corresponding adjustments to purchased goodwill, are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net assets or proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
This accounting choice is made on a  basis.
Acquisition expenses are charged to the income statement in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008.
If the Group acquires a group of assets or equity in a company that does not constitute a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 revised, the cost of the acquired group of assets or equity is allocated to the individual identifiable assets acquired based on their relative fair value.
Intangible assets Intangibles assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The Group determines the amortisation period as the period over which the future economic benefits will flow to Group after taking into account all relevant facts and circumstance.
Amortisation method, residual values and estimated useful life of intangible assets are reviewed annually and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The Group dont have any intangible assets for which useful life is indefinite.
Intangible assets arising out of service concession arrangements are accounted for as intangible assets where the Company has a contractual right to charge users of services when the projects are completed and is measured at the cost of such construction services completed.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the balance of licence period, usually between 3 to 30 years.
Property, plant and equipment Relating to mineral assets mining properties and leases The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment under the heading Mining properties and leases in the year in which they are incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is viable for commercial production i. e. when the Group determines that the mining property will provide sufficient and sustainable returns relative to the risk and decides to proceed with the development, all further pre-production primary development expenditure other than land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised as part of the cost of the mining property until the mining property is capable of commercial production.
From that point, capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised on a unit-of-production basis over the total estimated remaining commercial reserves of each property or group of properties.
Exploration and evaluation assets acquired are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition subject to meeting the commercial production criteria mentioned above and are subject to impairment review on an annual basis.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred after obtaining the right to mine or the legal right to explore, is capitalised as property, plant and equipment and stated at cost less the impairment.
Exploration and evaluation assets are transferred to property, plant and equipment when the technical feasibility and commercial viability has been determined.
Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment and impairment loss, if any, is recognised prior to reclassification.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred prior to obtaining the mining right or the legal right to explore are expensed as incurred.
The stripping cost incurred during the production phase of a surface mine is deferred to the extent the current period stripping cost exceeds the average period stripping cost over the life of the mine and recognised as an asset if such cost provides a benefit in terms of improved access to ore in future periods and certain criteria are met.
Deferred stripping costs are included in mining properties within property, plant and equipment and disclosed as a part of mining properties.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a unit of production method over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body.
In circumstances where a mining property is abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs relating to the property are written-off in the period in which it occurs i. e. when the Group determines that the mining property will provide sufficient and sustainable returns relative to the risks and the Group decides to proceed with the mine development.
Commercial reserves are proved and probable reserves as defined by the JORC Code and SAMREC Code.
Changes in the commercial reserves affecting unit of production calculations are dealt with prospectively over the revised remaining reserves.
134 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 2 a Accounting policies continued Relating to oil & gas assets Exploration & evaluation assets and developing producing assets For oil & gas assets a successful efforts-based accounting policy is followed.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the income statement.
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis.
Costs are held, are not amortised or depreciated, within exploration and evaluation assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered.
Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil & gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within property, plant and equipment, exploration and evaluation assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities.
Exploration drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established.
The success or failure of each exploration effort is judged on a well-by-well basis.
Drilling costs are written-off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial.
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related capitalised exploration costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant and equipment development producing assets after testing for impairment.
Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written-off to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within property, plant and equipment development producing assets on a field-by-field basis.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development producing asset or replaces part of the existing development producing asset.
Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed.
Net proceeds from any disposal of an exploration asset are initially credited against the previously capitalised costs.
Any surplus proceeds are credited to the income statement.
Net proceeds from any disposal of development producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost.
A gain or loss on disposal of a development producing asset is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs of the asset.
Other property, plant and equipment The initial cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, and any directly attributable costs of bringing an asset to working condition and location for its intended use, including relevant borrowing costs and any expected costs of decommissioning.
Expenditure incurred after the property, plant and equipment have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the costs are incurred.
Major shut-down and overhaul expenditure is capitalised as the activities undertaken improve the economic benefits expected to arise from the asset.
Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
At the point when an asset is operating at managements intended use, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment and depreciation commences see below.
Costs associated with the commissioning of an asset and any obligatory decommissioning costs are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels until a period of commissioning has been completed.
Revenue generated from production during the trial period is capitalised.
Borrowing costs and certain foreign exchange gains or losses are in certain circumstances capitalised in the cost of the asset under construction.
This policy is set out under Borrowing Costs.
Depreciation and amortisation Relating to mining properties Mining properties and other assets in the course of development or construction, freehold land and goodwill are not depreciated or amortised.
Capitalised mining properties and lease costs are amortised once commercial production commences, as described in Property, plant and equipment mining properties and leases.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the period of the lease or, if shorter, their useful economic life.
Relating to oil & gas assets All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil & gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, generally on a field-by-field basis or group of fields which are reliant on common infrastructure.
Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil & gas reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs required to access commercial reserves.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued Others Other buildings, plant and equipment, office equipment and fixtures, and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Buildings operations 30 years Administration 50 years Plant and equipment 1030 years Office equipment and fixtures 320 years Motor vehicles 911 years Major overhaul costs are depreciated over the estimated life of the economic benefit derived from the overhaul.
The carrying amount of the remaining previous overhaul cost is charged to the income statement if the next overhaul is undertaken earlier than the previously estimated life of the economic benefit.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale or which is part of a disposal Group held for sale is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale is carried at the lower of its carrying value and fair value less disposal cost and is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Impairment Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statements of income.
Any cumulative loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset recognised previously in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated statements of income on recognition of impairment.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost and available-for-sale financial assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in the consolidated statements of income.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the change in fair value is recognised directly in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The allowance accounts in respect of trade and other receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Company is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at that point the amounts are considered irrecoverable and are written-off against the financial asset directly.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable and, as noted above, the carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually.
When performing an impairment test, an assessment is made to determine whether the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Whenever the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
The Group reviews the residual value and useful life of an asset at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate.
For mining properties and leases, oil & gas assets, other investments and goodwill, the recoverable amount of an asset is determined on the basis of its value in use, being the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life, discounted using a market-based, risk-adjusted, discount rate.
For other property, plant and equipment, the recoverable amount of an asset is also considered on the basis of its net selling price, where it is possible to assess the amount that could be obtained from the sale of an asset in an arms length transaction, less the cost of disposal.
Recoverable amounts are estimated for individual assets or, if this is not possible, for the relevant cash-generating unit.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable from the date of classification, management are committed to the sale and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
136 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 2 a Accounting policies continued Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as and when the related expenditure is incurred.
Inventories Inventories and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less any provision for obsolescence.
Cost is determined on the following bases: Purchased copper concentrate is recorded at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: all other materials including stores and spares are valued on weighted average basis: except at Cairn where stores and spares are valued at FIFO basis Finished products are valued at raw material cost plus costs of conversion, comprising labour costs and an attributable proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal levels of activity: and by-products and scrap are valued at net realisable value Net realisable value is determined based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Exceptions to this principle are: Tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future Deferred income tax is not recognised on the impairment of goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes or on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination, which at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority upon a specific entity and the relevant Group entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates or participates in a number of defined benefits and contribution schemes, the assets of which are where funded held in separately administered funds.
For defined benefit schemes the cost of providing benefits under the plans is determined each year separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method by independent qualified actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and is not recycled to the income statement.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Defined benefit costs are split into Current service cost, past service cost, net interest expense or income and remeasurement.
Current service cost and past service costs is recognised with in cost of sales and administrative expenses.
Net interest expense or income is recognised within finance costs.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued Share-based payments Certain employees including Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined with the assistance of an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably estimated, will be required to settle such an obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to net present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Unwinding of the discount is recognised in the income statement as a finance cost.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mine or oil fields.
Costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work are provided for based on their discounted net present value, with a corresponding amount being capitalised at the start of each project.
The amount provided for is recognised, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged to the income statement over the life of the operation through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
The cost estimates are reviewed periodically and are adjusted to reflect known developments which may have an impact on the cost estimates or life of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision due to factors such as updated cost estimates, new disturbance and revisions to discount rates.
The adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The unwinding of the discount is shown as a finance cost in the income statement.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is caused on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and charged to the income statement as extraction progresses.
Where the costs of site restoration are not anticipated to be significant, they are expensed as incurred.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Income Statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
The Group has reviewed the terms and conditions of the lease arrangements and determined that all risks and rewards of ownership lie with the Group and has therefore accounted for the contracts as finance leases.
Foreign currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all principal operating subsidiaries, the functional currency is the local currency of the country in which it operates with the exception of KCM and Cairn which has a US dollar functional currency as that is the currency of primary economic environment in which it operates.
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated into the functional currency at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are included in the income statement, except, where the monetary item is designated as an effective hedging instrument of the currency risk of designated forecast sales, where exchange differences are recognised in equity and exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings relating to asset under construction, and for future productive use, which are included in the cost of those assets when they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on those foreign currency borrowings.
For the purposes of consolidation, the income statement items of those entities for which the US dollar is not the functional currency are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange during the period.
The related balance sheets are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of such operations, and on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
138 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 2 a Accounting policies continued On disposal of entities with a different functional currency to the Companys functional currency, the deferred cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity relating to that particular operation would be recognised in the income statement.
Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are classified as available for sale under IAS 39 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on financial asset investments are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled to the income statement.
Investments in unquoted equity instruments that do not have a market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at cost.
Investments in equity instruments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Liquid investments Liquid investments represent short-term current asset investments that do not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents for one or more of the following reasons: They have a maturity profile greater than 90 days.
They may be subject to a greater risk of changes in value than cash.
They are held for investment purposes.
The value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits with banks and short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an event, which based on previous experience, is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the trade receivables.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity are accounted for as compound instruments.
The equity components and the liability components are separated out on the date of the issue.
The equity component is recognised in a separate reserve and is not subsequently remeasured.
The liability component is held at amortised cost.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the effective interest rate, being the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between this amount and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
Convertible bonds not denominated in the functional currency of the issuing entity or where a cash conversion option exists, are split into two components: a debt component and a component representing the embedded derivative in the convertible bond.
The debt component represents a liability for future coupon payments and the redemption on the principal amount.
The embedded derivative, a financial liability, represents the value of the option that bond holders have to convert into ordinary shares.
At inception the embedded derivative is recorded at fair value and the remaining balance, after deducting a share of issue costs, is recorded as the debt component.
Subsequently, the debt component is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with the change in the fair value recognised in the income statement.
The embedded derivative and the debt component are disclosed together and the current non-current classification follows the classification of the debt component which is the host contract.
The deferred tax effect arising on the movement in the fair value of the embedded derivative is recognised through the income statement.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 a Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time that the assets are substantially ready for their intended use in accordance with the Group policy which is when they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available out of money borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from such short-term investments is also capitalised to reduce the total capitalised borrowing cost.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Capitalisation of interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the assets ready for their intended use are complete or when delays occur outside of the normal course of business.
Available for sale financial assets Listed equity shares and debt instruments held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available for sale AFS financial assets and are stated at fair value.
Dividends received from investees accounted for as equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive the payment is established.
Financial instruments fair value through profit and loss Held for trading financial assets Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term.
The change in fair value of trading investments incorporates any dividend and interest earned on the held for trading investments and is accounted for in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks, the Group enters into forward contracts, option contracts, swap contracts and other derivative financial instruments.
The Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the income statement and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in equity.
This includes certain non-derivative liabilities that are designated as instruments used to hedge the foreign currency risk on future, highly probable, forecast sales.
Amounts deferred to equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of a net investment hedge is recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement immediately.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
140 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty In the course of applying the policies outlined in Note 2 a, management made estimations and assumptions that impact the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Vedanta believes that judgement and estimation has been made in the following areas: Oil & gas reserves Oil & gas reserves are estimated on a proved and probable entitlement interest basis.
Proven and probable reserves are estimated using standard recognised evaluation techniques.
The estimate is reviewed regularly.
Future development costs are estimated taking into account the level of development required to produce the reserves by reference to operators, where applicable, and internal engineers.
Net entitlement reserves estimates are subsequently calculated using the Groups current oil price and cost recovery assumptions, in line with the relevant agreements.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could impact the depreciation rates, carrying value of assets and environmental and restoration provisions.
Carrying value of exploration and evaluation fixed assets Where a project is sufficiently advanced the recoverability of IFRS 6 Exploration assets are assessed by comparing the carrying value to internal and operator estimates of the net present value of projects.
Exploration assets are inherently judgemental to value and further details on the accounting policy are included in accounting note above.
The amounts for exploration and evaluation assets represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will be written-off to the income statement as exploration costs unless commercial reserves are established or the determination process is not completed and there are no indications of impairment.
The outcome of ongoing exploration, and therefore whether the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain.
Carrying value of developing producing oil & gas assets Management perform impairment tests on the Groups developing producing oil & gas assets at least annually with reference to indicators in IAS 36.
Key assumptions in the impairment models relate to prices that are based on forward curves for two years and the long-term appropriate assumptions thereafter and discount rates that are adjusted to risk to reflect conditions specific to individual assets.
Other key assumptions in the impairment models based on management expectations are that government approval will be received to further increase production rates and that the Enhanced Oil Recovery program will be successfully implemented.
Mining properties and leases The carrying value of mining property and leases is arrived at by depreciating the assets over the life of the mine, using the unit of production method based on proved and probable reserves.
The estimate of reserves is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and may change when new information becomes available.
Changes in reserves as a result of factors such as production cost, recovery rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could thus impact the carrying values of mining properties and leases and environmental and restoration provisions.
Useful economic lives and impairment of other assets Property, plant and equipment other than mining properties, oil & gas properties, and leases are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the useful economic lives at least once a year and any changes could affect the depreciation rates prospectively and hence the asset carrying values.
The Group also reviews its property, plant and equipment, including mining properties and leases, for possible impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
In assessing the property, plant and equipment for impairment, factors leading to significant reduction in profits such as changes in commodity prices, the Groups business plans and changes in regulatory environment are taken into consideration.
The carrying value of the assets of a cash generating unit CGU is compared with the recoverable amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future cash flows.
This involves management estimates on commodity prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory climates, long-term plan, discount rates and other factors.
Any subsequent changes to cash flow due to changes in the above mentioned factors could impact on the carrying value of the assets.
Assessment of impairment at Lanjigarh Refinery The Group has considered that the delay in obtaining regulatory approval for the expansion of the alumina refinery at Lanjigarh and regulatory approval for bauxite mining as an indication of impairment.
Hence, the Group have reviewed the carrying value of its property, plant and equipments at Lanjigarh as at balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of these assets and concluded that there was no impairment because the recoverable amount estimated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amounts.
The key assumptions and estimates used in determining the value in use of these assets were: The State of Odisha has abundant bauxite resources and under the terms of the memorandum of understanding MOU with the Government of Odisha, management is confident that bauxite will be made available in the short to medium-term.
The Company is also considering purchase sourcing bauxite from alternate sources to support the existing and expanded refinery operations.
In the initial years, the Company has assumed that bauxite will be purchased from third party suppliers in India and other countries, till the bauxite is sourced from our own mines.
The State of Odisha has taken certain measures including reservation of areas for mining operations or undertaking prospecting and the constitution of a Ministerial Committee for the formulation of a policy for the supply of ores to Odisha-based industries on a long-term basis.
The management expects that the conditions for the construction of the alumina refinery will be fulfilled and it is assumed that the approval for the expansion of the refinery would be received for commencement of production by fiscal 2018.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 b Critical accounting judgement and estimation uncertainty continued Management expects that the mining approvals for mining and the statutory approvals for the expansion project will be received as anticipated.
Additionally the Group carries out impairment assessment for carrying value of these assets, every half year and challenges these assumptions.
As at 31 March 2014 the carrying amount of property plant and equipment related to alumina refinery operations at Lanjigarh and related mining assets is US$1,231 million 31 March 2013: US$1,423.6 million.
Assessment of impairment of Karnataka and Goa iron ore mines Karnataka mining The mining ban in Karnataka was lifted on 17 April 2013.
The Group has complied with all conditions for the recommencement of operations, and mining operations resumed in December 2013 with a production 1.5 million tonnes during the year.
The carrying value of assets as at 31 March 2014 is US$260.4 million 31 March 2013: US$296 million.
Goa mining The Supreme Court passed an order on 21 April 2014 whereby the ban was lifted, subject to certain conditions.
The key conditions are as follows The maximum annual excavation for Goa has been limited to 20 million tonnes until the Expert Committee issues determines the final annual capacity of mining at Goa.
All mining leases in the State of Goa are suspended and State Government would grant mining leases in accordance with the Mines and Minerals Development and regulation Act, 1957.
10% of the sale price of the iron ore sold by the mining lessees to be contributed to a separate fund.
Out of the sale proceeds of excavated ore, the leaseholders would be paid only the average cost of excavation of iron ore and the balance amount to be allocated amongst various affected stakeholders and the Government of Goa.
Vedanta is expecting to start mining activities at iron ore mines at Goa in the second half of fiscal 2015, after receipt of all regulatory clearances and approving of mining leases.
Management has reviewed the carrying value of the assets as at balance sheet date, estimated the recoverable amounts of these assets and concluded that there was no impairment because the recoverable amount estimated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amounts.
The carrying value of assets affected as at 31 March 2014 is US$1,045.0 million 31 March 2013: US$799 million.
Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs Provision is made for costs associated with restoration and rehabilitation of mining sites as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
Such restoration and closure costs are typical of extractive industries and they are normally incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
The costs are estimated on the basis of closure plans and the estimated discounted costs of dismantling and removing these facilities and the costs of restoration are capitalised when incurred reflecting Companys obligations at that time.
A corresponding provision is created on the liability side.
The capitalised asset is charged to the income statement over the life of the asset through depreciation over the life of the operation and the provision is increased each period via unwinding the discount on the provision.
Management estimates are based on local legislation and or other agreements.
The actual costs and cash outflows may differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, changes in prices, analysis of site conditions and changes in restoration technology.
Provisions and liabilities Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events that can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances which may be subject to change especially when taken in the context of the legal environment in India.
The actual cash outflows may take place over many years in the future and hence the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are regularly reviewed and adjusted to take into account the changing circumstances and other factors that influence the provisions and liabilities.
Contingencies and commitments In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise from litigation and other claims against the Group.
Where it is managements assessment that the outcome cannot be reliably quantified or is uncertain the claims are disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the likelihood of an adverse outcome is remote.
Such liabilities are disclosed in the notes but are not provided for in the financial statements.
Although there can be no assurance regarding the final outcome of the legal proceedings, the Group does not expect them to have a materially adverse impact on the Groups financial position or profitability.
The HZL and BALCO call options The Group had exercised its call option to acquire the remaining 49% interest in BALCO and 29.5% interest in HZL.
The Government of India has however, contested the validity of the options and disputed their valuation performed in terms of the relevant agreements the details of which are set out in Note 39.
In view of the lack of resolution on the options, the non-response to the exercise and valuation request from the Government of India, the resultant uncertainty surrounding the potential transaction and the valuation of the consideration payable, the Group considers the strike price of the options to be at fair value, which is effectively nil, and hence the call options have not been recognised in the financial statements.
142 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 3.
Segment information The Groups primary format for segmental reporting is based on its business segments.
The business segments consist of zinc, iron ore, copper, aluminium, power and oil & gas with components not meeting the quantitative threshold for reporting being reported as Others.
Business segment financial data includes certain corporate costs, which have been allocated on an appropriate basis.
The risks and returns of the Groups operations are primarily determined by the nature of the different activities in which the Group is engaged.
Inter-segment sales are charged based on prevailing market prices.
The Groups activities are organised on a global basis.
Vedanta Resources plc is company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups reportable segments defined in accordance with IFRS 8 are as follows: Zinc-India Zinc-International Oil & gas Iron Ore Copper-India Australia Copper-Zambia Aluminium Power Management monitors the operating results of reportable segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and for assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the EBITDA of each segment.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
Items after operating profit are not allocated by segment.
2 Depreciation and amortisation is also provided to the chief operating decision maker on a regular basis.
3 Transfer prices between operating segment sales are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties except from power segment sales amounting to US$36.6 million for the year ended 31 March 2014 March 2013: US$9.8 million, which is at cost.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 143 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
2 This segment has been restated as a result of reallocation of intercompany sales via an external agent.
b Geographical segmental analysis The Groups operations are located in India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Liberia, Ireland, Australia, UAE and Sri Lanka.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by country in which the customer is located, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
Year Year ended ended 31 March 31 March 2013 US$ million 2014 Restated India 8,234.1 9,477.6 China 1,742.0 2,113.0 Far East Asia 1,003.2 672.5 Middle East 724.2 829.2 Europe 537.0 1,003.0 Africa 213.0 278.1 Asia Others 83.8 133.5 UK 19.1 Other 388.6 133.3 Total 12,945.0 14,640.2 144 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 3.
Segmental information continued The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment, analysed by the country in which the assets are located.
No material non-current assets are located in the United Kingdom and no significant additions to property, plant and equipment have been made there.
Total revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Revenue from sales of goods 12,945.0 14,640.2 Other operating income 84.0 90.3 Investment revenue 687.7 669.0 13,716.7 15,399.5 5.
Special items Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Voluntary retirement schemes redundancy costs 15.1 9.4 1 Impairment of mining reserves and assets 81.6 2 Acquisition & restructuring related costs 2.6 4.7 3 Land regularisation fee 16.6 4 Provision for contractor dispute 22.1 5 Tuticorin plant compensation 18.4 6 Project cost write off 9.4 138.0 41.9 1 Impairment for the year ended 31 March 2014 includes: US$47.5 million, impairment of mining reserve and land assets at Lisheen.
This is as a result of fall in the forecasted LME prices of Zinc and Lead.
US$11.0 million, impairment of mining assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium at Lanjigarh as the MOEF has rejected the Stage II forest clearance for the Niyamgiri mining project.
US$23.1 million, impairment of COP F&D mining assets of KCM at Nchanga, Zambia as the mine has been put under maintenance following a dispute with the mining contractor.
2 Acquisition related costs include costs of Group simplification and restructuring and other acquisition related costs.
3 Payments made pursuant to amendment during the Year ended 31 March 2014 under the Land Revenue Code for regulating mining dumps at Goa.
4 Relates to a provision recognised following a dispute with a mining contractor at Copper Zambia.
5 The Supreme Court of India, had issued the final judgement dated 2 April 2013 on Sesa Sterlite, a subsidiary of the Group to pay compensation of US$18.4 million to be deposited within three months from the date of the order with the local authority of Tuticorin.
6 Write off of initial project cost at Copper Zambia, as the project was not deemed economically viable.
The tax effect of the special items during the year ended 31 March 2014 is US$29.4 million.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 145 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Investment revenue Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Interest income on loans and receivables 31.3 29.7 Interest income on cash and bank balances 202.3 183.3 Change in fair value of financial assets held for trading 383.5 188.9 Profit on disposal of financial assets held for trading 65.1 115.5 Dividend income on financial assets held for trading 0.9 89.9 Profit on sale of available-for-sale investment 56.1 Foreign exchange gain loss on cash and liquid investments 4.8 6.7 Capitalisation of interest income 0.2 1.1 687.7 669.0 7.
Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Interest on loans, overdrafts and bonds 1,031.1 929.9 Coupon interest on convertible bonds Note 27 108.7 138.7 Accretive interest on convertible bonds Note 27 187.2 168.9 Other borrowing and finance costs 83.5 147.0 Total interest cost 1,410.5 1,384.5 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 29 21.8 27.6 Net interest on defined benefit arrangements Note 32 6.8 6.1 1 Capitalisation of borrowing costs Note 17 83.4 228.3 1,355.7 1,189.9 1 All borrowing costs are capitalised using rates based on specific borrowings.
Other gains and losses net Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Foreign exchange gains and losses 370.0 336.2 Qualifying exchange losses capitalised Note 17 73.0 86.3 Change in fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value 1.1 5.3 Change in fair value of embedded derivative on convertible bonds Note 27 4.7 24.7 Loss arising on qualifying hedges and non-qualifying hedges 70.6 54.7 364.0 285.2 9.
Profit for the year has been stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Depreciation & amortisation 2,203.1 2,337.2 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 4,014.2 4,364.7 Auditors remuneration for audit services 2.4 2.9 Research and development 0.5 0.5 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.4 11.6 Provision for receivables 35.5 Impairment of mining reserves and assets 81.6 Staff costs 801.6 725.6 Net foreign exchange losses 320.2 262.0 146 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 10.
Auditors remuneration The table below shows the fees payable globally to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for statutory external audit and audit related services, as well as fees paid to other accountancy firms for statutory external audit and audit related services in each of the two years ended 31 March: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of Vedanta Resources plc annual accounts 0.8 0.7 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.6 2.2 Total audit fees 2.4 2.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.3 2 Tax services 0.5 0.4 3 Corporate finance services 0.6 2.2 4 Other services 0.4 0.3 Total non-audit fees 2.8 4.2 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor 5.2 7.1 Audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 Non-audit fees payable to other auditors of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total fees paid to other auditors 0.6 0.6 1 Other services pursuant to legislation principally comprise assurance services, being quarterly reviews of the Groups subsidiaries results and the half year review of the Groups results.
2 Tax services principally comprise certification and assurance services as required by Indian tax regulations.
3 Corporate finance services principally comprise Group simplification and other acquisition related certifications.
These assurance-related services are ordinarily provided by the auditor.
Employee numbers and costs Average number of persons employed by the Group in the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March Class of business 2014 2013 Zinc 7,681 8,056 India 5,797 6,164 International 1,884 1,892 Iron ore 3,708 4,376 Copper 9,142 9,891 India Australia 1,268 1,347 Zambia 7,874 8,544 Aluminium 6,404 6,840 Power 349 358 Oil & gas 1,734 1,416 Other 136 134 29,154 31,071 Costs incurred during the year in respect of employees and Executive Directors Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Salaries and wages 726.3 650.7 Defined contribution pension scheme costs Note 32 25.7 26.2 Defined benefit pension scheme costs Note 32 16.7 23.2 Share-based payments charge 32.9 25.5 801.6 725.6 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 147 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Current tax: UK Corporation tax 19.3 0.9 Foreign tax India 494.4 855.3 Australia 0.8 16.1 Africa and Europe 37.7 39.3 Other 3.7 6.6 554.3 918.2 Deferred tax: Note 30 Current year movement in deferred tax 425.6 872.1 425.6 872.1 Total tax expense 128.7 46.1 Effective tax rate 11.5% 2.7% Consequent to the effectiveness of the scheme of merger Note 44, tax effects on current deferred tax has been given effect to in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The deferred tax benefit recycled from equity to the income statement is US$0.3 million 2013: US$5.3 million.
The tax rate has gone up during the year from 2.7% to 11.5% largely on account of a credit of US$290 million in Cairn India due to reorganisation in previous year.
The impact of tax reversal of US$257 million during the year on account of the Sesa Sterlite merger was largely offset by creating deferred tax liability on fair values at Cairn India on account of increase in surcharge by 5% and certain one time provisions.
Deferred tax recognised in the income statement: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Accelerated capital allowances 463.1 307.1 Unutilised tax losses 517.1 9.2 Other temporary differences 371.6 574.2 425.6 872.1 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$6,662.7 million 2013: US$7,248.4 million.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before tax at the Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2014 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Accounting profit before tax 1,118.1 1,723.7 At Indian statutory income tax rate of 33.99% 2013: 32.45% 380.0 559.3 Unrecognised tax losses 110.6 270.9 Disallowable expenses Dividend Distribution Tax Other permanent differences 133.4 48.2 Non-taxable income 63.0 106.9 Impact relating to changes in tax rate 407.4 211.3 Tax holiday and similar exemptions 642.0 959.9 Minimum alternative tax 31.3 0.8 Adjustments in respect of previous years 9.5 24.0 Sesa Sterlite merger impact 175.9 At effective income tax rate of 11.5% 2013: 2.7 % 128.7 46.1 148 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 13.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
24,206,816 treasury shares are excluded from the total outstanding shares for the calculation of EPS.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options and the Groups convertible bonds.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Net loss profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 196.0 162.0 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2014 2013 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share million 273.5 272.9 Effect of dilution: Share options 8.0 4.8 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 281.5 277.7 Earnings per share based on loss profit for the year Basic earnings per share on loss profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2014 2013 Loss profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 196.0 162.0 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 273.5 272.9 Earnings per share on loss profit for the year US cents per share 71.7 59.4 Diluted earnings per share on loss profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2014 2013 Loss profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 196.0 162.0 Loss profit for the year after dilutive adjustment US$ million 196.0 162.0 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 273.5 277.7 Diluted earnings per share on loss profit for the year US cents per share 71.7 58.3 The effect of 8 million 2013: 4.8 million potential ordinary shares, which relate to share option awards under the LTIP scheme, on the attributable loss for the year is anti-dilutive and thus these shares are not considered in determining basic EPS.
However the effect of these awards on underlying attributable earnings is dilutive and hence the potential ordinary shares are considered in determining underlying EPS below.
Loss for the year would be decreased if holders of the convertible bonds in Vedanta exercised their right to convert their bond holdings into Vedanta equity.
The impact on loss for the year of this conversion would be the reduction in interest payable on the convertible bond.
The adjustment in respect of convertible bonds has an anti-dilutive impact on earnings and is thus not considered in determining diluted EPS.
Earnings per share based on underlying profit for the year non-GAAP The Groups underlying profit is the profit for the year after adding back special items, other losses gains Note 8 and their resultant tax and non-controlling interest effects.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2014 2013 Loss profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 196.0 162.0 Special items 5 138.0 41.9 Other losses gains 364.0 285.2 Tax and non-controlling interest effect of special items and other losses gains 212.6 121.2 Underlying attributable profit for the year 93.4 367.9 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 149 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued Basic earnings per share on underlying profit for the year non-GAAP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2014 2013 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 93.4 367.9 Weighted average number of shares of the Company in issue million 273.5 272.9 Earnings per share on Underlying Profit for the year US cents per share 34.2 134.8 Diluted earnings per share on Underlying Profit for the year non-GAAP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million except as stated 2014 2013 Underlying profit for the year US$ million 93.4 367.9 Adjusted weighted average number of shares of the Company million 281.5 277.7 Diluted earnings per share on Underlying Profit for the year US cents per share 33.2 132.5 14.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201213: 37 US cents per share 201112: 35 US cents per share 101.8 96.0 Interim dividend paid during the year: 22 US cents per share 201213: 21 US cents per share 60.7 57.5 162.5 153.5 Proposed for approval at AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 201314: 39 US cents per share 201213: 37 US cents per share 107.5 101.8 15.
Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Cost gross carrying amount 16.6 21.3 Accumulated impairment losses 4.7 Net carrying amount at 31 March 16.6 16.6 Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following Cash Generating Units CGUs.
The allocation of goodwill to CGUs is as follows: US$12.2 million Copper India.
US$4.4 million Iron ore business.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The Company has undertaken an impairment review of goodwill of US$16.6 million as at 31 March 2014.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the relevant cash generating unit is considered to be insignificant in comparison with the total carrying value of the cash generating unit.
The carrying amount of goodwill was evaluated using the discounted future cash flows of the entities to which the goodwill pertains and comparing this to the total carrying value of the relevant cash generating units.
It was determined that the carrying amount of goodwill is not impaired.
150 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 16.
Intangible assets Intangible assets include port concession rights to operate a general cargo berth for handling coal at the outer harbour of the Visakhapatnam port on the east coast of India, rights to use treated water from sewage treatment plant at Zinc India operations and software licences.
Port concession US$ million rights Others Total Cost As at 1 April 2013 Addition 1.1 8.3 9.4 Transfer from tangible assets 98.1 8.0 106.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.7 1.5 0.8 As at 31 March 2014 99.9 14.8 114.7 Accumulated amortisations As at 1 April 2013 Charge for the year 3.5 3.0 6.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2014 3.5 2.6 6.1 Net book value As at 1 April 2013 As at 31 March 2014 96.4 12.2 108.6 Vizag General Cargo Berth Private Limited VGCB, a special purpose vehicle, was incorporated for the coal berth mechanisation and upgrades at Visakhapatnam port.
VGCB is owned by Sesa Sterlite and Leighton Welspun Contractors Private Limited in the ratio of 74 : 26.
The project is to be carried out on a design, build, finance, operate, transfer basis and the concession agreement between Visakhapatnam Port and VGCB was signed in June 2010.
In October 2010, VGCB was awarded with the concession after fulfilling conditions stipulated as a precedent to the concession agreement.
Visakhapatnam Port has provided, in lieu of a licence fee, an exclusive licence to VGCB for designing, engineering, financing, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and replacing the project project facilities and services.
The concession period is 30 years from the date of the award of the concession.
The capacity of an upgraded berth would be 10.18mmtpa and that the Visakhapatnam Port would be entitled to receive a 38.10% share of the gross revenue as royalty.
VGCB is entitled to recover a tariff from the user s of the project facilities and services as per its tariff notification.
The tariff rates are linked to the Wholesale Price Index WPI and would accordingly be adjusted as specified in the concession agreement every year.
The ownership of all infrastructure assets, buildings, structures, berths, wharfs, equipment and other immovable and movable assets, constructed, installed, located, created or provided by VGCB at the project site and or in the ports assets pursuant, to a concession agreement, would be with VGCB until expiry of this concession agreement.
The cost of any repair, replacement or restoration of the project facilities and services shall be borne by VGCB during the concession period.
VGCB has to transfer all its rights, titles and interest in the project facilities and services free of cost to Visakhapatnam Port at the end of the concession period Revenue from construction contract of service concession arrangements on exchanging construction services for the port concession rights, recognised in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended 31 March 2014, is US$1.1 million 2013: US$65.3 million.
The intangible asset of right to use the sewage treatment plant is amortised over 25 years.
Software licences are amortised over a period of three years.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 151 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Other tangible fixed assets include office equipment and fixtures, and light vehicles.
At 31 March 2014, land with a carrying value of US$122.8 million 31 March 2013: US$102.3 million was not depreciated.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, interest and foreign exchange losses capitalised was US$156.4 million 31 March 2013: US$314.6 million.
2 Certain property, plant and equipment are pledged as collateral against borrowings, the details related to which have been described in Note 24 on Borrowings.
152 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 18.
Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are required to be classified and accounted for as either available-for-sale or fair value through profit or loss.
The Group only has financial asset investments classified as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 At 1 April 20.6 209.6 Disposal 16.4 171.9 Movements in fair value 14.1 Exchange difference 2.5 3.0 At 31 March 1.7 20.6 Analysis of financial asset investments Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Quoted 1.7 2.4 Unquoted 18.2 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Current 18.2 Non-current 1.7 2.4 Quoted investments represent investments in equity securities that present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend income and gains in value.
These securities are held at fair value based on market prices.
In April 2013, the Group disposed its investment in Andhra Pradesh Gas Power Corporation Limited APGPCL for a consideration of US$18.1 million.
Other non-current assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Deposits, advances and other receivables due after one year 132.1 113.4 132.1 113.4 20.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Raw materials and consumables 952.9 1,288.4 Work-in-progress 557.7 459.6 Finished goods 231.9 217.6 1,742.5 1,965.6 Inventories with a carrying amount of US$879.5 million 2013: US$1,119.4 million have been pledged as security against certain bank borrowings of the Group.
There were no material inventory write-offs during the period.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 153 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Trade receivables 706.0 781.3 Amounts due from related parties Note 38 8.5 14.0 Prepayments 61.2 79.0 Deposits with governments 169.9 60.0 Other receivables 794.3 771.7 1,739.9 1,706.0 The credit period given to customers ranges from zero to 90 days.
Other receivables primarily include excise balances, customs balances, advances to suppliers, claims receivables and other receivables.
Liquid investments As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Bank deposits 2,655.3 2,980.9 Other investments 5,913.2 2,800.6 8,568.5 5,781.5 Bank deposits are made for periods of between three months and one year depending on the cash requirements of the companies within the Group and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
Other investments include mutual fund investments which are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reported through the income statement.
Liquid investments do not qualify for recognition as cash and cash equivalents due to their maturity period and risk of change in value of the investments.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Cash at bank and in hand 202.8 199.6 1 Short-term deposits 166.6 2,000.6 369.4 2,200.2 1 Includes US$88.8 million 2013: US$87.2 million of cash held in short-term deposit accounts that is restricted in use as it relates to unclaimed dividends, closure costs and future redundancy payments.
Short-term deposits are made for periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Borrowings As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Bank loans 10,916.2 11,192.0 Bonds 4,017.9 2,881.0 Other loans 15.6 85.3 Total 14,949.7 14,158.3 Borrowings are repayable as: Within one year shown as current liabilities 2,437.0 3,705.7 More than one year 12,512.7 10,452.6 Total 14,949.7 14,158.3 154 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 24.
Borrowings continued At 31 March 2014, the Group had available US$2,370.6 million 2013: US$3,353.0 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The Group facilities are subject to certain financial and non-financial covenants.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group has complied with all the covenants attached to the borrowing facilities, except for certain facilities at BALCO and KCM, for these non-compliance the waiver letters have been received from the lender.
The primary covenants which must be complied with include fixed charge cover ratio, net borrowing to EBITDA ratio, total net assets to borrowings ratio and net interest expense to EBITDA ratio.
The principal loans held by Group companies at 31 March 2014 were as follows: BALCO Non-convertible debentures NCDs BALCO issued NCDs of US$83.2 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 12.25% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge on the fixed assets of BALCO including land and buildings.
The first instalment of NCD due for repayment was paid in November 2013.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$55.5 million repayable in equal annual instalments in November 2014 and November 2015.
During the year BALCO also issued NCDs of US$83.2 million to the Kotak Mahindra Bank, Axis Bank Limited and Wipro Limited at an interest rate of 8.58% per annum Series I and 8.60% per annum Series II.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge on the fixed assets of BALCO.
The debentures are repayable in two equal instalments on November 2015 and May 2016.
Project buyers credit As at 31 March 2014, BALCO has extended credit terms relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment of US$114.5 million 2013: US$215.2 million at an average interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 174 basis points.
Project buyers credits have an average maturity of September 2014.
External commercial borrowings BALCO has obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from the State Bank of India, London of US$200 million at an interest rate of six months US$LIBOR plus 260 basis points secured by first pari passu charges on all the fixed assets excluding land of BALCO projects both present and future along with secured lenders.
The above loan is repayable in three equal annual instalments starting August 2016.
BALCO has also obtained an External Commercial Borrowing loan from the DBS Bank Singapore of US$24.8 million at an interest rate of six months US$LIBOR plus 345 basis points secured by first pari passu charges on all movable fixed assets including plant and machinery related 1,200MW power project and 3.25 LTPA Smelter projects both present and future along with secured lenders.
First instalment due for repayment of US$8.3 million was paid in November 2013.
The balance of two equal instalments are due for repayment in November 2014 and November 2015.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$16.5 million.
Commercial paper During the year, BALCO has issued commercial paper to various asset management companies for the funding of project loan repayment and other payable.
As at 31 March 2014, BALCO had an outstanding balance of US$186.4 million 2013: US$126.9 million bearing a coupon rate of 10.08% per annum.
Sesa Sterlite Limited Term loan Jharsuguda Aluminium has obtained a US$1,599.6 million loan from the State Bank of India SBI at a floating interest rate of SBI bank base rate plus 175 basis points, secured by a first priority charge by way of a pledge of all present and future unencumbered and encumbered movable fixed assets for the project, a first charge by way of mortgage on all present and future immovable fixed assets for the project and second charge on the current assets of Aluminium division for the project.
During the current year, the amount drawn under this facility was US$233.0 million and US$788.7 million had been repaid as per the terms of the facility.
During the year, Jharsuguda Aluminium had also obtained a US$299.5 million loan from the Axis Bank at an interest rate of 10.50% per annum, secured by a first charge by way of a mortgage pledge of movable immovable all present and future fixed assets of Aluminium division for the project.
The same is repayable from a period of February 2017 to February 2019.
During the year, Jharsuguda 2,400MW power plant obtained a US$165.6 million loan from the Axis Bank at an interest rate of 10.50% per annum.
The loan is secured by way of a mortgage and charge on all the immovable properties, both present and future, of Jharsuguda 2,400MW power plant except for IPP Agricultural Land and a second charge by way of a pledge on all the movable fixed assets of the Power division.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$165.6 million.
The same is repayable in September 2014.
During the year, Jharsuguda 2,400MW power plant has obtained a US$66.4 million loan from the Canara Bank at an interest rate of 11.20% per annum.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$66.4 million.
The loan is repayable in 16 quarterly instalments from the end of the quarter starting after the moratorium period.
Short-term loans Iron Ore Sesa obtained a short-term borrowing facility in foreign currency in the form of pre shipment export packing credit from various banks at an average rate of US$LIBOR plus 110 basis points.
These loans were obtained to meet the working capital requirements of Iron Ore Sesa.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$48.5 million 2013: US$167.6 million.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 155 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued NCDs Jharsuguda Aluminium has issued NCDs of US$66.6 million to the Life Insurance Corporation of India at a rate of 11.5% per annum.
The debentures are secured and have the first pari passu charge over the identified assets including land and building of the issuer to the extent of 1.33 times the issued amount.
Debentures are repayable in three equal annual instalments starting October 2013.
First instalment due for repayment of US$22.2 million was paid in October 2013.
The balance of two instalments are due for repayment in October 2014 and October 2015.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$44.4 million.
Sesa Sterlite Limited erstwhile Sterlite Industries India Limited Copper had issued NCDs in three trenches for US$83.2 million, US$199.7 million and US$416.0 million with an interest rate of 9.24%, 9.17% and 9.10% per annum respectively.
Out of the total NCDs US$199.7 million are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Sesa Sterlite Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of a pledge on the movable fixed assets of Aluminium division with a security cover of 1.25 times the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of NCDs.
The balance NCDs of US$499 million are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Sesa Sterlite Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of a pledge on the movable fixed assets of Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant with a security cover of 1.25 times the face value of outstanding NCDs at all time during the tenure of NCDs.
Of the total outstanding NCDs, US$83.2 million is repayable in December 2022, US$416.0 million in April 2023 and US$199.7 million in July 2023.
The NCDs have put and call options respectively at the end of five years from the respective date of allotment.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$698.8 million.
Sesa Sterlite Limited erstwhile Sterlite Industries India Limited had also issued NCDs in three tranches for US$83.2 per tranche with an interest rate of 9.24%, 9.40% and 9.40% per annum respectively.
The NCDs are secured by way of a mortgage on the immovable property of Sesa Sterlite Limited situated at Sanaswadi in the state of Maharashtra and also by way of a pledge on the movable fixed assets of Jharsugudas 2,400MW power plant with a security cover of 1.25 times the face value of outstanding NCDs at all times during the tenure of NCDs.
Of the total outstanding NCDs, US$83.2 million is repayable in October 2022, US$83.2 million in November 2022 and US$83.2 million in December 2022.
The NCDs have put and call options respectively at the end of five years from the respective date of allotment of the NCDs.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$249.6 million.
External commercial borrowing Jharsuguda Aluminium has obtained an External Commercial Borrowing from the ICICI Bank, Singapore of US$100.0 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 240 basis points secured by negative lien undertaking on the assets of the Jharsuguda Aluminium division, both present and future, excluding assets already charged in favour of ICICI bank and other lenders.
The repayment period is from February 2012 to August 2014.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$25.0 million 2013: US$70.0 million Jharsuguda Aluminium has obtained and fully drawn down an External Commercial Borrowing loan from Axis Bank of US$500.0 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 400 basis points having a subservient charge on all present and future movable assets of Aluminium division.
The repayment is to be made in three equal instalments starting from April 2015.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$500 million 2013: US$500 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a part of the intercompany borrowing from Welter Trading Limited was refinanced through Axis Bank for US$44.5 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 360 basis points having a subservient charge on all present and future movable assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium.
The entire loan is repayable in July 2015.
As at 31 March 2014, the amount outstanding is US$44.5 million 2013: US$44.5 million.
Project buyers credit As at 31 March 2014, Jharsuguda Aluminium had extended credit terms relating to purchases of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$21.8 million 2013: US$156.3 million.
These loans bear average interest at LIBOR plus 200 basis points.
These are secured by all of the fixed assets of Jharsuguda Aluminium, immovable or movable, present and future, on a pari passu basis with other term lenders and with priority over other creditors.
Project buyers credit have an average maturity of August 2014.
Commercial papers During the year, Jharsugudas 2,400MW Power Plant has issued commercial paper to various asset management companies for funding project payable.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding balance was US$257.1 million 2013: US$9.0 million and the bearing coupon rate of 10.26%.
During the year Iron Ore Sesa has issued commercial papers for periods ranging up to one year at interest rates ranging between 9.70% to 10.15%.
The commercial paper is used to meet working capital requirements of the Iron Ore division and are repayable in the next financial year.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding balance is US$280.2 million 2013: US$432.5 million.
Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited TMHL Term loan In May 2013 the Group tied up a term loan facility of US$1,200 million borrowed by TMHL through a syndicate of banks with Standard Chartered Bank SCB as facility agent to partly refinance US$2,664 million drawn to meet the funding requirements for the acquisition of a 28.5% stake in Cairn India Limited in December 2011.
The facility bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and is due for repayment in four equal annual instalments starting June 2015.
The facility of US$2,664 million due for repayment is US$1,350.0 million in June 2013 and US$1,314.4 million in December 2014 was fully prepaid in June 2013.
156 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 24.
Borrowings continued Talwandi Sabo NCDs Talwandi Sabo has issued NCDs of US$250.0 million to the ICICI Bank at a rate of 9.8% per annum.
The debentures are secured by first pari passu charge on the assets of Talwandi Sabo both present and future, with an unconditional and irrevocable corporate guarantee by Sesa Sterlite Limited.
Debentures have a tenure of 13 years repayable in 12 equal instalments 10 years after allotment.
Debentures have a call option, five years after allotment and on non-exercise of the option: the interest rate will increase by 25 basis points.
Project buyers credit As at 31 March 2014, Talwandi Sabo has accessed buyers credit in respect of purchase of capital goods of US$481.0 million 2013: US$430.0 million at an average rate of six months US$LIBOR plus 184 basis points.
The average maturity of the project buyers credit is August 2014.
VGCB NCDs During the year, VGCB has issued NCDs of US$49.9 million to IDFC Limited at a rate of 9% per annum to refinance the existing term loan from Axis Bank.
The debentures are secured by 1.1 times the face value of outstanding debentures, by way of a charge on the fixed assets of VGCB at all times during the currency of the debentures.
Debentures have tenure of three years with put and call options at the end of second year.
KCM A term loan facility of US$700 million 2013: US$700 million has been obtained by KCM from Standard Bank.
The term loan facility is made up of two tranches: US$300 million Facility A and US$400 million Facility B drawn down on various dates with the last amount drawn in December 2012.
The loan is secured against the fixed assets of KCM.
Interest is payable quarterly at three months LIBOR plus 350 basis points for Facility A and three months US$LIBOR plus 250 basis points for Facility B.
Facility A is repayable in 11 quarterly instalments commencing from 31 March 2013 and Facility B is repayable in 12 quarterly instalments commencing from 31 December 2014.
The repayment terms are being negotiated and the documentation is under progress.
The principal outstanding under this loan as at 31 March 2014 is US$590.9 million 2013: US$672.7 million.
A general short-term banking facility incorporating multiple sub-facilities amounting to US$50 million 31 March 2013: US$50 million was provided by Stanbic Bank.
The facility was agreed upon on 1 June 2011.
Interest is payable monthly at three months US$LIBOR plus 350 basis points.
The facility is repayable strictly on demand.
The tenure for the facility is 12 months.
The amount drawn as on 31 March 2014 under this facility is US$49.9 million 2013: US$21.5 million.
A general short-term banking facility incorporating multiple sub-facilities amounting to US$85 million 2013: US$85 million was provided by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia.
The facility was agreed upon on 26 May 2011.
The facilities are repayable strictly on demand.
The amount drawn as at 31 March 2014 under this facility is US$49.6 million 2013: US$49.6 million and an Employee Liability Bond amounting to US$35 million 2013: US$35 million.
Vedanta Resources plc Long-term bonds In July 2008, the Company issued US$500 million, 8.75% bonds due January 2014, and US$750 million, 9.50% bonds due July 2018.
US$500 million bonds due in January 2014 were duly paid.
In July 2011, Vedanta issued US$750 million, 6.75% bonds due June 2016, and US$900 million, 8.25% bonds due June 2021.
In June 2013, the Company issued US$1,200 million, 6% bonds due January 2014 and US$500 million, 7.125% bonds due in May 2023.
All the above bonds are issued in the United States of America USA pursuant to Rule 144A of the US Securities Act of 1933 Securities Act and outside of the USA in compliance with Regulations pursuant to the Securities Act.
The bonds are unsecured and are currently rated BB by Standard & Poors, Ba3 by Moodys and BB by Fitch Ratings Limited.
Term loan In December 2010, the Company obtained a loan from the ICICI Bank for US$180.0 million repayable US$90.0 million in December 2014 and the balance of US$90.0 million in December 2015 and bears an interest rate of three months GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
In January 2011, the Company obtained a loan from the ICICI Bank for US$150.0 million repayable US$75.0 million in January 2016 and the balance of US$75 million in January 2017 and bears interest rate of three months US$LIBOR plus 389 basis points.
In July 2011, the Company obtained a loan from the ICICI Bank for US$500.0 million repayable US$250.0 million in January 2018 and the balance of US$250.0 million in July 2018 and bears an interest rate of three months US$LIBOR plus 390 basis points.
In March 2012, the Company obtained a loan of US$300.0 million with the Standard Chartered Bank.
The loan bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 415 basis points and is due for repayment in June 2015.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 157 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued In December 2012, the Company obtained a syndicated loan with the State Bank of India as an agent for US$595.0 million repayable in four equal instalments in February 2017, August 2017, July 2018 and January 2019.
The loan bears an interest rate of three months US$LIBOR plus 440 basis points.
In March 2013, the Company entered into a three year facility agreement with the Deutsche Bank as an agent for an amount of US$185.0 million.
The loan bears an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 315 basis points.
In March 2013, the Company entered into two facility agreements with the ICICI bank for amounts of US$170.0 million and US$180.0 million.
The loans bear interest rates of US$LIBOR plus 430 basis points and US$LIBOR plus 427 basis points respectively.
The US$170.0 million facility is repayable in three annual instalments beginning April 2018 the first instalment being 20% and the balance of two instalments being 40% each.
The US$180.0 million facility is repayable in three equal annual instalments beginning February 2017.
In April 2013, the Company entered into a US$150 million facility with the Bank of America Merrill Lynch out of which US$75 million was drawn and repaid in full during the year.
An interest of US$LIBOR plus 315 basis points was payable on the loan.
In April 2013, the Company entered into a Standby Letter of Credit agreement arranged by the Axis Bank for an amount of US$150 million at a LC commission of 1% per annum payable quarterly.
The facility is funded by the Bank of India to the extent of US$148.5 million and bears an interest rate at three months US$LIBOR plus 290 basis points.
The facility is repayable is two equal annual instalments starting in April 2017.
In October 2013, the Company entered into a syndicated facility agreement with the Standard Chartered Bank as facility agent for borrowing up to US$500 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points repayable to the extent of 50% in October 2017 and balance in January 2018.
In November 2013, the Company entered into a two-year Revolving Credit Facility arranged by The Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered Bank for borrowing up to US$100 million at an interest rate US$LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
As at 31 March 2014, US$81 million has been drawn against this facility.
In December 2013, the Company entered into a facility agreement with the Bank of India for borrowing up to US$100 million at an interest rate of US$LIBOR plus 357 basis points repayable to the extent of 50% in October 2017 and balance in January 2018.
Non-equity non-controlling interests As at 31 March 2014, non-equity non-controlling interests remain of US$11.9 million, being deferred shares in KCM held by ZCCM.
The deferred shares have no voting rights or rights to KCMs dividends, but are entitled on a winding-up to a return of up to US$0.99 per share once all of KCMs ordinary shares have received a distribution equal to their par value and any share premium created on their issue and which remains distributable to them.
The deferred shares are held at historic cost, being the fair value attributed to them at the time of initial acquisition of KCM in the year ended 31March 2005.
They are classified as non-current liabilities as they are repayable only on the winding up of KCM, for an amount different than the pro rata share of net assets upon liquidation.
The shares have been valued at US$0.99 per share, which is the maximum amount payable to the deferred shareholders.
These deferred shares have not been discounted as the effect would not be material.
2 Debt related derivatives exclude derivative financial assets and liabilities relating to commodity contracts and forward foreign currency contracts.
3 Other non-cash changes comprises of exchanges losses and gains on borrowings and capital creditors, MTM of embedded derivatives, interest accretion on convertible bonds and amortisation of borrowing costs for which there is no cash movement.
It also includes US$344.4 million 2013: US$158.7 million of fair value movement in investments.
158 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 26.
Trade and other payables a Current trade payables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Trade payables 2,170.2 2,424.5 Bills of exchange payable 1,509.5 1,428.0 Accruals and deferred income 362.4 349.7 Other trade payables 647.9 361.5 4,690.0 4,563.7 Non-interest bearing trade payables are normally settled on 60 to 90-day terms.
Interest bearing trade payables amount to US$1,615.2 million 2013: US$1,813.9 million.
Bills of exchange are interest-bearing and are normally payable within 180 days.
Bills of exchange payable comprise of credit availed from financial institutions for direct payment to suppliers for raw materials purchased.
The fair values of the trade and other payables are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
b Non-current trade payables As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Other trade payables 203.3 232.2 203.3 232.2 Other trade payables primarily comprise amounts withheld as retentions, payable to suppliers of capital projects after a satisfactory completion of contractual commissioning period, which are payable after the completion of commissioning.
The fair value of the non-current trade payables are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
Convertible bonds Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 A. VRJL 1,177.1 1,056.0 B. VRJL II 65.7 753.6 C. FCCB Sesa Sterlite 678.7 624.9 1,921.5 2,434.5 A. Vedanta Resource Jersey Limited VRJL issued 5.5% US$1,250 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 13 July 2009.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 24 August 2009 to 6 July 2016.
Conversion option exercised before 15 August 2012 were convertible at US$36.48 per share.
Conversion options exercised on or after 15 August 2012 were convertible at US$35.58 per share.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 28 July 2012 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 13 July 2014.
During the year the Company received notice from bondholders amounting to US$1.7 million to exercise the option to convert the bonds into equity shares of Vedanta Resources plc in accordance with the provisions of the Offer circular dated 9 July 2009.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 US$1.7 million of bonds were converted into 48,850 equity shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The net proceeds of the convertible issue have been split between the liability element and equity component, representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company, as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Opening liability 1,056.0 1,009.7 Effective interest cost 191.0 115.2 Conversion of Convertible bonds 1.2 Coupon interest paid accrued 68.7 68.9 Closing liability 1,177.1 1,056.0 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 159 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
Convertible bonds continued The US$1,250 million convertible bond has a put option exercised by bond holders in July 2014.
Management has assessed the possibility of bondholders exercising the put option as likely and accordingly the bond is now being amortised to July 2014 resulting in an additional US$70 million interest expense being recognised in respect of accumulated amortisation in the current year.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 17.3% March 2013: 11.2%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2014 is US$1,241.7 million 31 March 2013: US$1,194.1 million.
B. Vedanta Resource Jersey II Limited VRJL II issued 4.0% US$883 million guaranteed convertible bonds on 30 March 2010.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable preference shares to be issued by VRJL-II, which will then be automatically exchanged for ordinary shares of Vedanta Resources plc.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time from 10 May 2010 to 23 March 2017.
Conversion option exercised before 15 August 2012, were convertible at US$51.9251 per share.
Conversion Options exercised on or after 15August 2012, are convertible at US$50.6460, as per the terms of offering circular.
If the notes have not been converted, they will be redeemed at the option of the Company at any time on or after 14 April 2013 subject to certain conditions, or be redeemed at the option of the bondholders on or after 29 April 2013 to 30 March 2015.
On 15 March 2013, 91.6% of bondholders exercised the put option to redeem the bonds on 29 April 2013, resulting in a repayment of US$809.8million on that date.
Consequently an additional charge of US$39.1 million has been recognised as part of finance cost in the previousyear to reflect the revised amortised value of the bond liability.
At the inception, the net proceeds of the convertible issue was split between the liability element and a derivative component, representing thefair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Company.
The latter was not recorded within equity due to theexistence of partial cash settlement terms within the bond which prevent the adoption of compound financial instrument accounting.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Opening liability 753.6 681.6 Effective interest cost 11.9 107.3 Repayment of bond 694.3 Coupon interest paid accrued 5.5 35.3 Closing liability 65.7 753.6 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 15% 2013: 15%.
The fair value of the convertible bond as at 31 March 2014 was US$72.5 million 31 March 2013: US$880.2 million.
C. Sesa Sterlite Limited issued 4% US$500 million convertible senior notes denominated in US dollars on 29 October 2009 which are due on 30October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into American Depository Share ADS to be issued by Sesa Sterlite Limited.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time before 29 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 42.8688 for every US$1,000 of principal which is equal to a conversion price of US$23.33 per ADS.
Pursuant to the effectiveness of Group simplification scheme in August 2014 Note 44 conversion rate has changed to 25.7213 ADS every US$1,000 principal amount of notes which is equal to a conversion price of approximately US$38.88 per ADS.
Sesa Sterlite has the option subject to the terms of the bond to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 4 November 2012.
Sesa Sterlite Limited had also issued 5% US$500 million convertible bonds denominated in US dollars on 30 October 2009 and due 31October 2014.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of Sesa Sterlite Limited.
The bondholders have the option to convert at any time after 10 December 2009 and before 24 October 2014 at a conversion ratio of 13837.6384 for every US$100,000 principal.
Sesa Sterlite hasthe option subject to certain conditions to redeem the convertible bond at any time after 30 October 2012.
As at 31 March 2014, theoutstanding closing balance is US$216.8 million 2013: US$216.8 million.
As the functional currency of Sesa Sterlite Limited is INR, the conversion of the convertible bonds which are denominated in US dollars would not result in the settlement and exchange of a fixed amount of cash in INR terms, for a fixed number of its shares respectively.
Accordingly, the convertible bond must be separated into two component elements: a derivative component consisting of the conversion option carried at fair value and a liability component consisting of the debt element of the bonds.
Further details of the accounting for such instruments are provided in the Group accounting policies Note 2a.
160 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 27.
Convertible bonds continued The following table shows the movements in the Sesa Sterlite Limited bonds during the year on an aggregated basis: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Opening liability 624.9 599.0 Effective interest cost 92.9 85.0 Coupon interest paid 34.4 34.4 Decrease in fair value of derivative component 4.7 24.7 Closing liability including derivative component of US$nil, March 2013: US$4.7 million 678.7 624.9 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 12.7% March 2013: 12.7% for 4% US$500 million convertible notes and 19.4% March 2013: 19.4% for 5% US$500 million convertible notes.
The fair value of the convertible bonds as at 31 March 2014 was US$721.3 million 31 March 2013: US$708.8 million.
Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 1 US$ million 2014 2013 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 8,568.5 5,781.5 Financial instruments derivatives 70.2 31.1 Cash and cash equivalents 369.4 2,200.2 Loan and receivables Trade and other receivables 1,278.1 1,706.0 Other non-current assets 132.1 113.4 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 1.7 2.4 Financial asset investments held at cost 18.2 Total 10,420.0 9,852.8 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 72.5 Designated into fair value hedge 146.1 2 Borrowings 4.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 4,772.6 4,795.9 3 Borrowings 16,871.2 16,588.1 Total 21,789.9 21,461.2 1 Non-financial assets and liabilities have been excluded from the above disclosure from 201314.
2 Includes embedded derivative liability portion of convertible bonds US$nil million 2013: US$4.7 million.
3 Includes amortised cost liability portion of convertible bonds US$1,921.5 million 2013: US$2,429.8 million.
IFRS 7 requires additional information regarding the methodologies employed to measure the fair value of financial instruments which are recognised or disclosed in the accounts.
These methodologies are categorised per the standard as: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 161 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial instruments continued Adoption of IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement, has resulted in some minor changes to the method of valuation of financial derivatives instruments during the period.
The credit risk arising from the non-performance by counterparties i. e. credit value adjustment CVA and debit value adjustment DVA of their contractual financial obligations have been adjusted in fair value of financial derivatives The net impact of CVA DVA adjustment has resulted in a gain of US$1.4 million during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Changes in the fair value of the financial derivative instruments attributable to the change in the credit risk, resulted in a decrease in the fair value of such instruments US$1.7 million during the year ended 31 March 2014.
The below table summarises the categories of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: As at 31 March 2014 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 8,568.5 Financial instruments derivatives 70.2 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 1.7 Total 8,570.2 70.2 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 146.1 Total 146.1 As at 31 March 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Financial assets At fair value through profit or loss Held for trading 5,781.5 Financial instruments derivatives 31.1 Available-for-sale investments Financial asset investments held at fair value 2.4 Total 5,783.9 31.1 Financial liabilities At fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments derivatives 72.5 Designated into fair value hedge Borrowings 4.7 Total 77.2 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
No financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value were Level 3 fair value measurements.
The fair value of borrowings is US$16,973.8 million 2013: US$16,420.2 million.
For all other financial instruments, the carrying amount is either the fair value, or approximates the fair value.
The fair value of financial asset investments represents the market value of the quoted investments and other traded instruments.
For other financials assets the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of financial liabilities is the market value of the traded instruments, where applicable.
Otherwise fair value is calculated using a discounted cash flow model with market assumptions, unless the carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
The fair value of the embedded derivative liability of convertible bond has been calculated using the Black-Scholes model with market assumptions.
Derivative instruments and risk management The Groups businesses are subject to several risks and uncertainties including financial risks.
The Groups documented risk management policies act as an effective tool in mitigating the various financial risks to which the businesses are exposed to in the course of their daily operations.
The risk management policies cover areas such as liquidity risk, commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and capital management the latter covered in Note 33.
162 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 28.
Financial instruments continued Risks are identified through a formal risk management programme with active involvement of senior management personnel and business managers at both the corporate and individual subsidiary level.
Each operating subsidiary in the Group has in place risk management processes which are in line with the Groups policy.
Each significant risk has a designated owner within the Group at an appropriate senior level.
The potential financial impact of the risk and its likelihood of a negative outcome are regularly updated.
The risk management process is coordinated by the Management Assurance function and is regularly reviewed by the Groups Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is aided by the GRMC, which meets every quarter to review risks as well as the progress against the planned actions.
Key business decisions are discussed at the monthly meetings of the Executive Committee.
The overall internal control environment and risk management programme including financial risk management is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Treasury management Treasury management focuses on capital protection, liquidity maintenance and yield maximisation.
The treasury policies are approved by the Board and adherence to these policies is strictly monitored at the Executive Committee meetings.
Day-to-day treasury operations of the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective finance teams within the framework of the overall Group treasury policies.
Long-term fund raising including strategic treasury initiatives are handled by a central team while short-term funding for routine working capital requirements is delegated to subsidiary companies.
A monthly reporting system exists to inform senior management of investments, debt, currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives.
The Group has a strong system of internal control which enables effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are supplemented by regular internal audits.
The investment portfolio at our Indian entities is independently reviewed by CRISIL Limited and our portfolio has been rated as Very Good.
The Group uses derivative instruments as part of its management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Group does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The Group does not enter into complex derivative transactions to manage the treasury and commodity risks.
Both treasury and commodities derivative transactions are normally in the form of forward contracts and interest rate and currency swaps and these are subject to the Group guidelines and policies.
Interest rate swaps are taken to achieve a balance between fixed and floating rates as described below under Interest risk and currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to non-US dollar currencies to US dollar currencies.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to the movement of base metal commodity prices on the London Metal Exchange.
Any decline in the prices of the base metals that the Group produces and sells will have an immediate and direct impact on the profitability of the businesses.
As a general policy, the Group aims to sell the products at prevailing market prices.
As much as possible, the Group tries to mitigate price risk through favourable contractual terms.
The Group undertakes hedging activity in commodities to a limited degree.
Hedging is used primarily as a risk management tool and, in some cases, to secure future cash flows in cases of high volatility by entering in to forward contracts or similar instruments.
The hedging activities are subject to strict limits set out by the Board and to a strictly defined internal control and monitoring mechanism.
Decisions relating to hedging of commodities are taken at the Executive Committee level and with clearly laid down guidelines for their implementation by the subsidiaries.
Whilst the Group aims to achieve average LME prices for a month or a year, average realised prices may not necessarily reflect the LME price movements because of a variety of reasons such as uneven sales during the year and timing of shipments.
The Group is also exposed to the movement of international crude oil price and the discount in the price of Rajasthan crude oil to Brent price.
Copper The Groups custom smelting copper operations at Tuticorin is benefited by a natural hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch in quotational periods between the purchase of concentrate and the sale of finished copper.
The Groups policy on custom smelting is to generate margins from TC RCs, improving operational efficiencies, minimising conversion cost, generating a premium over LME on sale of finished copper, sale of by-products and from achieving import parity on domestic sales.
Hence, mismatches in quotational periods are managed to ensure that the gains or losses are minimised.
The Group hedges this variability of LME prices through forward contracts and tries to make the LME price a pass-through cost between purchases of copper concentrate and sales of finished products, both of which are linked to the LME price.
The Group also benefits from the difference between the amounts paid for quantities of copper content received and recovered in the manufacturing process, also known as free copper.
The Group hedges on a selective basis the free copper by entering into future contracts.
The Groups Australian mines in Tasmania supply approximately 7% to 8% of the requirement of the custom copper smelter at Tuticorin on an arms length basis.
Hence, TC RCs are a major source of income for the Indian copper smelting operations.
Fluctuations in TC RCs are influenced by factors including demand and supply conditions prevailing in the market for mine output.
The Groups copper business has a strategy of securing a majority of its concentrate feed requirement under long-term contracts with mines.
KCM is largely an integrated copper producer and whenever hedging is done it is with an intention to protect the Group from price fluctuations in copper.
KCM also does hedging for its custom smelting operations, where back to back hedging is used to mitigate pricing risks.
For the mining assets in Australia and Zambia, part of the production may be hedged to secure cash flows on a selective basis.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 163 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial instruments continued Aluminium The requirement of the primary raw material, alumina, is partly met from own sources and the rest is purchased primarily on negotiated price terms.
Sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
At present the Group on selective basis hedges the aluminium content in outsourced alumina to protect its margins.
The Group also enters into hedging arrangements for its aluminium sales to realise month of sale LME prices.
Zinc and lead The sales prices are linked to the LME prices.
The Group has some long-term volume contracts with some customers where the prices are linked to prevailing LME prices at the time of shipment.
The Group hedges custom production of Indian operations through forward contracts or other instruments.
Iron ore The Group sells some portion of its iron ore production on quarterly price contracts and the balance on the basis of prevailing market prices.
Provisionally priced financial instruments On 31 March 2014, the value of net financial liabilities linked to commodities excluding derivatives accounted for on provisional prices was a liability of US$454.1 million 2013: liability of US$702.4 million.
These instruments are subject to price movements at the time of final settlement and the final price of these instruments will be determined in the financial year beginning 1 April 2014.
Set out below is the impact of 10% increase in LME prices on profit for the year and total equity as a result of changes in value of the Groups commodity financial instruments as at 31 March 2014: Effect on Effect on total equity profit of a of a 10% Closing LME 10% increase increase in as at in the LME the LME 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2014 2014 US$ million except as stated US$ US$ million US$ million Commodity price sensitivity Copper 6,636 5.3 5.3 Zinc 1,981 1.2 1.2 Lead 2,041 0.5 0.5 Effect on Effect on total profit of a equity of a Closing LME 10% increase 10% increase as at in the LME in the LME 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2013 2013 US$ million except as stated US$ US$ million US$ million Commodity price sensitivity Copper 7,583 5.5 5.5 Zinc 1,871 11.3 11.3 Lead 2,094 The above sensitivities are based on volumes, costs, exchange rates and other variables and provide the estimated impact of a change in LME prices on profit and equity assuming that all other variables remain constant.
Further, the impact of a 10% increase in closing copper LME for provisionally priced copper concentrate purchased at Sterlite Coppers custom smelting operations is US$54.2 million 2013: US$65.1 million, which is a pass through in nature and as such will not have any impact on the profitability.
Financial risk and sensitivities The Groups Board approved financial risk policies comprise liquidity, currency, interest rate and counterparty risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative treasury activity but seeks to manage risk and optimise interest and commodity pricing through proven financial instruments.
a Liquidity The Group requires funds both for short-term operational needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
The Group generates sufficient cash flows from the current operations which together with the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset investments provide liquidity both in the short-term as well as in the long-term.
Anticipated future cash flows, together with undrawn committed facilities of US$1,526.2 million, and cash and liquid investments of US$8,937.9 million as at 31 March 2014, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of the Group in the near future.
164 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 28.
Financial instruments continued The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys & Fitch Ratings are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively 2013: BB, Ba1 and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms.
The Group generally maintains a healthy net gearing ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises see Note 33 for further details.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date is given in the table below.
The figures reflect the contractual undiscounted cash obligation of the Group: At 31 March 2014 US$ million 1 Payment due by period 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables 4,644.9 163.1 4,808.0 Bank and other borrowings 3,521.0 2,292.6 10,113.1 2,972.5 18,899.2 Convertible bonds 2,060.3 2,060.3 Derivative liabilities 118.7 27.3 146.1 Total 10,344.9 2,455.7 10,140.5 2,972.5 25,913.6 1 Including interest payable.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$19,241.8 million of which US$2,370.6 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 6,640.7 4,358.5 2,282.2 12 years 1,487.7 1,487.7 25 years and above 11,113.4 11,025.0 88.4 Total 19,241.8 16,871.2 2,370.6 At 31 March 2013, the Group had access to funding facilities of US$19,945.7 million of which US$3,353.0 million was not yet drawn, as set out below.
US$ million Funding facilities Total facility Drawn Undrawn Less than 1 year 7,489.8 4,400.0 3,089.8 12 years 3,737.2 3,737.2 25 years and above 8,718.7 8,455.5 263.2 Total 19,945.7 16,592.7 3,353.0 b Foreign currency The Groups presentation currency is the US dollar.
The majority of the assets are located in India and the Indian rupee is the functional currency for the Indian operating subsidiaries.
Exposures on foreign currency loans are managed through the Group-wide hedging policy, which is reviewed periodically to ensure that the risk from fluctuating currency exchange rates is appropriately managed.
Natural hedges available in the business are identified at each entity level and hedges are placed only for the net exposure.
Short-term net exposures are hedged progressively based on their maturity.
Longer exposures beyond one year are normally unhedged.
However all new long-term borrowing exposures are being hedged.
Vedanta has hedged some of its non-US dollar borrowings into US dollar borrowings by entering into cross-currency swaps.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 165 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial instruments continued The carrying amount of the Groups financial assets and liabilities in different currencies are as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Financial Financial Financial Financial US$ million assets liabilities assets liabilities US$ 2,517.9 15,716.0 2,009.8 14,971.3 INR 7,697.2 5,597.3 7,670.4 5,917.5 Kwacha 128.1 390.9 JPY 0.2 0.2 12.2 AUD 5.3 13.2 7.1 21.6 CAD 0.1 0.2 EURO 105.6 56.4 103.4 86.6 ZAR 28.7 26.5 41.5 23.3 NAD 30.5 6.1 19.3 22.0 Others 34.7 246.1 0.7 15.8 Total 10,419.9 21,789.9 9,852.8 21,461.2 The Groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a Group company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of that entity with US dollar being the major foreign currency exposure of the Groups main operating subsidiaries.
Set out below is the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the Groups foreign currency financial instruments: 31 March 2014 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar of US dollar exchange on net on total US$ million rate earning equity INR 60.0998 406.5 367.0 Australian dollar 1.0787 0.2 0.2 Euro 0.7278 8.3 19.6 Kwacha 6.2514 11.6 11.6 31 March 2013 Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening Closing of US dollar of US dollar exchange on net on total US$ million rate earnings equity INR 54.3893 415.3 320.6 Australian dollar 0.9590 0.2 0.2 Euro 0.7820 0.4 0.5 The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 March 2014 where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiaries.
The sensitivities do not take into account the Groups sales and costs and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange influenced factors.
c Interest rate risk At 31 March 2014, the Groups net debt of US$7,919.5 million 2013: US$8,615.6 million net debt comprises cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments of US$8,937.9 million 2013: US$7,981.7 million offset by debt of US$16,871.2 million 2013: US$16,592.8 million and debt derivative asset of US$13.8 million 2013: Liability of US$4.5 million.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on short-term and long-term floating rate instruments and on the refinancing of fixed rate debt.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings and the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt is determined by current market interest rates.
As at 31 March 2014, 48.7% 2013: 42.6% of the total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at a floating rate.
The floating rate debt is largely linked to US dollar LIBOR.
The Group also aims to minimise its average interest rates on borrowings by opting for a higher proportion of long-term debt to fund growth projects.
The Group invests cash and liquid investments in short-term deposits and debt mutual funds, some of which generate a tax-free return, to achieve the Groups goal of maintaining liquidity, carrying manageable risk and achieving satisfactory returns.
Floating rate financial assets are largely mutual fund investments which have debt securities as underlying assets.
The returns from these financial assets are linked to market interest rate movements: however the counterparty invests in the agreed securities with known maturity tenure and return and hence has manageable risk.
Additionally, the investments portfolio at our Indian entities is independently reviewed by CRISIL Limited, and our investment portfolio has been rated as Very Good.
166 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 28.
Financial instruments continued The exposure of the Groups financial assets to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Non-interest Non-interest Floating Fixed rate bearing Floating Fixed rate bearing rate financial financial Equity financial rate financial financial Equity financial US$ million assets assets investments assets assets assets investments assets Financial assets 5,784.9 3,259.7 1.7 1,303.5 4,285.6 3,854.4 20.8 1,661.3 Derivative assets 70.2 31.1 Total financial assets 5,784.9 3,259.7 1.7 1,373.7 4,285.6 3,854.4 20.8 1,692.4 The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Non-interest Non-interest Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Floating rate Fixed rate bearing financial financial financial financial financial financial US$ million liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Financial liabilities 8,996.0 9,478.4 3,169.4 9,633.4 8,756.7 2,998.2 Derivative liabilities 146.1 72.6 Total financial liabilities 8,996.0 9,478.4 3,315.5 9,633.4 8,756.7 3,070.8 The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate financial liabilities is 8.0% 2013: 7.6% and the weighted average period for which the rate is fixed is 4.5 years 2013: 3.06 years.
Considering the net debt position as at 31 March 2014 and the investment in bank deposits and debt mutual funds, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
The below table illustrates the impact of a 0.5% to 2.0% change in interest rate of borrowings on profit and equity and represents managements assessment of the possible change in interest rates.
At 31 March 2014 Effect Effect US$ million on profit for on total Change in interest rates the year equity 0.5% 41.5 41.5 1.0% 83.1 83.1 2.0% 166.1 166.1 At 31 March 2013 Effect Effect US$ million on profit for on total Change in interest rates the year equity 0.5% 47.7 47.7 1.0% 95.4 95.4 2.0% 190.7 190.7 d Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, liquid investments and other financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
Cash and liquid investments are held primarily in mutual funds and banks with good credit ratings.
Defined limits are in place for exposure to individual counterparties in case of mutual fund houses and banks.
The large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured.
Moreover, given the diverse nature of the Groups businesses trade receivables are spread over a number of customers with no significant concentration of credit risk.
Other than the exception of a single customer in our oil & gas business, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups net sales or for any of the Groups primary businesses during the year ended 31 March 2014 and no customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups net sales or for any of the Groups primary businesses during the year ended 31 March 2013.
The history of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore, the Group does not expect any material risk on account of non-performance by any of our counterparties.
The Groups maximum gross exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2014 is US$10,420.0 million 2013: US$9,852.8 million.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 167 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28.
Financial instruments continued Of the year end trade and other receivable balance the following, though overdue, are expected to be realised in the normal course of business and hence, are not considered impaired as at 31 March 2014: US$ million 2014 2013 Less than 1 month 44.7 26.9 Between 13 months 79.8 32.3 Between 312 months 23.0 31.1 Greater than 12 months 96.6 38.7 Total 244.1 129.0 Derivative financial instruments The fair value of all derivatives is separately recorded on the balance sheet within other financial assets derivatives and other financial liabilities derivatives, current and non-current.
In addition, the derivative component of certain convertible bonds is shown as part of the overall convertible bond liability Note 27.
Derivatives that are designated as hedges are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other contracts are treated as separate derivative contracts, when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts.
Cash flow hedges The Group also enters into forward exchange and commodity price contracts for hedging highly probable forecast transactions and accounts for them as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement.
The fair value of the Groups open derivative positions at 31 March 2014, recorded within financial instruments derivative is as follows: As at 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2013 US$ million Liability Asset Liability Asset Current Cash flow hedges Commodity contracts 0.3 0.7 16.4 Forward foreign currency contracts 5.1 0.1 1.0 Fair value hedges Commodity contracts 0.1 0.6 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts 84.1 14.5 19.4 2.6 Non-qualifying hedges Commodity contracts 1.1 5.5 0.6 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts 26.6 0.6 7.4 Interest Rate Swap 1.4 Other Foreign currency swap 12.0 12.0 Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 32.0 3.3 Total 118.7 54.0 44.5 31.1 Non-current Cash Flow hedges Commodity contracts 2.0 Fair Value Hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 0.1 Cross currency swap 14.2 Non-qualifying hedges Interest rate swap 27.3 23.6 Others Foreign Currency Swap 4.4 Total 27.4 16.2 28.0 Grand Total 146.1 70.2 72.5 31.1 The majority of cash flow hedges taken out by the Group during the year comprises commodity contracts and foreign currency forward contracts for firm future commitments.
The cash flows related to majority of cash flow hedges above are expected to occur during the year ended 31 March 2015 and consequently may impact the income statements for that year depending upon the change in the commodity prices and foreign exchange rate movements.
168 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 28.
Financial instruments continued Non-qualifying hedges The majority of these derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts which are economic hedges but which do not fulfil the requirements for hedge accounting of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and also includes cross currency swaps.
Fair value hedges The fair value hedges relate to foreign currency forward contracts taken to hedge currency exposure on purchase of raw materials and capital imports.
Hedging reserves reconciliation NonHedging controlling US$ million reserves interests Total At 1 April 2012 55.6 15.1 70.7 Amount recognised directly in equity 43.6 18.3 61.9 Amount transferred to income statement 73.9 15.5 89.4 Exchange difference 3.1 0.5 3.6 At 1 April 2013 22.2 17.4 39.6 Amount recognised directly in equity 30.3 20.9 51.2 Amount transferred to income statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 Exchange difference 2.5 1.3 3.8 At 31 March 2014 50.4 37.2 87.6 29.
Provisions Restoration, rehabilitation KCM Copper and Price US$ million environmental Participation Other Total At 1 April 2012 274.0 98.0 33.1 405.1 Charged to income statement 26.8 3.3 30.1 Unwinding of discount 15.2 12.1 0.3 27.6 Cash paid 0.8 10.0 6.5 17.3 Exchange differences 11.6 2.9 14.5 At 1 April 2013 303.6 100.1 27.3 431.0 Released Charged to income statement 7.1 8.5 6.2 9.4 Unwinding of discount Note 7 17.1 4.7 21.8 Cash paid 3.6 6.9 3.3 13.8 Exchange differences 3.5 0.1 1.3 4.9 At 31 March 2014 306.5 89.3 28.9 424.7 Current 2014 5.7 70.0 13.0 88.7 Non-current 2014 300.8 19.3 15.9 336.0 306.5 89.3 28.9 424.7 Current 2013 53.4 15.0 68.4 Non-current 2013 303.6 46.7 12.3 362.6 303.6 100.1 27.3 431.0 Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental The provisions for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental liabilities represent the Directors best estimate of the costs which will be incurred in the future to meet the Groups obligations under existing Indian, Australian, Zambian, Namibian, South African and Irish law and the terms of the Groups mining and other licences and contractual arrangements.
These amounts, calculated by considering discount rates within the range of 2% to 9%, become payable on closure of mines and are expected to be incurred over a period of one to 15 years.
Within India, the principal restoration and rehabilitation provisions are recorded within Cairn India where a legal obligation exists relating to the oil & gas fields, where costs are expected to be incurred in restoring the site of production facilities at the end of the producing life of an oil field.
The Group recognises the full cost of site restoration as a liability when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises.
An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production from a producing field.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 169 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Provisions continued KCM copper price participation KCM Copper Price Participation relates to a provision in respect of a price participation agreement in Zambia which requires KCM to pay ZCCM an agreed annual sum when copper price exceeds specified levels and specific triggers.
In the previous years the timing of the outflow was dependent on future copper prices as well as dividends paid.
KCM and ZCCM agreed for final settlement of Copper Price Participation liability.
The total amount that to be paid was US$119.7 million to be settled in 16 instalments with the first instalment starting on 31 December 2012 and last instalment on 30 September 2016.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, one instalment of US$6.9 million is paid.
Total liability that remains outstanding is US$97.8 million as at 31 March 2014.
The provision recognised has been discounted at 7.5% to take into account the expected timings of the various payments and recognised as a liability at US$89.3 million as at 31 March 2014.
Other Other includes provision on post retirement medical benefits.
The expected period of utilisation is 18 years.
Deferred tax The Group has accrued significant amounts of deferred tax.
The majority of the deferred tax liability represents accelerated tax relief for the depreciation of capital expenditure and the depreciation on fair value uplifts created on acquisitions, net of losses carried forward by KCM and Sesa Sterlite Limited post the reorganisation.
The amounts of deferred taxation on temporary differences, provided and not provided, in the accounts are as follows: Provided liabilities assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Accelerated capital allowances 6,185.0 5,711.8 Unutilised tax losses 901.7 381.2 Other temporary differences 1,546.9 1,181.1 3,736.4 4,149.5 Recognised as: Deferred tax liability provided 4,960.1 4,996.6 Deferred tax asset recognised 1,223.7 847.1 3,736.4 4,149.5 Unrecognised deferred tax assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 On Unutilised tax losses and unabsorbed depreciation 372.7 533.1 The above relates to the tax effect on US$750.9 million 2013: US$627.1 million of unutilised tax losses of the Company and VRHL which have no expiry period, US$642 million untilised tax losses of Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited which is subject of Mauritius tax regime and can be carried forward for a period of five years and US$371.3 million of unutilised tax losses and capital allowances for Malco Energy Limited MEL which is subject to the Indian tax regime.
Pursuant to the Indian tax regime, unutilised tax losses expire eight years from the date the losses are recorded, whereas unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward to an indefinite period.
No benefit has been recognised for these items on the grounds that their successful application against future profits is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax asset As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 At 1 April 847.1 402.8 Credited to income statement 459.3 474.5 Charged directly to equity 3.3 0.5 Acquisitions Foreign exchange differences 79.4 29.7 At 31 March 1,223.7 847.1 170 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 30.
Deferred tax continued The Group has US$1,135.1 million of unutilised tax losses at KCM 2013: US$1,263.4 million which expire in the period 2014 to 2022.
The Group has US$1,634.2 million of unutilised tax losses at SSL which is subject to the Indian tax regime.
These unutilised tax losses have been recognised as a deferred tax asset, as they will unwind as the accelerated capital allowances unwind, thereby generating economic benefits for the Company.
Deferred tax liability As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 At 1 April 4,996.6 5,460.2 Charged credited to income statement 33.7 403.5 Charged directly to equity 2.4 4.8 Foreign exchange differences 72.6 68.1 Prior year adjustments 3.2 At 31 March 4,960.1 4,996.6 31.
Share-based payments Employee share schemes The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration for Executive Directors.
Three employee share schemes were approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Board has no present intention to introduce any further share schemes.
The Vedanta Resources Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP and Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP The LTIP and ESOP is the primary arrangement under which share-based incentives are provided to the Executive Directors and the wider management group.
The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual salary.
In respect of Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta, salary means the aggregate of their salary payable by Vedanta and their CTC payable by Sesa Sterlite Limited.
Mr MS Mehta superannuated on 31 March 2014.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to members of the wider management group is calculated by reference to the grade average CTC and individual grade of the employee.
The performance condition attaching to outstanding awards is as follows: ESOP measured in terms of business performance set against business plan for the financial year comprising operational deliverables, enabler parameters and sustainability performance specific to each company.
The vesting schedule is graded over three years and varies from company to company with a minimum vesting of 30% triggering at either 80% or 85% business score.
In another tranche, the vesting schedule is staggered over a period of three years from the date of grant, with 70% vesting based on the achievement of business performance and the remaining 30% based on continued employment with the Group till the end of third year.
LTIP is that the Companys performance, measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over the performance period with the performance of the companies as defined in the scheme from the date of grant.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against a group of peer companies Adapted Comparator Group at the end of the performance period and as moderated by Remuneration Committee.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with adjusted straight-line vesting in between the points shown and rounding down to the nearest whole share.
Vedantas TSR performance against adapted comparator group % of award vesting Below median At median 40 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition is measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group described above.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has out-performed a group of companies chosen to represent the mining sector, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors and the wider management group with those of the shareholders.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is one year for the February 2007 award and three years for all other awards, with no retesting being allowed.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 171 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments continued Initial awards under ESOP were granted on 24 September 2012 with further awards being made on 16 May 2013.
The exercise price of the awards is 10 US cents per share and the performance period is one year.
The exercise period is six months from the date of vesting.
Further details on the LTIP are available in the Remuneration Report of the Annual Report.
As at 31 March 2014, 8,517,348 options remained outstanding and 345,230 options were exercisable at the year end.
The weighted average share price for the share options exercised during the year was 8.5.
All share-based awards of the Group are equity-settled as defined by IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of these awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using the Stochastic valuation model with suitable modifications to allow for the specific performance conditions of the LTIP.
The inputs to the model include the share price at date of grant, exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term and the risk free rate of interest.
A progressive dividend growth policy is assumed in all fair value calculations.
Expected volatility has been calculated using historical share prices over the period to date of grant that is commensurate with the performance period of the option.
The share prices of the mining companies in the Adapted Comparator Group have been modelled based on historical price movements over the period to date of grant which is also commensurate with the performance period for the option.
The history of share prices is used to determine the volatility and correlation of share prices for the companies in the Adapted Comparator Group and is needed for the Stochastic valuation model of their future TSR performance relative to the Companys TSR performance.
All options are assumed to be exercised six months after vesting.
172 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 31.
Share-based payments continued The assumptions used in the calculations of the charge in respect of the LTIP awards granted during the year are set out below: ESOP May 2013 Date of grant 16 May 2013 Number of instruments 3,824,050 Exercise price US$0.10 Share price at the date of grant GBP12.72 Contractual life 1 year 2 years 3 years Expected volatility 36.6% 51.0% 48.0% Expected option life 1.5 years 2.5 years 3.5 years Expected dividends 2.98% Risk free interest rate 0.31% Expected annual forfeitures 10% p. a Fair value per option granted GBP8.2 GBP7.9 GBP7.6 GBP12.2 GBP11.9 GBP11.6 The Group recognised total expenses of US$32.8 million and US$25.5 million related to equity settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013 respectively.
Retirement benefits The Group operates pension schemes for the majority of its employees in India, Australia, Africa and Ireland.
a Defined contribution schemes Indian pension schemes Central Recognised Provident Fund The Central Recognised Provident Fund relates to all full-time Indian employees of the Group.
The amount contributed by the Group is a designated percentage of 12% of basic salary less contributions made as part of the Pension Fund see below, together with an additional contribution of 12% limited to a maximum contribution of 30% in case of the Iron Ore Segment of the salary of the employee.
The benefit is paid to the employee on their retirement or resignation from the Group.
Superannuation Superannuation, another pension scheme applicable in India, is applicable only to executives in grade M4 and above.
However, in case of Cairn India Group and Iron Ore Segment, the benefit is applicable to all executives.
In Cairn India, it is applicable from the second year of employment.
Certain companies hold policies with the Life Insurance Corporation of India LIC, to which they contribute a fixed amount relating to superannuation, and the pension annuity is met by the LIC as required, taking into consideration the contributions made.
Accordingly, this scheme has been accounted for on a defined contribution basis and contributions are charged directly to the income statement.
Pension Fund The Pension Fund was established in 1995 and is managed by the Government of India.
The employee makes no contribution to this fund but the employer makes a contribution of 8.33% of salary each month subject to a specified ceiling per employee.
This must be provided for every permanent employee on the payroll.
At the age of superannuation, contributions cease and the individual receives a monthly payment based on the level of contributions through the years, and on their salary scale at the time they retire, subject to a maximum ceiling of salary level.
The Government funds these payments, thus the Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes, regardless of whether the central fund is in surplus or deficit.
Australian Pension Scheme The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes in Australia.
The contribution of a proportion of an employees salary into a superannuation fund is a compulsory legal requirement in Australia.
The employer contributes 9.25% of the employees gross remuneration where the employee is covered by the industrial agreement and 12.25% of the basic remuneration for all other employees, into the employees fund of choice.
All employees have the option to make additional voluntary contributions.
Zambian Pension Scheme The KCM Pension Scheme is applicable to full-time permanent employees of KCM subject to the fulfilment of certain eligibility criteria.
The management of the scheme is vested in the trustees consisting of representatives of the employer and the members.
The employer makes a monthly contribution to the KCM Pension Scheme and the member makes monthly contributions.
All contributions to the KCM Pension Scheme in respect of a member cease to be payable when the member attains normal retirement age of 55 years, or upon leaving the service of the employer, or when the member is permanently medically incapable of performing duties in the service of the employer.
Upon such cessation of contribution on the grounds of normal retirement, or being rendered medically incapable of performing duties, or early voluntary retirement, the member is entitled to receive his accrued pension.
The member is allowed to commute his her accrued pension subject to certain rules and regulations.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 173 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement benefits continued The Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes.
Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund, Namibia The Skorpion Zinc Provident Fund is a defined contribution fund and is compulsory to all full time employees under the age of 60.
Company contribution to the fund is a fixed percentage of 8% per month of pensionable salary, whilst the employee contributes 7% with the option of making additional contributions, over and above the normal contribution, up to a maximum of 12%.
Normal retirement age is 60 years and benefit payable is the members fund credit which is equal to all employer and employee contributions plus interest.
The same applies when an employee resigns from Skorpion Zinc.
The Fund provides disability cover which is equal to the members fund credit and a death cover of two times annual salary in the event of death before retirement.
The latest actuarial value was performed 31 December 2012.
At that date the Fund was in credit.
The Group has no additional liability beyond the contributions that it makes.
Black Mountain Pty Limited, South Africa Pension & Provident Funds Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd has two retirement funds, both administered by Alexander Forbes, a registered financial service provider.
Both funds form part of the Alexander Forbes umbrella fund and are defined contribution funds.
Membership of both funds is compulsory for all permanent employees under the age of 60.
Lisheen Mine, Ireland Pension Funds Lisheen Pension Plan is for all employees.
Lisheen pays 5% and employees pays 5% with the option to make Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs if desired.
Executive contributions are 15% by Lisheen and a minimum of 5% by the employee with the option to make AVCs if desired.
Death benefit is three times salary for employees and four times salary for executives.
Pension and Life Cover ceases at 65.
b Defined benefit schemes India The Gratuity schemes are defined benefit schemes which are open to all Group employees in India who have a minimum of five years of service with their employing company.
These schemes are funded by the Group in some subsidiaries.
Based on actuarial valuation, a provision is recognised in full for the projected obligation over and above the funds held in scheme.
In case where there is no funding held by the scheme, full provision is recognised in the balance sheet.
Under these schemes, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate funds and a full actuarial valuation of the schemes is carried out on an annual basis.
Sesa Sterlite The Iron ore, Aluminium and copper division of Sesa Sterlite contribute to the LIC Fund based on an actuarial valuation every year.
Sesa Sterlites Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2014 using the projected unit credit actuarial method.
At that date the fund was in deficit.
BALCO At BALCO, all employees who are scheduled to retire on or before 31 March 2014 are being paid by BALCO.
The Gratuity scheme is accounted for as a defined benefit scheme for all employees scheduled to retire after 31 March 2014.
A provision is recognised based on the latest actuarial valuation which was performed as at 31 March 2014 using the projected unit actuarial method.
HZL HZL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation every year.
HZLs Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The latest actuarial valuation was performed as at 31 March 2014 using the projected unit actuarial method.
TSPL TSPL contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation.
Liabilities with regard to the Gratuity scheme are fully provided in the Balance Sheet and are determined by actuarial valuation as at the balance sheet date and as per gratuity regulations for TSPL.
Cairn Cairn contributes to the LIC based on an actuarial valuation every year.
Cairn India Groups Gratuity scheme is accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
174 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 32.
Retirement benefits continued Zambia Specified permanent employees of KCM are entitled to receive medical and retirement severance benefits.
This comprises two months basic pay for every completed year of service with an earliest service start date of 1 July 2004.
Under this scheme, benefits are provided based on final pensionable pay and a full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out on an annual basis.
The accruals are not contributed to any fund and are in the form of provisions in KCMs accounts.
On the death of an employee during service, a lump sum amount is paid to his or her dependants.
This amount is equal to sixty months basic pay for employees who joined before 1 April 2000 and thirty months basic pay for employees who joined on or after 1 April 2000.
For fixed term contract employees, the benefit payable on death is thirty months basic pay.
As at 31 March 2014, membership of pension schemes across SSL, BALCO, HZL, MEL, TSPL, KCM and Cairn stood at 25,286 employees 31 March 2013: 26,690.
The deficits, principal actuarial assumptions and other aspects of these schemes are disclosed in further detail in notes d and e below.
c Pension scheme costs Contributions of US$62.9 million and US$nil in respect of defined benefit schemes were outstanding and prepaid respectively as at 31 March 2014 2013: US$67.0 million and US$nil respectively.
Contributions to all pension schemes in the year ending 31 March 2015 are expected to be around US$6.7 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Defined contribution pension schemes 25.7 26.2 Defined benefit pension schemes 16.7 15.7 Total expense 42.4 41.9 d Principal actuarial assumptions.
Assumptions regarding mortality for Indian entities are based on mortality table of Indian Assured Lives Mortality 2006-2008 published by the Institute of Actuaries of India.
Assumptions regarding mortality for KCM are based on World Health Organisation Life Tables for 1999 applicable to Zambia which has been taken as a reference point.
Based on this, a mortality table which is appropriate for the workers of Konkola Copper Mines plc has been derived.
e Balance sheet recognition At 31 March 2014 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.2 3.2 27.9 1.4 8.2 4.9 45.8 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 0.2 21.2 3.4 29.4 35.5 1.7 9.8 7.5 108.7 Deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 21.2 0.2 1.5 35.5 0.3 1.6 2.6 62.9 Deferred tax 7.2 0.1 0.5 10.6 0.1 0.6 0.9 20.0 Net pension liability 14.0 0.1 1.0 24.9 0.2 1.0 1.7 42.9 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 175 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement benefits continued At 31 March 2013 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Fair value of pension scheme assets 0.2 3.1 30.6 1.0 7.0 4.3 46.2 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 0.2 23.2 4.0 35.3 32.4 1.4 9.6 6.8 112.9 Deficit in pension scheme recognised in balance sheet 23.2 0.9 4.7 32.4 0.4 2.6 2.5 66.7 Deferred tax 7.9 0.3 1.6 9.7 0.1 0.9 0.8 21.3 Net pension liability 15.3 0.6 3.1 22.7 0.3 1.7 1.7 45.4 f Amounts recognised in income statement in respect of defined benefit pension schemes: At 31 March 2014 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Current service cost 0.7 0.3 1.3 5.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 9.9 Net Interest cost 1.5 0.1 0.3 4.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 6.8 Total charge to income statement 2.2 0.4 1.6 10.1 0.3 0.7 1.4 16.7 At 31 March 2013 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Current service cost 0.7 0.4 1.5 5.1 0.2 0.6 1.1 9.6 Net Interest cost 1.4 0.1 0.2 3.6 0.7 0.1 6.1 Total charge to income statement 2.1 0.5 1.7 8.7 0.2 1.3 1.2 15.7 g Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income: At 31 March 2014 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit obligation 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.5 2.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 5.0 Actuarial gains losses on defined gains losses on plan asset 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.8 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability asset 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.1 2.4 0.4 1.2 4.2 At 31 March 2013 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total Actuarial gains losses on defined gains losses on defined benefit obligation 2.0 3.4 0.1 0.7 0.7 6.9 Actuarial gains losses on defined gains losses on plan asset 0.5 0.1 0.6 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability asset 2.0 2.9 0.1 0.7 0.6 6.3 1 Jharsuguda Aluminium earlier VAL, Iron ore Sesa earlier Sesa Goa and Sterlite Copper earlier Sterlite became divisions of Sesa Sterlite Limited post merger Note 44.
176 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 32.
Retirement benefits continued h Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations The movement during the year ended 31 March 2014 of the present value of the defined benefit obligation was as follows: At 31 March 2014 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total At 1 April 0.2 23.2 4.0 35.3 32.4 1.4 9.6 6.8 112.9 Current service cost 0.7 0.3 1.3 5.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 9.9 Gratuity benefits paid 3.1 0.1 6.2 9.5 0.3 1.5 0.3 21.0 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 1.5 0.3 2.5 4.6 0.1 0.8 0.5 10.3 Remeasurement gains losses 0.1 1.0 0.6 0.5 2.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 5.0 Exchange difference 2.1 0.4 4.0 0.1 1.0 0.8 8.4 At 31 March 0.1 21.2 3.5 29.4 35.5 1.7 9.8 7.5 108.7 At 31 March 2013 Sterlite Jharsuguda Iron ore 1 1 1 US$ million MEL BALCO Copper HZL KCM Aluminium Sesa Cairn Total At 1 April 0.2 23.5 3.6 37.5 26.1 0.9 0.9 5.3 106.9 Current service cost 0.7 0.4 0.4 5.1 0.2 0.2 1.1 9.6 Gratuity benefits paid 2.5 0.1 5.8 3.0 0.2 2.4 0.4 14.4 Interest cost of scheme liabilities 1.9 0.3 2.7 4.2 0.1 1.3 0.4 10.9 Remeasurement gains losses 2.0 3.4 0.1 0.17 0.7 6.9 Exchange difference 2.4 0.2 4.0 0.3 0.4 0.3 7.0 At 31 March 0.1 23.2 4.0 35.3 32.4 1.4 9.6 6.8 112.9 1 Jharsuguda Aluminium earlier VAL, Iron ore Sesa earlier Sesa Goa and Sterlite copper earlier Sterlite became divisions of Sesa Sterlite Limited post merger Note 44. i Movements in the fair value of plan assets As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 At 1 April 46.2 47.8 Contributions received 18.5 12.1 Benefits paid 18.0 14.4 Remeasurement gain 0.8 0.1 Interest income 3.5 4.1 Foreign exchange differences 5.2 3.5 At 31 March 45.8 46.2 j Five year history Defined benefit pension plan As at As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience losses arising on scheme liabilities 5.0 6.9 7.0 20.4 11.3 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets 0.8 0.6 Fair value of pension scheme assets 45.8 46.2 47.8 39.3 32.6 Present value of pension scheme liabilities 108.7 112.9 106.9 96.1 69.3 Deficits in the schemes 62.9 66.7 59.1 56.8 36.7 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 177 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32.
Retirement benefits continued k Sensitivity analysis Below is the sensitivity analysis determined for significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of defined benefit obligations and based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the reporting period while holding all other assumptions constant.
Increase decrease in defined benefit US$ million obligation Discount rate Increase by 0.50% 4.7 Decrease by 0.50% 5.1 Salary increase Increase by 0.50% 5.0 Decrease by 0.50% 4.6 The above sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
l Risk analysis The Group is exposed to a number of risks in the defined benefit plans.
Most significant risks pertaining to defined benefits plans and management estimation of the impact of these risks are as follows: Investment risk The most of the Indian defined benefit plans are funded with the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The Group does not have any liberty to manage the fund provided to the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to Government of India bonds for the Groups Indian operations.
If the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Interest risk A decrease in the interest rate on plan assets will increase the plan liability.
Longevity risk life expectancy The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and at the end of the employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan liability.
Salary growth risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
An increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan liability.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard continuity, maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and provide adequate return to shareholders through continuing growth.
The Group sets the amount of capital required on the basis of annual business and long-term operating plans which include capital and other strategic investments.
The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, internal accruals, convertible bonds and other long-term and short-term borrowings.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt as a percentage of total capital.
As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Total equity 17,974.8 18,869.0 Net debt 7,919.5 8,615.6 Total capital 25,894.3 27,484.6 Gearing 30.6% 31.4% The reduction in the gearing ratio compared against the 2013 ratio is due to an 8% decrease in the net debt of the Group set off against a decrease of 5% in total equity.
The primary reason for the decrease in net debt is due to increased levels of liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents when compared to 2013.
178 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 34.
Share capital At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Authorised Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 400,000,000 40.0 400,000,000 40.0 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 400,050,000 40.0 400,050,000 40.0 At 31 March 2014 At 31 March 2013 Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number US$ million Number US$ million Ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 298,182,135 29.8 297,583,010 29.8 Deferred shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 298,232,135 29.8 297,633,010 29.8 During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company issued 550,275 shares to the employees pursuant to the LTIP scheme 2013: 674,965 shares.
Further during the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company issued 48,850 shares on conversion of the convertible bonds issued by Groups subsidiary.
The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, entitle the holder only to the payment of the amounts paid on such shares after repayment to the holders of ordinary shares of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
Of the 50,000 deferred shares, one deferred share was issued at par and has been fully paid, and 49,999 deferred shares were each paid up as to one-quarter of their nominal value.
As on 31 March 2014, 6,904,995 ordinary shares which were issued on the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one of the Groups subsidiaries are held through a Global Depositary Receipts and carry no voting rights.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Company did not buy back any shares under its share buy-back programme 2013: nil.
Non-controlling interests NCI The Group consists of a parent Company, Vedanta Resources plc, incorporated in UK and a number of subsidiaries held directly and indirectly by the Group which operate and are incorporated around the world.
Note 43 to the financial statements lists details of the material interests in the subsidiaries.
Non-controlling interests that are material to the Group relate to Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL, Cairn India Limited Cairn and Sesa Sterlite 2 Limited SSL.
As on 31 March 2014, NCIs hold an economic interest of 62.15%, 65.74% and 41.70% respectively in HZL, Cairn and SSL.
The respective NCI holdings in the previous year were 62.34%, 50.24% and 44.87% respectively.
The changes in NCI during the current year were pursuant to the effectiveness of the Group simplification scheme in August 2014, details of which is set out in Note 44.
Principal place of business of HZL, Cairn and SSL is in India Note 43.
The table below shows details of non-wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Group that have material non-controlling interests: Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 US$ million 2 1 2 2 1 Particulars HZL Cairn SSL Others Total HZL Cairn SIIL SGL Others Total Profit Attributable to NCI 713.1 553.4 117.1 198.1 1,185.4 783.2 646.3 119.5 2.1 31.3 1,515.6 Equity Attributable to NCI 3,997.5 10,520.1 777.2 1,330.4 13,964.4 3,809.4 7,931.7 1,995.3 1,357.1 625.8 14,467.7 3 Dividends paid to NCI 88.9 190.4 59.3 7.3 345.9 79.1 84.0 55.3 16.6 22.4 257.4 1 Others consist of Investment subsidiaries of SSL and other Individual non-material subsidiaries.
2 Merged during the year ended 31 March 2014.
3 Including dividends paid by SIIL during year ended 31 March 2014, before merger.
4 For principal activities, country of incorporation and immediate holding company of the above subsidiaries refer Note 43.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 179 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Non-controlling interests NCI continued Summarised financial information in respect of Groups subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is set out below.
Joint arrangements Joint operations The Groups principal licence interests in oil & gas business are joint operations.
The principal licence interests are as follows: Working Interest % India Block PKGM-1 Ravva 22.50 Block KG-ONN-2003 1 49.00 Block CB-OS 2-Exploration 60.00 Block CB OS-2 Development and production areas 40.00 Block RJ-ON-90 1 Development and production areas 70.00 Block RJ-ON-90 1-Exploration 100.00 Block PR-OSN-2004 1 35.00 Block KG-OSN-2009 3 100.00 Block MB-DWN-2009 1 100.00 South Africa South Africa Block 1 60.00 Sri Lanka SL-2007-01-001 100.00 37.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies Commitments The Group has a number of continuing operational and financial commitments in the normal course of business including: Exploratory mining commitments: Mining commitments arising under production sharing agreements: and Completion of the construction of certain assets.
As at As at 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Capital commitments contracted but not provided 2,702.7 2,305.9 180 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 37.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies continued Commitments at primarily related to the expansion projects: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 HZL 446.7 510.7 KCM 6.6 61.3 Jharsuguda Aluminium 621.0 631.6 Jharsuguda 2,400MW Power Plant 31.5 31.8 BALCO 73.2 114.4 Talwandi Sabo 141.9 317.6 Sterlite Copper 236.6 277.2 Cairn 1,052.3 327.7 Total 2,609.8 2,272.3 Guarantees Companies within the Group provide guarantees within the normal course of business.
Guarantees have also been provided in respect of certain short-term and long-term borrowings.
A summary of the most significant guarantees is set out below: As at 31 March 2014, US$234.9 million of guarantees were advanced to banks, suppliers etc.
in the normal course of business 2013: US$217.1 million.
The Group has also entered into guarantees and bonds advanced to the customs authorities in India of US$727.2 million relating to the export and payment of import duties on purchases of raw material and capital goods including export obligations 2013: US$1,638.8 million.
Cairn PSC guarantee to Government The Group has provided parent Company guarantee for the Cairn India Groups obligation under the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Cairn India have provided various other guarantees under the Cairn India Groups bank facilities for the Cairn India Groups share of minimum work programme commitments of US$18.9 million is outstanding as of 31 March 2014 2013: US$22.1 million.
Export obligations The Indian entities of the Group have export obligations of US$3,789.9 million 2013: US$4,013.4 million on account of concessional rates of import duty paid on capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme and under the Advance Licence Scheme for import of raw material laid down by the Government of India.
In the event of the Groups inability to meet its obligations, the Groups liability would be US$478.4 million 2013: US$501.7 million, reduced in proportion to actual exports, plus applicable interest.
Contingencies MEL claims with Tamil Nadu Electricity Board TNEB TNEB is claiming US$17.0 million from MEL for an electricity self-generation levy for the period from May 1999 to June 2003.
This claim has arisen since the commissioning of MELs captive power plant in 1999.
The Company has sought an exemption from the application of this levy from the Government of Tamil Nadu.
The application is under consideration.
Meanwhile, the Madras High Court has in its recent Order, remitted back the case to the State of Tamil Nadu, to take a decision afresh on the representation for grant of tax exemption on consumption of electricity and directed to pass a detailed speaking order.
HZL: Department of Mines and Geology The Department of Mines and Geology of the State of Rajasthan issued several show cause notices in August, September and October 2006 to HZL, totalling US$55.6 million.
These notices alleged unlawful occupation and unauthorised mining of associated minerals other than zinc and lead at HZLs Rampura Agucha, Rajpura Dariba and Zawar mines in Rajasthan during the period from July 1968 to March 2006.
HZL believes that the claim becoming an obligation of the Company is unlikely and thus no provision has been made in the financial statements.
HZL has filed writ petitions in the High Court of Rajasthan in Jodhpur and has obtained a stay in respect of these demands.
RICHTER: Income Tax The Group through its subsidiaries Richter Holdings Limited Richter and Westglobe Limited Westglobe in 2007 acquired the entire stake in Finsider International Company Limited based in the United Kingdom.
Finsider at that point in time held 51% stake in erstwhile Sesa Goa Limited.
In October 2013, the Indian Tax Authorities Tax Authorities have served an order on Richter and Westglobe for alleged failure to deduct withholding tax on capital gain on the indirect acquisition of shares in April 2007.
The Tax Authorities held that Richter and Westglobe were assessed in default for non-deduction of tax while making payment for acquiring the shares in 2007.
The Tax Authorities determined the liability for such non-deduction of tax as US$145.8 million comprising of tax and interest in case of Richter and US$97.1 million in case of Westglobe.
Being aggrieved, Richter and Westglobe filed appeals before first appellate authority.
As regards constitutional validity of retrospective amendment made by Finance Act 2012 for imposing obligation to deduct tax on payments made against an already concluded transaction, writ petitions were filed in the High Court of Karnataka and the hearing is in progress.
Richter and Westglobe believe that they are not liable for such withholding tax and intends to defend the proceedings.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 181 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Commitments, guarantees and contingencies continued Cairn India: Income Tax In March 2014, Cairn India received a show cause notice from the Indian Tax Authorities Tax Authorities for not deducting withholding tax on the payments made to Cairn UK Holdings Limited CUHL UK, for acquiring shares of Cairn India Holdings Limited CIHL, as part of their internal reorganisation.
Tax authorities have stated in the said notice that a short-term capital gain has accrued to CUHL on transfer of the shares of CIHL to Cairn India, in financial year 20062007, on which tax should have been withheld by the Company.
The Company believes that the transaction is not liable for any withholding tax on account of retrospective amendment by insertion of Explanation 5 to Section 9 1 i of Indian Income Tax Act 1961 and that Cairn India intends to defend its position before the Tax Authorities, as well as taking appropriate legal course by way of filing writ petitions challenging the constitutional validity of retrospective amendment.
Sesa Sterlite Limited: Contractor claim Shenzhen Shandong Nuclear Power Construction Co. Limited SSNP subsequent to terminating the EPC contract invoked arbitration as per the contract alleging non-payment of their dues towards construction of a 210MW co-generation power plant for 6mtpa expansion project, and filed a claim of US$296 million.
SSNP also filed a petition under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 before the Bombay High Court praying for interim relief.
The Bombay High Court initially dismissed their petition, but on a further appeal by SSNP, the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court directed Jharsuguda aluminium to deposit a bank guarantee for an amount of US$29.8 million as a security, being a prima facie representation of the claim, until arbitration proceedings are completed.
Jharsuguda Aluminium has deposited a bank guarantee of equivalent amount.
Management is of the opinion that this claim is not valid under the terms of the contract with SSNP and it is unlikely that SSNP can legally sustain the claim and accordingly, no provision is considered necessary.
Miscellaneous disputes SSL, HZL, MEL, BALCO, Cairn and Lisheen The Group is subject to various claims and exposures which arise in the ordinary course of conducting and financing its business from the income tax, excise, indirect authorities and others.
These claims and exposures mostly relate to the assessable values of sales and purchases or to incomplete documentation supporting the companies returns or other claims.
The approximate value of claims against the Group companies total US$1,150.1 million 2013: US$1,212.7 million, of which US$30.2 million 2013: US$27.2 million is included as a provision in the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014.
The Group considers that it can take steps such that the risks can be mitigated and that there are no significant unprovided liabilities arising.
Related party transactions The information below sets out transactions and balances between the Group and various related parties in the normal course of business for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Sterlite Technologies Limited STL Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Sales to STL 102.3 205.2 Reimbursement of expenses 0.3 0.1 Purchases 0.0 4.7 Net Interest Received 0.2 0.3 Net amounts receivable at year end 5.4 10.5 Sterlite Technologies Limited is related by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Pursuant to the terms of the Shared Services Agreement, dated 5 December 2003, entered into by the Company and STL, the Company provides various commercial services in relation to STLs businesses on an arms length basis and at normal commercial terms.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the commercial services provided to STL were performed by certain senior employees of the Group on terms set out in the Shared Services Agreement.
The services provided to STL in this year amounted to US$0.03 million 2013: US$0.04 million.
Vedanta Foundation During the year US$0.7 million was paid to the Vedanta Foundation 2013: US$1.3 million.
Vedanta Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in computer education and other related social and charitable activities.
The major activity of the Vedanta Foundation is providing computer education for disadvantaged students.
The Vedanta Foundation is a related party as it is controlled by members of the Agarwal family who control Volcan.
Volcan is also the majority shareholder of Vedanta Resources plc.
Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited Following the acquisition of erstwhile Sea Goa Limited, the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited, a charitable institution, became a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group have significant influence on the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, US$0.8 million 2013: US$0.7 million was paid to the Sesa Goa Community Foundation Limited.
182 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 38.
Related party transactions continued The Anil Agarwal Foundation During the year, nil 2013: US$0.01 million was received from the Anil Agarwal Foundation towards reimbursement of administrative expenses.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is a registered not-for-profit entity engaged in social and charitable activities.
The Anil Agarwal Foundation is controlled by members of the Agarwal family.
Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Reimbursement of expenses 0.1 Loan balance receivable 2.7 7.3 Receivable at year end 0.4 0.4 Net Interest received 0.4 0.6 Sterlite Iron and Steel Limited is a related party by virtue of having the same controlling party as the Group, namely Volcan.
Vedanta Medical Research Foundation Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Donation 0.9 4.8 Vedanta Medical Research Foundation is a related party of the Group on the basis that key management personnel of the Group exercise significant influence.
Volcan Investments Limited Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Reimbursement of expenses 0.3 Net amount receivable at the year end 0.2 0.2 Dividend paid 102.1 94.1 Volcan Investments Limited is a related party of the Group by virtue of being an ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Public and Political Awareness Trust Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Donation 0.02 0.9 Public and Political Awareness Trust is a related party by virtue of being controlled by members of Agarwal family.
Ashrust LLP Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Payments made during the year 0.3 0.7 Amount payable at year end 0.2 Ashurst LLP, is a related party of the Group on the basis that an Independent Director of the Group was a partner in the legal firm Ashurst LLP during the year ended 31 March 2014.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 183 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38.
Related party transactions continued Remuneration of key management personnel Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Short-term employee benefits 13.6 17.3 Post-employment benefits 0.9 0.7 Share-based payments 3.1 4.0 Termination benefits 0.3 0.0 17.9 22.0 Relatives of key management personnel Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Salary paid 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 39.
Call option HZL In pursuance to the Government of Indias policy of disinvestment and the Share Purchase Agreement and a Shareholders Agreement SHA both dated 4 April 2002 entered into with the Government of India, the Company acquired 26% equity interest in HZL.
Under the terms of the SHA, the Group had two call options to purchase all of the Government of Indias shares in HZL at fair market value.
The Group exercised the first call option on 29 August 2003 and acquired an additional 18.9% of HZLs issued share capital.
The Company also acquired additional 20% of the equity capital in HZL through an open offer, increasing its shareholding to 64.9%.
The second call option provides Group the right to acquire the Government of Indias remaining 29.5% share in HZL.
This call option is subject to the right of the Government of India to sell 3.5% of HZL shares to HZL employees.
The Group exercised the second call option via its letter dated 21 July 2009.
The Government of India disputed the validity of call option and has refused to act upon the second call option.
Consequently the Company invoked arbitration and filed a statement of claim.
The arbitration proceedings are under progress in early stages.
The next date of hearing is fixed on 13 September 2014. b.
Call option BALCO The Group purchased a 51.0% holding in BALCO from the Government of India on March 2, 2001.
Under the terms of the shareholders agreement SHA for BALCO, the Group has a call option that allows it to purchase the Government of Indias remaining ownership interest in BALCO at any point from 2 March 2004.
The Group exercised this option on 19 March 2004.
However, the Government of India has contested the valuation and validity of the option and contended that the clauses of the SHA violate the provision of Section 111A of the Indian Companies Act, 1956 by restricting the rights of Government of India to transfer its shares and that as a result such provisions of the SHA were null and void.
Subsequently the Group referred the matter to arbitration as provided in the SHA and the majority award of the arbitral tribunal rejected the claims of the Group on the ground that the clauses relating to the call option, the right of first refusal, the tag-along rights and the restriction on the transfer of shares violate the Indian Companies Act, 1956 and are not enforceable.
The Group challenged the validity of the majority award under section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in the High Court of Delhi and sought for setting aside the arbitration award to the extent that it holds these clauses ineffective and inoperative.
The Government of India also filed an application before the High Court of Delhi to partially set aside the arbitral award in respect of certain matters involving valuation.
The High Court of Delhi passed an order dated 10 August 2011 directing our application and the application by the Government of India to be heard together as they arise from a common arbitral award.
The matter is currently pending before the High Court of Delhi and scheduled for final hearing on 21 August 2014.
On 9 January 2012, the Group offered to acquire the Government of Indias interests in HZL and BALCO for US$2,577.7 million and US$296.5 million, respectively.
The Group has, by way of letters dated 10 April 2012 and 6 July 2012, sought to engage with the Government of India on the same terms as the offer.
This offer was separate from the contested exercise of the call options, and Group proposed to withdraw the ongoing litigations in relation to the contested exercise of the options should the offer be accepted.
To date, the offer has not been accepted by the Government of India and therefore there is no certainty that the acquisition will proceed.
The Group continue to include the shareholding in the two companies HZL and BALCO, in respect of which the Group has a call option as non-controlling interest.
184 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 40.
Accounting policy changes Restatement Consequent to amendments in new accounting standards as enumerated in Note 1, the Group has restated the statement of financial performance and position of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2013 so as to show the impact of applicable accounting standards for the Group.
The impact of adoption of these new accounting standards is as follows: As reported As restated at 31 March at 31 March US$ million 2013 IFRIC 20 IAS 19 R 2013 Continuing operations 1 Revenue 14,640.2 14,640.2 1 Cost of sales 11,352.7 11.5 6.3 11,334.9 Gross profit 3,287.5 11.5 6.3 3,305.3 Other operating income 90.3 90.3 Other operating costs 865.8 865.8 Operating profit 2,512.0 11.5 6.3 2,529.8 Finance costs net 806.1 806.1 Profit before taxation 1,705.9 11.5 6.3 1,723.7 Tax expense 40.1 3.9 2.1 46.1 Profit for the year 1,665.8 7.6 4.2 1,677.6 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 157.4 2.9 1.7 162.0 Non-controlling interests 1,508.4 4.7 2.5 1,515.6 Earnings per share US cents Basic earnings per ordinary share 57.7 1.1 0.6 59.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 56.7 1.0 0.6 58.3 1 Restated as a result of reallocation of inter-company sales via an external agent.
As reported As restated at 31 March at 31 March US$ million 2013 IFRIC 20 IAS 19 R 2013 Profit for the year 1,665.8 7.6 4.2 1,677.6 Income and expenses recognised directly in equity: Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Actuarial gain losses on post retirement defined benefit plan.
6.3 6.3 Tax effects on items recognised directly in the equity 2.1 2.1 Total a 4.2 4.2 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 707.9 707.9 Other comprehensive income 37.5 37.5 Tax effect on other comprehensive income 6.7 6.7 Total b 752.1 752.1 Other comprehensive income for the year a b 752.1 4.2 756.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 913.7 7.6 921.3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 124.3 2.9 121.4 Non-controlling interests 1,038.0 4.7 1,042.7 As reported As restated at 31 March at 31 March US$ million 2013 IFRIC 20 IAS 19 R 2013 Property, plant and equipment 33,120.6 12.0 33,132.6 Inventories 1,966.1 0.5 1,965.6 Deferred tax liabilities 4,992.7 3.9 4,996.6 Other reserves 791.0 1.7 789.3 Retained earnings 3,628.0 2.9 1.7 3,632.6 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,398.4 2.9 4,401.3 Non-controlling interests 14,463.0 4.7 14,467.7 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 185 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 41.
Konkola Copper Mines: Value Added Tax An assessment of output tax amounting to US$600 million has been raised by the Zambia Revenue Authority ZRA covering the years 2011, 2012 and the first quarter of 2013.
The basis of assessment is that KCM has not provided all the documentary evidence that is required under Rule 18 of the Value Added Tax Rules to prove an export and as a consequence, all sales of product that were zero rated in the returns have been standard rated by assessment.
KCM has filed for judicial review of the ZRAs decision to standard rate the export products.
After legally analysing the interpretation of Rule 18, management believes that KCM has got a reasonably strong arguable defence in the case.
Subsequent events There are no subsequent events that were identified which may have a bearing on the understanding of the financial statements.
List of subsidiaries The financial statements comprise the financial statements of the following subsidiaries: The Companys economic Immediate percentage holding percentage holding 31 March 31 March Country of Immediate 31 March 31 March Subsidiaries Principal activities 2014 2013 incorporation holding company 2014 2013 Direct Subsidiaries of the parent Company Vedanta Resources Holding Limited Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VR plc 100.00% 100.00% VRHL Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% VRJL-II Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Resources Investments Financing company 100.00% Great Britain VR plc 100.00% 1 Limited VRIL Vedanta Jersey Investments Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VR plc 100.00% 100.00% VJIL Indirect Subsidiaries of the parent Company Sesa Sterlite Limited SSL earlier Sesa Copper smelting, 58.29% 55.13% India Twin Star 46.20% 3.83% Goa Limited iron ore mining, aluminium mining, refining and smelting, power generation 3 Bharat Aluminium Company Limited Aluminium mining 29.73% 29.59% India SSL 51.00% BALCO and smelting Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited Copper mining 58.29% 58.02% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% CMT Fujairah Gold Gold & silver 58.29% 58.02% UAE CMT 98.00% 100.00% processing 3 Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL Zinc and mining and 37.85% 37.66% India SSL 64.92% smelting 4 The Madras Aluminium Company Limited Energy generation 94.81% India Twin Star 78.80% 3 Monte Cello BV MCBV Holding company 58.29% 58.02% Netherlands SSL 100.00% Monte Cello Corporation NV MCNV Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Netherlands Twin Star 100.00% 100.00% Konkola Copper Mines PLC KCM Copper mining and 79.42% 79.42% Zambia VRHL 79.42% 79.42% smelting 4 Sterlite Energy Limited SEL Energy generation 58.02% India Sterlite 100.00% Sesa Resources Limited SRL Iron ore 58.29% 55.13% India SSL 100.00% 100.00% Sesa Mining Corporation Private Limited Iron ore 58.29% 55.13% India SRL 100.00% 100.00% 4 Sterlite Industries India Limited Sterlite Copper smelting 58.02% India Twin Star 54.64% 3 Sterlite Infra Limited SIL Non-trading 58.29% 58.02% India SSL 100.00% Thalanga Copper Mines Pty Limited TCM Copper mining 58.29% 58.02% Australia MCBV 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Holdings Limited Twin Star Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 100.00% 5 3 MALCO Energy Limited MEL earlier Power generation 100.00% 87.61% India SSL 100.00% Vedanta Aluminium Limited 186 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 43.
List of Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage holding percentage holding 31 March 31 March Country of Immediate 31 March 31 March Subsidiaries Principal activities 2014 2013 incorporation holding company 2014 2013 Richter Holding Limited Richter Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Westglobe Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius Richter 100.00% 100.00% Finsider International Company Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain Richter 60.00% 60.00% Vedanta Resources Finance Limited VRFL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Resources Cyprus Limited VRCL Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRFL 100.00% 100.00% Welter Trading Limited Welter Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Cyprus VRCL 100.00% 100.00% Lakomasko B. V. Financing company 58.29% 58.02% Netherlands THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% Holding B. V. THL Zinc Ventures Limited Financing company 58.29% 58.02% Mauritius SIL 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Energy Holdings Limited TEHL Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Mauritius BFM 100.00% THL Zinc Limited Financing company 58.29% 58.02% Mauritius THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% Ventures Ltd 3 Sterlite USA Inc. Financing company 58.29% 58.02% USA SSL 100.00% 3 Talwandi Sabo Power Limited Energy generation 58.29% 58.02% India SSL 100.00% Konkola Resources plc Holding company 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain VRHL 100.00% 100.00% Twin Star Mauritius Holdings Limited Holding company 58.29% 100.00% Mauritius TEHL 100.00% 100.00% TMHL THL Zinc Namibia Holdings Pty Mining and 58.29% 58.02% Namibia THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% Limited VNHL exploration Skorpion Zinc Pty Limited SZPL Acquisition of 58.29% 58.02% Namibia VNHL 100.00% 100.00% immovable and movable properties Namzinc Pty Limited SZ Mining 58.29% 58.02% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% Skorpion Mining Company Pty Limited Mining 58.29% 58.02% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% NZ Amica Guesthouse Pty Ltd Accommodation and 58.29% 58.02% Namibia SZPL 100.00% 100.00% catering services Rosh Pinah Healthcare Pty Ltd Leasing out of 40.22% 40.03% Namibia SZPL 69.00% 69.00% medical equipment and building and conducting services related thereto Black Mountain Mining Pty Ltd Mining 43.13% 42.94% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 74.00% 74.00% THL Zinc Holding BV Financing company 58.29% 58.02% Netherlands Sterlite Infra 100.00% 100.00% Lisheen Mine Partnership Mining partnership firm 58.29% 58.02% Ireland VLML 50.00% 50.00% Pecvest 17 Proprietary Ltd. Investment company 58.29% 58.02% South Africa THL Zinc Ltd 100.00% 100.00% Vedanta Lisheen Holdings Limited VLHL Investment company 58.29% 58.02% Ireland THL Zinc 100.00% 100.00% Holding BV 2 Vedanta Exploration Ireland Limited Exploration company 58.29% Ireland VLHL 100.00% Vedanta Lisheen Mining Limited VLML Mining 58.29% 58.02% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Mining Limited Mining 58.29% 58.02% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Killoran Lisheen Finance Limited Investment company 58.29% 58.02% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% Lisheen Milling Limited Manufacturing 58.29% 58.02% Ireland VLHL 100.00% 100.00% 3 Vizag General Cargo Berth Private Limited Infrastructure 43.63% 42.94% India 74.00% SSL 3 Paradip Multi Cargo Berth Private Limited Infrastructure 43.13% 42.94% India SSL 74.00% 3 Sterlite Ports Limited SPL Investment company 58.29% 58.02% India SSL 100.00% 2 Maritime Ventures Private Limited Infrastructure 58.29% India SPL 100.00% Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 187 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 43.
List of Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage holding percentage holding 31 March 31 March Country of Immediate 31 March 31 March Subsidiaries Principal activities 2014 2013 incorporation holding company 2014 2013 3 Sterlite Infraventures Limited Investment company 58.29% 58.02% India SSL 100.00% Bloom Fountain Limited BFM Investment company 58.29% 55.13% Mauritius SSL 100.00% 100.00% Western Clusters Limited Mining company 58.29% 55.13% Liberia BFM 100.00% 100.00% 4 Ekaterina Limited EKTL Investment company 100.00% Mauritius Twin Star 64.54% Goa Energy Limited Energy generation 58.29% 55.13% India SSL 100.00% 100.00% 2 Sesa Sterlite Mauritius Holdings Limited Financing company 100.00% Mauritius VRHL 100.00% 2 Vedanta Finance UK Limited Financing company 100.00% Great Britain Welter 100.00% Valliant Jersey Limited Financing company 100.00% 100.00% Jersey CI VRJLII 100.00% 100.00% 1 Sesa Sterlite US LLC Investment company 100.00% USA VRHL 100.00% 1 Sesa Sterlite US Corporation Investment company 100.00% USA VRHL 100.00% Cairn India Limited Oil & gas exploration, 34.30% 49.76% India TMHL 38.73% 38.68% development and production Cairn India Holdings Limited Investment company 34.30% 49.76% Jersey Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% Limited Cairn Energy Holdings Limited Investment company 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Hydrocarbons Ltd Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
7 Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
6 Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited 1 Cairn Exploration No.
4 Limited Exploration & 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Exploration No.
2 Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Gujarat Block 1 Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Discovery Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% production Holdings Limited 1 Cairn Petroleum India Limited Exploration & 49.76% Scotland Cairn India 100.00% production Holdings Limited Cairn Energy Cambay B. V. Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production Cambay Holding B. V. Cairn Energy India West B. V. Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production India West Holding B. V. Cairn Energy Gujarat B. V. Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production Gujarat Holding B. V 188 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 43.
List of Subsidiaries continued The Companys economic Immediate percentage holding percentage holding 31 March 31 March Country of Immediate 31 March 31 March Subsidiaries Principal activities 2014 2013 incorporation holding company 2014 2013 1 Cairn Energy India Holdings B. V. Holding company 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% Group Holdings B. V. 1 Cairn Energy Group Holdings B. V. Holding company 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% Netherlands Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Netherlands Holdings B. V. Holding company 34.30% 49.76% Netherlands Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% Holdings Limited 1 Cairn Energy Gujarat Holding B. V. Holding company 49.76% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Energy India Holdings B. V. 1 Cairn Energy India West Holding B. V. Holding company 49.76% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Energy India Holdings B. V. 1 Cairn Energy Cambay Holding B. V. Holding company 49.76% Netherlands Cairn 100.00% Energy India Holdings B. V. Cairn Energy Australia Pty Limited Holding company 34.30% 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% Group Holdings B. V. 1 CEH Australia Limited Holding company 49.76% British Virgin Cairn Energy 100.00% Island Australia Pty Limited 1 Cairn Energy Asia Pty Limited Holding company 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 68.18% Australia Pty Limited Cairn Energy Investments Australia Pty Holding company 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% 1 Limited Asia Pty Limited 1 Wessington Investments Pty Limited Holding company 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% Asia Pty Limited 1 Sydney Oil Company Pty Limited Holding company 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% Investments Australia Pty Limited Cairn Energy India Pty Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Australia Cairn Energy 100.00% production Australia Pty Limited CEH Australia Pty Limited Holding company 34.30% 49.76% Australia CEH Australia 100.00% 100.00% Limited CIG Mauritius Holdings Private Limited Investment company 34.30% 49.76% Mauritius Cairn India 100.00% 100.00% Limited CIG Mauritius Private Limited Investment company 34.30% 49.76% Mauritius CIG Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% Holding Private Limited Cairn Lanka Pvt Ltd Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% Sri Lanka CIG Mauritius 100.00% 100.00% production Pvt Ltd Cairn South Africa Pty Limited Exploration & 34.30% 49.76% South Africa Cairn Energy 100.00% 100.00% production Hydrocarbons Limited Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 189 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 43.
List of Subsidiaries continued 1 Dissolved during the year.
3 Acquired by SSL during the year pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation earlier subsidiaries of Sterlite Note 44.
4 Merged with SSL during the year pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation Note 44.
5 Pursuant to the Scheme of Amalgamation.
The Group owns directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of all of its subsidiaries as mentioned in the list above, and the Group is able to govern its subsidiaries financial and operating policies so as to benefit from their activities.
Group restructuring: Pursuant of the Scheme of Amalgamation the Scheme sanctioned by the Indian and Mauritius Courts, Groups subsidiary companies viz.
Sterlite Energy Limited, Sterlite Industries India Limited, Aluminium Business of Vedanta Aluminium Limited, Ekaterina Limited and Residual business of Madras Aluminium Company Limited merged with Sesa Goa Limited SGL A subsidiary of the Group.
Bloom Fountain Limited, a subsidiary of Sesa Goa Limited acquired a 38.7% stake in Cairn India Limited Cairn.
Consequent to this, Cairn became a subsidiary of SGL.
By way of a slump sale agreement dated 19 August 2013 between Vedanta Aluminium Limited VAL and SSL, the power business consisting of 1,215MW thermal power facility situated at Jharsuguda and 300MW co-generation facility 90MW operational and 210 MW under development at Lanjigarh, was transferred on a going concern basis at its carrying value.
Subsequently, the name of SGL has been changed to Sesa Sterlite Limited SSL.
These transactions are within subsidiaries of the Company and will not have any acquisition accounting impact other than change in the economic shareholding percentage.
The simplification exercise has resulted in simplifying the structure, cross holding and aligning the debt with cash flow and change in economic holding percentage mainly in VAL and Cairn.
VALs effective holding has changed from 87.6% to 58.3% whereas Cairns reduced from 49.8% to 34.3%.
Ultimate controlling party At 31 March 2014, the ultimate controlling party of the Group was Volcan, which is controlled by persons related to the Executive Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal.
Volcan is incorporated in the Bahamas, and does not produce Group accounts.
190 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 46.
Company Balance Sheet 31 March 31 March US$ million Note 2014 2013 Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets 48 0.7 0.6 Investments in subsidiaries 49 1,061.8 1,061.8 Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries 50 1.7 178.9 Financial asset investment 51 0.1 0.1 Derivative asset 14.1 1,078.4 1,241.4 Current assets Debtors due within one year 52 1,225.7 788.8 Debtors due after one year 52 5,405.2 4,899.3 Current asset investments 53 14.8 89.5 Cash at bank and in hand 0.5 0.6 6,646.2 5,778.2 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Trade and other creditors 54 98.5 68.9 External borrowings 54 89.7 499.3 Loan from subsidiary 54 1,249.5 1,059.9 Derivative liability 54 4.5 1,437.7 1,632.7 Net current assets 5,208.5 4,145.5 Total assets less current liabilities 6,286.9 5,386.9 Creditors: amounts falling due after one year Loan from subsidiary 55 339.8 1,069.8 External borrowings 55 5,483.6 3,481.4 5,823.4 4,551.2 Net assets 463.5 835.7 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 56 29.8 29.8 Share premium 56 198.5 196.8 Share-based payment reserve 56 46.9 29.0 Convertible bond reserve 56 80.1 302.9 Other reserves 56 2.2 2.2 Treasury shares 56 490.6 490.6 Retained earnings 56 601.0 770.0 Equity shareholders funds 56 463.5 835.7 Financial Statements of Vedanta Resources plc, registration number 4740415 were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 May 2014 and signed on behalf by Tom Albanese Chief Executive Officer Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 191 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 47.
Company accounting policies The Vedanta Resources plc the Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and UK company law UK GAAP.
The financial information has been prepared on an historical cost basis except preference shares which are stated at fair value.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The loss after tax for the period of the Company amounted to US$128.3 million 2013: loss of US$15.7 million These financial statements are presented in US dollars being the functional currency of the Company.
Significant accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries except preference shares, valued at cost less any provision for impairment.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries Investments in preference shares of subsidiaries are stated at fair value.
The fair value is represented by the face value of the preference shares as the investments are redeemable at any time for their face value at the option of the Company.
Financial asset investments Financial asset investments are classified as available for sale under FRS 26 and are initially recorded at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company, being US dollars, are translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates, or at a contractual rate if applicable.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Amounts recharged to subsidiaries in respect of awards granted to employees of subsidiaries are recognised as intercompany debtors until repaid.
Borrowings Interest bearing loans are recorded at the net proceeds received i. e. net of direct transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on accruals basis and charged to the profit and loss account using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
192 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 47.
Company accounting policies continued Convertible bonds The Convertible bonds issued by VRJL and VRJL-II Note 54 are accounted for as a compound instrument.
The gross proceeds net of issue costs were lent to the Company by VRJL and VRJL-II.
The equity component has been recognised in a separate reserve of the Company and is not subsequently remeasured.
The recognition of the equity component by the company acts to reduce the payable to VRJL and VRJL-II which arises once the gross proceeds are borrowed.
The interest expensed on the liability component is calculated by applying an effective interest rate.
The difference between interest expensed and interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component.
The bonds are first convertible into preference shares of the issuer having a principal value of US$100,000 per preference share, which are exchanged immediately for ordinary shares of the Company.
Financial instruments The Company has elected to take the exemption provided in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 in respect of these parent Company financial statements.
Full disclosures are provided in Note 28 to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 March 2014.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at their fair value on the date of the derivative transaction and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account.
The hedged item is recorded at fair value and any gain or loss is recorded in the profit and loss account and is offset by the gain or loss from the change in the fair value of the derivative.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Cash flow statement The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements because the Company prepares publicly available Group financial statements, which include a consolidated cash flow statement.
Accordingly, the Company does not present an individual company cash flow statement.
Related party disclosures The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its Group financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do not include related party disclosures.
Financial guarantees Guarantees issued by the Company on behalf of other Group companies are designated as Insurance Contracts.
Accordingly these are shown as contingent liabilities.
Note 57 Debtors Debtors are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment for debtors is made where there is an indication of a reduction in the recoverability of the carrying value of the debtor.
Creditors Creditors are stated at their nominal value.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 193 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 48.
Company tangible fixed assets US$ million Cost At 1 April 2012 1.5 Additions 0.4 At 31 March 2013 1.9 Additions 0.4 At 31 March 2014 2.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2012 1.2 Charge for the period 0.1 At 31 March 2013 1.3 Charge for the period 0.3 At 31 March 2014 1.6 Net book value At 1 April 2012 0.3 At 31 March 2013 0.6 At 31 March 2014 0.7 49.
Investments in subsidiaries US$ million Cost At 1 April 2012 1,061.8 At 1 April 2013 1,061.8 At 31 March 2014 1,061.8 At 31 March 2014, the Company held 144,538,524 shares in VRHL 2013: 144,538,524 shares, being 100% of VRHLs issued equity share capital.
The Company also held one deferred share in VRHL 2013: one.
At 31 March 2014, the Company held two shares in Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL 2013: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL 2013: two, two shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited VRJL-II 2013: two, two shares in Vedanta Jersey Investment Limited VJIL 2013: two, being 100% of its issued equity share capital.
VRHL is an intermediary holding company incorporated in England and Wales.
VFJL, VRJL and VRJL-II are companies established to raise funds for the Vedanta Group via convertible bond issue and are incorporated in Jersey.
A detailed list of subsidiary investments held indirectly by the Company can be seen in Note 43.
Investment in preference shares of subsidiaries US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2013 178.9 Additions 1.7 Disposal 178.9 At 31 March 2014 1.7 As 1 April 2012 178.9 Additions At 31 March 2013 178.9 As at 31 March 2014, the Company held 1,700,000 preference shares in Vedanta Resources Jersey Limited VRJL 2013: 178,916,000 in Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL The investment in preference shares of VFJL was fully redeemed during the year.
During the year VRJL received notice from the bondholders to exercise the option to convert US$1,700,000 bonds into equity shares of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Offer circular and accordingly 17 preference shares with a nominal value of US$100,000 each were issued by VRJL to the Company.
194 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 51.
Financial asset investment US$ million Fair value At 1 April 2013 0.1 Fair value movement At 31 March 2014 0.1 At 1 April 2012 0.3 Fair value movement 0.2 At 31 March 2013 0.1 The investment relates to an equity investment of shares in Victoria Gold Corporation.
At 31 March 2014, the investment in Victoria Gold Corporation was revalued and no gain loss 2013: loss of US$0.2 million was recognised in equity.
Company debtors 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 6,626.3 5,680.0 Prepayments and accrued income 4.4 7.8 Other taxes 0.2 0.3 Total 6,630.9 5,688.1 Debtors due within one year 1,225.7 788.8 Debtors due after one year 5,405.2 4,899.3 Total 6,630.9 5,688.1 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings At 31 March 2014, the Company had loans due from VRHL of US$1,214.6 million 2013: US$1,501.9 million which represented the funds being loaned to other Group companies for funding the subsidiaries.
Out of the total loan, US$579.3 million bears interest at US$ six months LIBOR plus 350 basis points, US$500 million at 5.8%, US$31.2 million at 5.9%, US$42.0 million at 9.7%, and US$62.2 million at US$Libor plus 367 basis points.
During the year the Company entered into a Deed of Assignment with Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited VRJL-II, wherein the Company assigned all the rights to the VRJL-II: US$1,625 million facility agreement dated 28 November 2011 between the Company as Lender and TMHL as borrower US$750 million facility agreement dated 7 July 2011 between the Company as Lender and TMHL as borrower US$750 million facility agreement dated 7 July 2011 between the Company as Lender and TMHL as borrower US$100 million facility agreement dated 7 July 2011 between the Company as Lender and TMHL as borrower were assigned to the VRJ2 At 31 March 2014, the Company had loan of US$4,732.6 million from Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited.
Out of the total loan US$119.2 million bears interest at US$Libor plus 352 basis points, US$1,578.5 million at 7.45%, US$1,200 million at 6.50%, US$284.8 million at 7.18%, US$50 million at 3.15%, US$750 million at 7.25% and US$750 million at 8.75%.
In addition to the loans, the Company was owed US$634.7 million of accrued interest from VRHL and Vedanta Resources Jersey II Limited 2013: US$523.6 million.
Company current asset investments 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Bank term deposits 14.8 89.5 Total 14.8 89.5 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 195 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 54.
Company creditors: amounts falling due within one year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Accruals 98.5 68.9 External borrowings 89.7 499.3 Loan from subsidiary 1,249.5 1,060.0 Derivative liability 4.5 Total 1,437.7 1,632.7 The external borrowings as at 31 March 2014 represent a loan from ICICI of US$180 million, of which US$90 million is repayable in December 2014.
Loans from subsidiaries include a loan of US$1,192.8 million from VRJL relating to its issue of US$1,250 million convertible bonds bond issued in July 2009.
VRJL believes that bondholders will exercise the above put option in July 2014 and accordingly the above loan has been classified from amounts falling due after one year to amounts falling due within one year.
During 2014, interest was charged at the effective interest rate of 17.32%.
Company creditors: amounts falling due after one year 31 March 31 March US$ million 2014 2013 Loan from subsidiary 339.8 1,069.8 External borrowings 5,483.6 3,481.4 Total 5,823.4 4,551.2 Loan from subsidiaries include a loan of US$59.8 million due to Richter Holdings Limited, US$280.0 million due to Vedanta Finance UK Limited.
In December 2010, the Company obtained a loan from ICICI Bank for US$180.0 million repayable US$90.0 million in December 2014 and the balance US$90.0 million in December 2015 and bears an interest rate of three month GBP LIBOR plus 385 basis points.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$1,650.0 million.
In December 2012, the Company obtained a syndicated loan with the State Bank of India as an agent for US$595.0 million repayable in four equal instalments in February 2017, August 2017, July 2018 and January 2019.
In March 2013, the Company entered into a three year facility agreement with the Deutsche Bank as an agent for borrowing up to US$185.0 million.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$185.0 million.
In April 2013, the Company entered into a Standby Letter of Credit agreement arranged by the Axis Bank for an amount of US$150 million at a commission of 1% per annum payable quarterly.
The facility is repayable is two equal annual instalments starting April 2017.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$148.5 million.
In June 2013, the Company issued US$1,200 million, 6.00% bonds due January 2019, and US$500 million, 7.125% bonds due May 2023.
As at 31 March 2014, the outstanding amount under this facility is US$100 million.
Of the US$1,250 million non-convertible bond issued during 2008, US$500 million has been repaid in January 2014 and the remaining US$750 million is due for repayment in July 2018.
196 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 56.
Company reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds Share-based Share Share payment Convertible Treasury Retained Other capital premium reserve bond reserve shares earnings reserves Total Equity shareholders funds at 1 April 2013 29.8 196.8 29.0 302.9 490.6 770.0 2.2 835.7 Loss for the year 128.3 128.3 Dividends paid 162.5 162.5 Exercise of LTIP awards 0.0 15.0 15.0 Recognition of share-based payments 32.9 32.9 Exercise of conversion of bonds 0.0 1.7 0.5 1.2 Convertible bond reserve transfer 110.7 110.7 Repayment of convertible bond 111.6 3.9 115.5 Equity shareholders funds at 31 March 2014 29.8 198.5 46.9 80.1 490.6 601.0 2.2 463.5 57.
The Company has guaranteed US$1,250 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL 2013: US$: 1,250 million, of the above US$1.7 million has been converted during the year.
See Note 27 to the financial statements for further details on the convertible bonds.
The Company has given a corporate guarantee to Jharsuguda Aluminium, for an amount of US$3,506.5 million up to 31 March 2014. c. The Company has given a corporate guarantee to Konkola Copper Mines for an amount of US$185 million up to 31 March 2014. d. The Company has guaranteed US$883 million convertible bonds issued by VRJL-II 2013: US$883 million.
During the year US$809.8 million was repaid to the bondholders on exercise of put option.
e. The Company has guaranteed US$170 million for a loan facility entered by Valliant Jersey Limited with ICICI bank and US$180 million for a loan facility entered by Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited with ICICI bank.
f. The Company has guaranteed US$500 million for a syndicated facility agreement entered by Welter Trading Limited with Standard Chartered Bank as facility agent.
g. The Company has provided a guarantee for the Cairn India Groups obligation under the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Company share-based payment The Company had certain LTIP awards outstanding as at 31 March 2014.
See Note 31 to the financial statements for further details on these share-based payments.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 197
