Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 93 Appendix Summaries of the Victrex plc 2015 Executive Share Option Plan, the Victrex plc 2015 UK Sharesave Plan and the Victrex plc 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan Summaries of the principal terms of the Victrex plc 2015 Executive Share Option Plan the Option Plan, the Victrex plc 2015 UK Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan and, together with the Option Plan, the UK Plans and the Victrex plc 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan the ESPP and together with the UK Plans, the Plans, are set out below.
Certain provisions which apply to both theUK Plans and all the Plans are summarised at the end of the specific summaries below.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Option Plan atthe discretion of the Board.
Form of awards Awards under the Option Plan will be granted in the form of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares with an exercise price per Share equal to the market value of a Share shortly before the option is granted.
The Option Plan includes an appendix under which it is proposed that options which satisfy the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 Qualifying Options can be granted.
Qualifying Options offer beneficial tax treatment to the participant and the member Group Member of the Companys group Group employing the participant.
Performance conditions Unless the Board determines otherwise, options will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition which will determine the proportion if any of the option which will vest following the end of a performance period.
Unless the Board determines otherwise, the performance period will be at least three years long.
The Board may amend a performance condition if an event has occurred which causes the Board reasonably to consider that the performance condition would not, without the amendment, achieve its original purpose and the amended performance condition would not be materially less difficult to satisfy then the unamended performance condition but for the event in question.
Individual limits Options will not be granted to a participant under the Option Plan over shares with a market value as determined by the Board in excess of100% of his salary in respect of any financial year of the Company.
In addition, employees may not be granted Qualifying Options inexcess of the limit set by HMRC from time to time currently 30,000.
Grant of options Options may only be granted within the six week period following approval of the Option Plan by shareholders, the announcement of the Companys results for any period, or, in relation to any person, the day on which that person first joins the Group or on any day on which the Board determines that exceptional circumstances exist.
However, if the Company is restricted from granting options during any such period, options may be granted in the period of six weeks following the relevant restriction being lifted.
Reduction for malus The Board may, in its absolute discretion, determine at any time prior to the delivery of Shares or cash under an option other than aQualifying Option to: a reduce the number of Shares or cash to which an option relates: b cancel an option: or c impose further conditions on an option, in the following circumstances or in circumstances which the Board considers to be similar in their nature or effect.
These circumstances are: a a material failure of risk management by a Group Member or a relevant business unit: b serious reputational damage to a Group Member or a relevant business unit: c a material misstatement of a Group Members audited financial results: d a n error in assessing a performance condition applicable to an option or the information or assumptions on which the option was granted or vests: or e the individuals misconduct.
In the circumstances referred to in c, d or e above or circumstances the Board considers to be similar in their nature or effect the Board may also prior to the later of i the second anniversary of the vesting of an option and ii the publication of the Companys second set of annual results following that vesting require the participant to make a cash repayment in respect of some or all of the shares or cash he received or return some or all of the shares under the option which is not a Qualifying Option.
These provisions will, however, not apply following a change of control of the Company which is not an internal reorganisation.
com 94 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Appendix continued The option plan continued 7.
Vesting and exercise Options that are subject to a performance condition will normally vest following the end of the relevant performance period oriflater on the third anniversary of the grant date and then only to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
Where options are granted without a performance condition, they will usually vest on the third anniversary of the grant date or on such other date as the Board determines.
Options will then normally be exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant date or such earlier date as the Board may determine prior to grant.
At any time before or after the point at which an option other than a Qualifying Option has been exercised, the Board may decide: a t o transfer a number of Shares to the participant which are equal in value to the difference between the aggregate value oftheShares over which the option is exercised and the aggregate exercise price of the option that would have been payable for those Shares: or b t o pay a participant a cash amount which is equal in value to the difference between the aggregate value of the Shares over which the option is exercised and the aggregate exercise price that would have been payable for those Shares.
Cessation of employment If a participant dies, any unvested option he holds will vest as soon as reasonably practicable after the participants death to the extent that the Board determines, taking into account the extent to which any performance condition has been satisfied and, unless the Board determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from the date the option was granted to the date of death.
Options to the extent vested will normally be exercisable for 12 months from the date of death.
If a participant ceases to be an officer or employee of a Group Member by reason of ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale of the entity that employs him out of the Group or for any other reason at the Boards discretion except where a participant is summarily dismissed, any unvested options he holds will vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date on which the participant ceases to hold office or employment with the Group.
The Board will decide the extent to which an unvested option vests in these circumstances, taking into account the extent to which any performance condition is satisfied and, unless the Board determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from the date the option was granted to the date on which the participant ceases to be an officer or employee of a Group Member.
Options to the extent vested will normally be exercisable for six months from the date of cessation or such longer period as the Board may determine.
If a participant ceases to be an officer or employee with the Group in any other circumstances, any option he holds will lapse on the date on which he ceases to be an officer or employee of a Group Member.
Corporate events In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Board will determine the extent to which options will vest taking into account the extent to which any performance condition has been satisfied, and, unless the Board determines otherwise, the period of time which has elapsed from the date the option was granted to the relevant event.
Options to the extent vested are then normally exercisable for a period of up to six months following vesting.
Alternatively, the Board may permit or, in the case of aninternal reorganisation or except in the case of Qualifying Options where the Board considers it appropriate, require options tobeexchanged for equivalent options which relate to shares in another company.
If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Company, or a demerger, delisting or other event which, in the opinion of the Board may affect the current or future value of Shares, the Board may determine that options will vest taking into account the satisfaction of any relevant performance condition and, unless the Board determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from the date on which the option has granted to the date of the relevant event.
The Board will determine in these circumstances the length of time during which options can then be exercised.
General The Sharesave Plan will give participating employees the opportunity to save up to 500 per month or such other amount permitted under the relevant legislation from time to time in accordance with a HMRC-approved savings contract for three or fiveyears a Sharesave Contract.
The proceeds of the Sharesave Contract can be used to exercise an option to acquire Shares atan exercise price per Share which may not be less than 80% or such other percentage as may be permitted by the relevant legislation of the market value of a Share on the invitation date or such other date specified by the Board falling between the invitation date and the grant date of the option.
The Sharesave Plan is proposed to satisfy the requirements of Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 suchthat options granted under it will offer beneficial tax treatment to the participant and the Group Member employing theparticipant.
Eligibility All UK tax-resident employees including a full-time executive Director of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries which participates in the Sharesave Plan, who have been in employment for a minimum period determined by the Board not exceeding five years, and any other employees nominated by the Board may apply for an option on any occasion on which invitations are issued.
Exercise of options Ordinarily, an option may be exercised within six months of maturity of the Sharesave Contract.
Options may only be exercised using the proceeds of the Sharesave Contract.
com Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 95 The Sharesave Plan continued 4.
Cessation of employment Options may be exercised for a period of six months following the individuals cessation of employment if a participant leaves employment by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale of the entity that employs him out of the Group or, provided the option has been held for at least three years, any other reason apart from summary dismissal.
If an individual dies, his option may be exercised for a period of 12 months from the maturity date of the Sharesave Contract if he dies within six months after the maturity date or 12 months from his death, if he dies before the maturity date.
If a participant ceases employment with the Group or an associated company of a Group Member in any other circumstances, any option he holds will lapse on the date on which the participant ceases employment.
In all cases, options may only be exercised using monies saved under the Sharesave Contract at the date of exercise.
Corporate events Options may be exercised early in the event of a change of control or voluntary winding-up of the Company to the extent they areexercisable using monies saved under the Sharesave Contract at the date of exercise.
Alternatively, options may be exchanged withtheagreement of the acquiring company and the participant for equivalent options in the new holding company.
THE ESPP The ESPP is an all-employee stock purchase plan designed to qualify under section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 asamended the Code giving employees based in the US and the Group Member that employs them tax and social security benefitsonany gains made under the ESPP.
Eligibility Any employee of any subsidiary of the Company nominated by the Board who works more than 20 hours a week at least 5 months a year and who has been employed for not less than 90 days is eligible to participate in the ESPP.
Offering periods Under the ESPP participants make contributions to a savings account over a period not exceeding 27 months normally a year, unless the Board determines otherwise.
The total contributions a participant can make under the ESPP are limited to $875 per month or such other amount as the Board may determine.
In any event, no rights to acquire Shares may be granted to an individual in a given calendar year over Shares worth in excess of $25,000 at the time of grant.
An individuals participation will also be restricted if it would mean he would hold or be entitled to acquire 5% of the capital of the Company or any subsidiary.
The maximum number of Shares that an individual may acquire inrespect of each offering period is 5,000.
An employee may decide to withdraw from participating in the ESPP during an offering period.
Plan limit The maximum number of Shares which may be used in connection with the ESPP will be 1,000,000.
Acquisition price The exact number of Shares to be acquired can be determined either at the start of the offering period based on the projected savings proceeds or at the end of the specified offering period based on the total contributions that an employee has made over that period.
Ineither case, at the end of the offering period, Shares can be purchased using the savings that had been made.
The price payable for each Share will be determined by the Board, provided that it is not less than the lower of 85% of the fair market value of a Share at the start and end of the relevant offering period.
Acquisition of shares Provided that the individual is still an employee of the Group who satisfies the eligibility conditions referred to above at the end of the relevant offering period, he can generally acquire Shares at that time.
If an individual ceases to be an eligible employee at least 30 days before the proposed purchase date, he will be automatically withdrawn from the ESPP and his savings contributions will be returned to him.
If cessation ofemployment occurs within 30 days of the proposed purchase date, the individuals contributions will be used to acquire Shares in the normal way.
An early acquisition of Shares is permitted in the event of a corporate transaction within the meaning of the Code affecting the Company, if the acquiring company does not exchange the existing rights to acquire Shares for equivalent new rights in the new holding company.
Unless the Board determines otherwise, in the event the Company is wound up, any offering period then running would end and Shares may be purchased at that time.
Adjustment of awards If the Company pays a dividend or other distribution or if there is a merger, variation in the Companys share capital or other transaction involving any securities in the Company or any other change in the Companys structure then the Board may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number or class of Shares that may be acquired, the acquisition price, and the maximum number of Shares thatmay be acquired in connection with the ESPP.
com 96 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Appendix continued Provisions which are common to the UK Plans 1.
Overall limits The UK Plans are subject to the following overall limit.
In any 10 year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the relevant plan and under any other employee share plan adopted by the Company may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital ofthe Company from time to time.
The Option Plan is subject to the additional following limit.
In any 10 year period, the number of Shares which may be issued under the relevant plan and under any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company including the ESPP may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Treasury Shares will be treated as newly issued for the purpose of these limits until such time as guidelines published by institutional investor representative bodies determine otherwise.
Termination The UK Plans will usually terminate on the tenth anniversary of their approval by shareholders but the existing rights of participants will not be affected by any such termination.
Adjustments In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital and in the case of options granted under the Option Plan which are not Qualifying Options a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event, which may, in the Boards opinion, affect the current or future value of Shares, the number of Shares subject to an option and or any performance condition attached to options granted under the Option Plan and or the exercise price applying to an option may be adjusted, provided that any adjustment to a Qualifying Option or anoption under the Sharesave Plan may only be made in accordance with the requirements of the applicable tax legislation.
Provisions which are common to the plans 1.
Terms of awards and options Awards and options may be granted over newly issued Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
Awards and options are not transferable other than on death.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award or option.
Awards and options will not form part of pensionable earnings.
Operation The operation of the Plans will be supervised by the Board or a duly authorised committee appointed by the Board.
Amendment The Board may amend the Plans at any time, provided that prior approval of the Companys shareholders will be required for amendments to the advantage of eligible employees or participants relating to eligibility, limits, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash comprised in an option or award and the impact of any variation of capital.
However, any minor amendment to benefit the administration of the Plans, to take account of legislative changes, or to obtain or maintain favourable tax treatment, exchange control or regulatory treatment may be made by the Board without shareholder approval.
Rights attaching to shares Options will not confer any shareholder rights until the options have been exercised and the participants have received their Shares.
Any Shares allotted when an option is exercised under the Plans will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
