Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 91 Explanatory notes Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors of a public company to lay its annual report before the company in general meeting, givingshareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the Audited Financial Statements, theAuditors Report, the Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
In accordance with the 2012UKCorporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an Ordinary Resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 44 to 56 of the Annual Report and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 45 to 49 and which is included in the Directors Remuneration Report this year for information purposes only.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional onits being passed.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 33.76p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Inaccordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Ifapproved, the dividend will be paid on 20 February 2015 to shareholders on the register at 6.00pm on 6 February 2015.
Resolution 4 Declaration of a special dividend A special dividend of 50.0p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on20February 2015 to shareholders on the register at 6.00pm on 6 February 2015.
Resolutions 5 to 11 Re-election and election of Directors In accordance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors shall retire from office at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 11 shall be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
The Board considers each non-executive Director to be independent and the Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on page 39, each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
The biographical details, skills, and experience of each Director standing for re-election are set out below and on pages 32 and 33 of the Annual Report.
Mr Larry Pentz, Chairman Mr Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in 2008 and as Chairman in October 2014.
Larry brings extensive and wide ranging experience in developing strategy for and successfully leading international growth businesses in the chemical sector.
He has been instrumental in the acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst and chemical companies for Johnson Matthey plc, a UK listed FTSE 100 company, where he currently holds board level responsibility for the Process Technologies and Fine Chemical Divisions.
Larry brings a wealth of directly relevant skills and experience toVictrex, including detailed knowledge of the chemicals industry, boardroom experience and leadership skills in a major UK listed chemical peer.
Dr Pamela Kirby, Senior Independent Director Dr Pamela Kirby brings over 30 years of wide ranging experience in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and has specific insight and experience in growing and developing medical and pharma based businesses.
She was appointed to the Victrex Board in 2011 and as Senior Independent Director in November 2014.
In addition to detailed knowledge of the international healthcare sector, Pamela has in-depth experience of strategic planning and marketing and extensive boardroom experience.
She was previously non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
She is currently Chairman of Scynexis Inc listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange, non-executive director of DCC plc and non-executive director of Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc.
Mr Giles Kerr, Non-executive Director Mr Giles Kerr was appointed to the Board in 2006 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He brings a wealth of relevant finance, business and accounting experience at a time when Victrex is at the higher end of listed FTSE 250 companies with strong growth aspirations.
Giles isa qualified Chartered Accountant, was formerly a partner with Arthur Andersen & Co and was Group Finance Director of Amersham Plc.
He is currently Director of Finance of Oxford University and non-executive director of BTG plc and Senior plc.
Mr Patrick fide Smedt, Non-executive Director Mr Patrick fide Smedt is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was appointed to the Board in 2008.
His breadth of international experience and knowledge of market and geographical development is a key strength which he brings to the Board of Victrex, which has exposure to over 40 geographies.
He has over 23 years of experience with Microsoft, culminating in his appointment as Chairman of Microsoft Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Patrick has extensive boardroom experience being the Senior Independent Director of Morgan Sindall Group plc and Anite plc.
He is also a non-executive director at NextInto GmbH and Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
Mr David Hummel, Chief Executive Officer Mr David Hummel has led Victrex as Chief Executive Officer since the MBO of Victrex from ICI in 1993.
He has extensive experience of the high performance polymers market, having worked for GE Plastics and Diamond Shamrock, and led the US sales operation for ICI Advanced Materials prior to Victrexs formation in 1993.
David has strong experience of strategy and market development, having led Victrex on its journey from a small niche polymers company to its position today as a focused world leader in high performance polymer solutions across five core markets.
Mr Tim Cooper, Executive Director Mr Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in October 2012 and is the Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions, a position he has held since joining Victrex in 2010.
Tim has over 30 years of international business management, commercial and manufacturing experience.
His prior experience includes leadership positions such as Group Managing Director of Umeco Composites Process Materials, Managing Director of Tellermate plc and of the Avery Berkel group.
Previously Tim held a number of sales and marketing positions at BP and Land Rover.
com 92 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Explanatory notes continued Resolutions 5 to 11 Re-election and election of Directors continued Ms Louisa Burdett, Group Finance Director Ms Louisa Burdett was appointed to the Board in 2014 as Group Finance Director.
Louisa, who is a qualified Chartered Accountant, brings awealth of financial experience from her career to date and also has significant pharmaceutical experience, relevant for Victrexs medical business Invibio, including in emerging geographies.
She was formerly Chief Financial Officer at Optos plc and The Financial Times Group.
She has also held roles at Chep Europe, a division of Brambles Ltd, the Australian listed pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisa also has in-depth corporate finance experience, having worked as an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank.
Resolutions 12 and 13 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report is laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
It is, therefore, proposed that KPMG LLP be re-appointed auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before theCompany.
Resolution 13 is an Ordinary Resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine KPMGsremuneration.
Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this Ordinary Resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of next years AGM of the Company or 31 March 2016, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by the Investment Management Association, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares up to an amount of less than one third of the existing share capital as at 5 December 2014, plus, in the case ofarights issue only, a further amount up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 5 December 2014.
Resolutions 15 to 17 Renewal of employee share schemes Three of the Companys existing share schemes will soon expire following the ten year anniversary of their approval by shareholders.
It is proposed that these schemes be renewed and that replacement schemes be approved by shareholders.
Executive Directors will participate only in the Victrex plc 2015 UK Sharesave Plan and not in either the Victrex plc 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or the Victrex plc 2015 Executive Share Option Plan.
The main terms of each scheme are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice.
Resolution 18 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
Otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, this special resolution will enable the Directors toallot shares for cash up to a nominal amount of 42,598, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 5December 2014, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the Company or 31 March 2016, if sooner.
Resolution 19 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 20 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 5 December 2014 and themaximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 5 December 2014, options over a total of 1,206,233 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.42% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 5 December 2014.
It would represent 1.57% of the issued Ordinary Share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full that date.
Resolution 20 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual AGMs on 14 clear days notice This special resolution renews an authority given at last years AGM and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006 Act.
TheCompany is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
