Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 87 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty second Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11am on 4February 2015, at the Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN, to transact the business set out below.
Resolution 1 to 17 willbe proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 18 to 20 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
To receive the audited financial statements and the auditors and Directors reports for the year ended 30 September 2014.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 30 September 2014.
To declare a final dividend of 33.76p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2014.
To declare a special dividend of 50.0p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr P J Kirby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr G F B Kerr as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr P J M fide Smedt as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D R Hummel as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr T J Cooper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms L S Burdett as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
T hat the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 283,992: and b up to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 283,992 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, a nd so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Su ch authorities to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2016 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
T hat the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 Executive Share Option Plan in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification the Option Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting be and are hereby approved and the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to: a a dopt the Option Plan and do all acts and things which they may, in their absolute discretion, consider necessary or expedient to give effect to the Option Plan: and b adopt further plans based on the Option Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against any limits on individual or overall participation in the Option Plan.
T hat the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 UK Sharesave Plan in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification the Sharesave Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting, be and are hereby approved and the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to: a a dopt the Sharesave Plan and do all acts and things which they may, in their absolute discretion, consider necessary or expedient to give effect to the Sharesave Plan: and b adopt further plans based on the Sharesave Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against any limits on individual or overall participation in the Sharesave Plan.
com 88 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 17.
T hat the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification the ESPP, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting, be and are hereby approved and the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to: a a dopt the ESPP and do all acts and things which they may, in their absolute discretion, consider necessary or expedient to give effect to the ESPP: and b adopt further plans based on the ESPP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against any limits on individual or overall participation in the ESPP.
T hat, conditional upon resolution 14 in this notice of general meeting being passed, the Board be and hereby is given power to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the 2006 Act for cash under the authority given by that resolution or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to such allotment, such power to be limited: a t o the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but, in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of resolution 14, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 42,598.
Su ch power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2016 but during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
T hat the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 701 of the 2006 Act to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum aggregate number of 8,519,758 Ordinary Shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of: i a n amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii t he higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange atthe time the purchase is carried out: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Su ch power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2016 but so that the Company may enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not ended.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board S Koncarevic Company Secretary 8 December 2014 www.
com Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 89 Notes 1.
S hareholders who are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on 2 February 2015 or, in the event of any adjournment 6pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
A h ard copy form of proxy Form of Proxy which may be used to appoint a proxy and give instructions accompanies this Annual Report.
To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6GT, so as to be received by no later than 11am on 2 February 2015.
Alternatively, shareholders may appoint a proxy online by following the instructions in note 4 below.
Shareholders who hold their shares in uncertificated form may also use the CREST voting service to appoint a proxy electronically as explained in notes 5 to 7 below.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy, electronic proxy appointment instruction or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
S hareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website at www.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, members who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging onto their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the Vote Online link.
The on-screen instructions give details of how to complete the proxy appointment process.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 11am on 2 February 2015.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on 2 February 2015.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A ny person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights aNominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as totheexercise of voting rights.
T he statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Such rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
As at 5 December 2014 being the last business day prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 85,197,589 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 5 December 2014 were 85,197,589.
There were no shares in treasury as at that date.
com 90 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes continued 10.
U nder section 527 of the 2006 Act shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require theCompany to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a t he audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
T he Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, itmust forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 ofthe2006 Act to publish on a website.
A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting.
In accordance with section 319A of the 2006 Act and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause any such questions to be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at www.
U nder section 338 and section 338A of the 2006 Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a t o give, to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Su ch a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 24 December 2014, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
R epresentatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
Y ou may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form tocommunicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
C opies of the following documents will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this Notice of AGM until the close of the AGM and at the meeting location from at least 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: the executive Directors service contracts: the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 Executive Share Option Plan: the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 UK Sharesave Plan: and the rules of the Victrex plc 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
T he rules of each of the Executive Share Option Plan, UK Sharesave Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan will additionally be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays at the office of Deloitte LLP Company Secretarial Department, 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ from the date of this Notice of AGM until the close of the AGM.
