Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 59 Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and  applicable law and regulations.
Directors responsibilities for the The Directors are responsible for keeping preparation of the Annual Report adequate accounting records that are Directors responsibilities statement Company law requires the Directors to sufficient to show and explain the Parent in respect oftheAnnualReport prepare Group and Parent Company financial Companys transactions and disclose with We confirm that to the best of statements for each financial year.
Under that reasonable accuracy at any time the financial ourknowledge: law they are required to prepare the Group position of the Parent Company and enable the financial statements, prepared financial statements in accordance with them to ensure that its financial statements in accordance with the applicable International Financial Reporting Standards comply with the Companies Act 2006. set of accounting standards, give IFRS as adopted by the European Union Theyhave general responsibility for taking atrue and fair view of the assets, EU and applicable law and have elected such steps as are reasonably open to them liabilities, financial position and toprepare the Parent Company financial to safeguard the assets of the Group profit or loss of the Company and statements on the same basis.
andtoprevent and detect fraud and the undertakings included in the otherirregularities.
Under company law the Directors must not consolidation taken as a whole: and approve the financial statements unless they Under applicable law and regulations the management report, which are satisfied that they give a true and fair theDirectors are also responsible for comprises the Directors Report and view of the state of affairs of the Group and preparing aStrategic Report, Directors the Strategic Report, includes a fair Parent Company and of their profit or loss Report, Directors Remuneration Report review of the development and for that period.
and Corporate Governance statement performance of the business and thatcomply with that law and those In preparing each of the Group and Parent position of the issuer and the regulations.
The Directors are responsible Company financial statements, the Directors undertakings included in the for the maintenance and integrity of the are required to: consolidation as a whole, together corporate and financial information included with a description of the principal risks select suitable accounting policies and on the Companys website.
Legislation and the uncertainties that they face.
apply them consistently: intheUK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may The Directors of Victrex plc are make judgements and estimates that are differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
detailed on pages 32 and 33. reasonable and prudent: The Board considers that the Annual Report state whether they have been prepared in and financial statements, taken as a whole, are By order of the Board accordance with IFRS as adopted by the fair, balanced and understandable and provide EU: and the information necessary for shareholders prepare the financial statements on to assess the Groups performance, business thegoing concern basis unless it is model and strategy.
Louisa Burdett inappropriate to presume that the Group Finance Director Groupand Parent Company will 8 December 2014 continuein business.
