Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 210 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 211 Definition of terms 2G 2G networks are operated using global system for mobile GSM technology which offer services such as voice, text messaging and low speed data.
In addition, all the Groups controlled networks support general packet radio services GPRS, often referred to as 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile devices to access IP based data services such as the internet and email.
3G A cellular technology based on wide band CDMA delivering voice and faster data services.
4G LTE 4G or long-term evolution LTE technology offers even faster data transfer speeds than 3G HSPA.
Acquisition costs The total of connection fees, trade commissions and equipment costs relating to new customer connections.
ADR American depositary receipts is a mechanism designed to facilitate trading in shares of non-US companies inthe US stock markets.
The main purpose is to create an instrument which can easily be settled through USstock market clearing systems.
ADS American depositary shares are shares evidenced by American depositary receipts.
ADSs are issued by a depositary bank and represent one or more shares of a non-US issuer held by the depositary bank.
The main purpose of ADSs is to facilitate trading in shares of non-US companies in the US markets and, accordingly, ADRs which evidence ADSs are in a form suitable for holding in US clearing systems.
AMAP The Groups region: Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Applications apps Apps are software applications usually designed to run on a smartphone or tablet device and provide a convenient means for the user to perform certain tasks.
They cover a wide range of activities including banking, ticket purchasing, travel arrangements, social networking and games.
For example, the MyVodafoneapp lets customers check their bill totals on their smartphone and see the minutes, texts and data allowance remaining.
ARPU Average revenue per user, defined as mobile in-bundle customer revenue plus mobile out-of-bundle customer revenue and mobile incoming revenue divided by average customers.
Capital expenditure capex This measure includes the aggregate of capitalised property, plant and equipment additions and capitalised software costs.
CDMA This is a channel access method used by various radio communication technologies.
Churn Total gross customer disconnections in the period divided by the average total customers in the period.
Cloud services This means the customer has little or no equipment at their premises and all the equipment and capability associated with the service is run from the Vodafone network and data centres instead.
This removes the need for customers to make capital investments and instead they have an operating cost model with a recurring monthly fee.
Controlled and jointly controlled Controlled and jointly controlled measures include 100% for the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups share for joint ventures.
and the Groups proportionate share for joint operations.
Customer costs Customer costs include acquisition costs and retention costs.
Depreciation and other The accounting charge that allocates the cost of a tangible or intangible asset to the income statement amortisation over its useful life.
This measure includes the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Direct costs Direct costs include interconnect costs and other direct costs of providing services.
Enterprise The Groups customer segment for businesses.
EBITDA Operating profit excluding share of results in associates, depreciation and amortisation, gains losses on the disposal of fixed assets, impairment losses, restructuring costs and other operating income and expense.
The Groups definition of EBITDA may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
Fixed broadband customer A fixed broadband customer is defined as a customer with a connection or access point to a fixed line datanetwork.
Free cash flow Operating free cash flow after cash flows in relation to taxation, interest, dividends received from associates and investments and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders in subsidiaries but before licence and spectrum payments.
For the year ended31March 2014 and 31 March 2013 other items excluded the income dividends received from Verizon Wireless and payments in respect of a tax case settlement.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority previously Financial Services Authority.
HSPA An evolution of high speed packet access HSPA or third generation 3G technology that enhances the existing 3G network with higher speeds for the end user.
Impairment A downward revaluation of an asset.
Interconnect costs A charge paid by Vodafone to other fixed line or mobile operators when a Vodafone customer calls acustomer connected to a different network.
ICT Information and communications technology.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IP Internet protocol IP is the format in which data is sent from one computer to another on the internet.
IP-VPN A virtual private network VPN is a network that uses a shared telecommunications infrastructure, such as the internet, to provide remote offices or individual users with secure access to their organisations network.
M2M communications, or telemetry, enable devices to communicate with one another via built-in mobile SIM cards.
Mark-to-market Mark-to-market or fair value accounting refers to accounting for the value of an asset or liability based on the current market price of the asset or liability.
Glue area Vodafone Group Plc 212 Annual Report 2014 Definition of terms continued Mobile broadband Also known as mobile internet see below.
Mobile customer A mobile customer is defined as a subscriber identity module SIM, or in territories where SIMs do not exist, aunique mobile telephone number, which has access to the network for any purpose, including data only usage.
Mobile internet Mobile internet allows internet access anytime, anywhere through a browser or a native application using any portable or mobile device such as smartphone, tablet, laptop connected to a wireless network.
Mobile termination rate MTR A per minute charge paid by a telecommunications network operator when a customer makes a call to another mobile or fixed line network operator.
MVNO Mobile virtual network operators, companies that provide mobile phone services under wholesale contracts with a mobile network operator, but do not have their own licence of spectrum or the infrastructure required to operate a network.
Net debt Long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings and mark-to-market adjustments on financing instruments less cash and cash equivalents.
Net promoter score NPS Net promoter score is a customer loyalty metric used to monitor customer satisfaction.
Operating expenses Operating expenses comprise primarily network and IT related expenditure, support costs from HR and finance and certain intercompany items.
Operating free cash flow Cash generated from operations after cash payments for capital expenditure excludes capital licence and spectrum payments and cash receipts from the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Organic growth All amounts marked with an represent organic growth which presents performance on a comparable basis, both in terms of merger and acquisition activity and movements in foreign exchange rates.
From 1 April 2013 the Group revised its intra-group roaming charges.
These changes have had an impact on reported service revenue for the Group and by country and regionally since 1 April 2013.
Whilst prior period reported revenue has not been restated, to ensure comparability in organic growth rates, Group, country and regional revenue in the prior financial periods have been recalculated based on the new pricing structure to form the basis for our organic calculations.
Partner markets Markets in which the Group has entered into a partner agreement with a local mobile operator enabling a range of Vodafones global products and services to be marketed in that operators territory and extending Vodafones reach into such markets.
Penetration Number of SIMs in a country as a percentage of the countrys population.
Penetration can be in excess of 100% due to customers owning more than one SIM.
Petabyte A petabyte is a measure of data usage.
One petabyte is a million gigabytes.
Reported growth Reported growth is based on amounts reported in pound sterling as determined under IFRS.
RAN Radio access network is the part of a mobile telecommunications system which provides cellular coverage to mobile phones via a radio interface, managed by thousands of base stations installed on towers and rooftops across the coverage area, and linked to the core nodes through a backhaul infrastructure which can be owned, leased or a mix of both.
Retention costs The total of trade commissions, loyalty scheme and equipment costs relating to customer retention andupgrade.
Roaming Allows customers to make calls, send and receive texts and data on other operators mobile networks while travelling abroad.
Service revenue Service revenue comprises all revenue related to the provision of ongoing services including, but not limited to, monthly access charges, airtime usage, roaming, incoming and outgoing network usage by non-Vodafone customers and interconnect charges for incoming calls.
Smartphone devices A smartphone is a mobile phone offering advanced capabilities including access to email and the internet.
Smartphone penetration The number of smartphone devices divided by the number of registered SIMs excluding data only SIMs and telemetric applications.
SME Small to medium-sized enterprises.
Spectrum The radio frequency bands and channels assigned for telecommunication services.
Supranational An international organisation, or union, whereby member states go beyond national boundaries or interests to share in the decision-making and vote on issues pertaining to the wider grouping.
Tablets A tablet is a slate shaped, mobile or portable computing device equipped with a finger operated touchscreen or stylus, for example, the Apple iPad.
Telemetrics Telemetric applications include, but are not limited to, asset and equipment tracking, mobile payment and billing functionality, e. g. vending machines and meter readings, andinclude voice enabled customers whose usage is limited to a central service operation, e. g. emergency response applications in vehicles.
Telemetric customers are not included in mobile customers.
VZW Verizon Wireless, the Groups former associate in the United States.
VZW income dividends Distributions other than tax distributions by Verizon Wireless as agreed from time to time by the Board of Verizon Wireless.
VZW tax distributions Specific distributions made by the Verizon Wireless to its partners based on the taxable income.
