Vodafone Group Plc 104 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation This section describes the critical accounting judgements that management has identified as having a potentially material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements and sets out our significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is generally applicable to a specific note to the accounts, the policy is described within that note.
We have also detailed below the new accounting pronouncements that we will adopt in future years and our current view of the impact they will have on our financial reporting.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
A discussion on the Groups critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed below.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Vodafone Group Plc is registered in England and Wales No.
IFRS requires the directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
In determining and applying accounting policies, directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Groups reported financial position, results or cash flows: it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate.
Management has identified accounting estimates and assumptions relating to revenue, taxation, business combinations and goodwill, joint arrangements, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, post employment benefits, provisions and contingent liabilities and impairment that it considers to be critical due to their impact on the Groups financial statements.
These critical accounting judgements, assumptions and related disclosures have been discussed with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee see page 62.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Revenue recognition Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements where more than one good or service is provided to the customer, customer consideration is allocated between the goods and services using relative fair value principles.
The fair values determined for deliverables may impact the timing of the recognition of revenue.
Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a standalone basis after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
Gross versus net presentation When the Group sells goods or services as a principal, income and payments to suppliers are reported on a gross basis in revenue and operating costs.
If the Group sells goods or services as an agent, revenue and payments to suppliers are recorded in revenue on a net basis, representing the margin earned.
Whether the Group is considered to be the principal or an agent in the transaction depends on analysis by management of both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners: such judgements impact the amount of reported revenue and operating expenses but do not impact reported assets, liabilities or cash flows.
Taxation The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain matters where the tax impact is uncertain until a conclusion is reached with the relevant tax authority or through a legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
Resolving tax issues can take many years as it is not always within the control of the Group and often depends on the efficiency of legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient and suitable taxable profits in the relevant legal entity or tax group against which to utilise the assets in the future.
Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits, which are estimated using the latest available profit forecasts.
Prior to recording deferred tax assets for tax losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting estimation and judgement include the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses in Luxembourg, Germany, India, and Turkey, capital allowances in the United Kingdom and the tax liability on the rationalisation and re-organisation of the Group prior to the disposal of our US group, whose principal asset was its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless VZW.
See note 6 Taxation to the consolidated financial statements.
