Vodafone Group Plc 182 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 11 June 2014 Record date for final dividend 13 June 2014 Interim management statement 25 July 2014 Annual general meeting 29 July 2014 Final dividend payment 6 August 2014 Half-year financial results 11 November 2014 1 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 26 November 2014 1 Record date for interim dividend 28 November 2014 1 Interim dividend payment 4 February 2015 Note: 1 Provisional dates.
Dividends Managing your shares via Investor Centre See pages 101 and 124 for details on dividend amount per share.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with Payment of dividends by direct credit online access to information about their investments as well as a facility We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: accounts.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts on the a update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend same day as payment.
A consolidated tax voucher covering both payment history: the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year is sent a update member details and address changes: and to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
a register to receive Company communications electronically.
ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque.
Overseas dividend payments Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing Holders of ordinary shares resident in the Eurozone defined for service to existing shareholders.
this purpose as a country that has adopted the euro as its national The service can be obtained at investorcentre.
Shareholders with currency automatically receive their dividends in euros.
The sterling any queries regarding their holding should contact Computershare.
euro exchange rate is determined by us in accordance with our articles See page 183 for their contact details.
of association up to 13 business days before the payment date.
Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate Holders resident outside the UK and Eurozone automatically receive website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and dividends in pounds sterling but may elect to receive dividends information about the Company.
in localcurrency directly into their bank account by registering for ourRegistrars Computershare Global Payments Service.
co. uk for details and terms and conditions.
A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their Cash dividends to ADS holders will be paid by the ADS depositary communications from us electronically using email and webin USdollars.
The sterling US dollar exchange rate for this purpose based communications.
The use of electronic communications, is determined by us up to ten New York and London business days rather than printed paper documents, means information about beforethe payment date.
the Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the added benefit of reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
com dividends for further information about dividend Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders payments or, alternatively, please contact our Registrar or the ADS registered for electronic communications will be sent an email alert depositary, as applicable.
See page 183 for their contact information.
containing a link to the relevant documents.
Dividend reinvestment plan We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary by providing us with an email address.
You can register your email shares, who choose to participate, to use their cash dividends to acquire address via our registrar at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact them via the additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf telephone number provided on page 183.
com investor by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
for further information about this service.
For ADS holders BNY Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend Annual general meeting reinvestment facility.
Our thirtieth AGM will be held at the Hilton Metropole Hotel, 225Edgware Road, London W2 1JU on Tuesday 29 July 2014 at 11.00a.
m. The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast which can be viewed on our website at vodafone.
com agm on the day of the meeting.
Arecording will be available to view after that date.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 182 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 183 ShareGift Warning to shareholders boiler room scams We support ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases haveonly a very small number of shares, which might be considered purporting to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters.
uneconomic to sell, are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares These callers typically make claims of highly profitable opportunities are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed in UK orUS investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not on to awide range of UK charities.
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
org or call 44 0 20 7930 3737 for further details.
Investors are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy shares.
If it sounds too good to be true, it often is.
Landmark Asset Search See the FCA website fca.
uk consumers scams for more detailed We participate in an online service which provides asearch information about this or similar activity.
facility for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and easily trace UK shareholdings relating to deceased estates.
co. uk or call 44 0 844 844 9967 for further information.
Registrar and transfer office The Registrar Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Ltd The Pavilions PO Box 9742 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England Dublin 18, Ireland Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Telephone: 353 0 818 300 999 investorcentre.
co. uk contactus ADS depositary BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the United States, 1 201 680 6837 not toll free and enter company number 2160 Email: shrrelations@.
com London Stock Exchange, and ii the reported high and low sales Share price history pricesofADSs on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE NASDAQ.
On flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988 the ordinary TheCompany transferred its ADS listing from the NYSE to NASDAQ shareswere valued at 170 pence each.
When the Company was on 29October 2009. finally demerged on 16 September 1991 the base cost of Racal London Stock Electronics Plc shares for UK taxpayers was apportioned between Exchange the Company andRacal Electronics Plc for capital gains tax purposes Pounds per NYSE NASDAQ ordinary share Dollars per ADS in the ratio of80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices Year ended 31 March High Low High Low on 16September 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 2010 1.54 1.11 24.04 17.68 223pence for each Racal share.
2011 1.85 1.27 32.70 18.21 On 21 July 1994 the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares 2012 1.84 1.54 29.46 24.31 for every one then held and on 30 September 1999 it effected a bonus 2013 1.92 1.54 30.07 24.42 issue of four new shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation 2014 2.52 1.80 41.57 27.74 and demerger share prices therefore may be restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence respectively.
London Stock On 31 July 2006 the Group returned approximately 9 billion Exchange Pounds per NYSE NASDAQ to shareholders in the form of a B share arrangement.
As part ordinary share Dollars per ADS of thisarrangement, and in order to facilitate historical share price Quarter High Low High Low comparisons, the Groups share capital was consolidated on the basis 2012 2013 ofseven new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares held First quarter 1.82 1.64 28.39 26.00 at thisdate.
Second quarter 1.92 1.73 30.07 27.47 On 21 February 2014 the Group disposed of its interest in Verizon Third quarter 1.82 1.54 29.46 24.95 Wireless VZW to Verizon Communications Inc. As part of this Fourth quarter 1.90 1.56 28.73 24.42 transaction the Group returned US$85 billion to shareholders in cash 2013 2014 and Verizon shares.
On 24 February 2014 the Groups share capital was First quarter 1.99 1.80 30.80 27.81 consolidated on the basis of six new ordinary shares for every eleven Second quarter 2.24 1.92 35.79 29.15 existing ordinary shares.
1 First quarter 2.27 2.11 38.26 35.37 The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported Note: high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the 1 Covering period up to 19 May 2014.
Vodafone Group Plc 184 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information continued by BNY Mellon, as depositary, under a deposit agreement, dated London Stock Exchange as of 12October 1988, as amended and restated on 26 December Pounds per NASDAQ 1989, 16September 1991, 30 June 1999 and 31 July 2006 between ordinary share Dollars per ADS Month High Low High Low theCompany, the depositary and the holders from time to time November 2013 2.40 2.32 38.06 36.91 of ADRsissued thereunder.
December 2013 2.43 2.30 39.99 37.39 ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct BNY January 2014 2.46 2.28 39.90 37.44 Mellon on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary February 2014 2.52 2.21 41.57 36.01 shares represented by their ADSs.
See Articles of association and March 2014 2.49 2.18 41.50 36.05 applicable English law Rights attaching to the Companys shares April 2014 2.24 2.11 37.96 35.37 Voting rights on page 185.
Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares 11,000 444,094 0.31 Inflation and foreign currency translation 1,0015,000 52,522 0.39 5,00150,000 14,687 0.60 Inflation 50,001100,000 513 0.12 Inflation has not had a significant effect on the Groups results 100,001500,000 721 0.58 of operations and financial condition during the three years ended 31March 2014.
More than 500,000 1,135 98.00 513,672 100.00 Foreign currency translation The following table sets out the pound sterling exchange rates of the other principal currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, Major shareholders the currency of the European Union EU member states which have BNY Mellon, as custodian of our ADR programme, held approximately 20 adopted the euro as their currency, and US dollars, US$, cents 17.95% of our ordinary shares of 20 21 US centseach at 19May or, the currency of the US.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 19May 31 March % 2014 was517,135,941.
At this date 1,473 holders of record of ordinary Currency 1 2014 2013 Change shares had registered addresses in the United States and in total held Average: approximately 0.007% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
Euro 1.19 1.23 3.3 At 31 March 2014 the following percentage interests in the ordinary US dollar 1.59 1.58 0.6 share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and At 31 March: Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the directors.
Euro 1.21 1.19 1.7 No changes in the interests disclosed to the Company have been US dollar 1.67 1.52 9.9 notified between 31 March 2014 and 19May 2014.
Shareholder Shareholding The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, Black Rock, Inc. 6.90% the period end, average, high and low exchanges rates for pound sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by this Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low shareholder are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the 2010 1.52 1.60 1.70 1.44 ordinary shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, at 19 May 2011 1.61 1.56 1.64 1.43 2014, of any other interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital 2012 1.60 1.60 1.67 1.53 of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned 2013 1.52 1.58 1.63 1.49 or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result 2014 1.67 1.59 1.67 1.49 in a change of control of the Company.
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low exchange rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
Articles of association and applicable English law Month High Low The following description summarises certain provisions November 2013 1.64 1.59 of the Companys articles of association and applicable English December 2013 1.66 1.63 law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the January 2014 1.66 1.63 Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys articles of association.
See Documents on display on page187 for information February 2014 1.67 1.63 on where copies of the articles of association can be obtained.
March 2014 1.67 1.65 April 2014 1.69 1.66 The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the Markets name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration number 1833679.
Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London StockExchange and in the form of ADSs on NASDAQ.
We had All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, a total market capitalisation of approximately 57 billion at 19May no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from 2014 making us the sixth largest listing in The Financial Times Stock the holders of such shares.
Exchange 100 index and the 76th largest company in the world based English law specifies that any alteration to the articles of association on market capitalisation at that date.
must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 184 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 185 Articles of association In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report By a special resolution passed at the 2010 AGM the Company removed Regulations, the Board has, since 2003, prepared a report its object clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum to shareholders on the directors remuneration which complies of association which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated with theregulations see pages 69 to 85.
The report is also subject as forming part of the Companys articles of association.
the Companys articles of association do not specifically restrict the Rights attaching to the Companys shares objects of the Company.
At 31 March 2014 the issued share capital of the Company was Directors comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of directors, each, 26,439,960,221 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares 20 consisting of not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the 21US cents each and 33,737,176,433 deferred shares of 20 business and affairs of the Company.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company Dividend rights subject to any restrictions in the articles of association, the Companies Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid Act as defined in the articles of association and any special resolution.
inrespect of each financial year, or other accounting period of the Company, a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum Under the Companys articles of association a director cannot on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative vote in respect of any proposal in which the director, or any person preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable connected with the director, has a material interest other than by virtue profits which the directors have resolved should be distributed.
The fixed of the directors interest in the Companys shares or other securities.
rate shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys profits.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions i giving Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, the director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the amount recommended by the directors.
The Board of directors may benefit ofthe Company, ii giving any guarantee, security or indemnity also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out to the director or a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can an indemnity orguarantee, iii relating to an offer of securities of the be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the directors decide, Company in whichthe director is entitled to participate as a holder using anappropriate exchange rate for any currency conversions which of shares or othersecurities or in the underwriting of such shares arerequired.
Holders of the Companys deferred shares have no right or securities, iv concerning any other company in which the director to dividends.
together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the or is otherwise interested, provided that the director together with any resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the connected person is not interested in 1% or more of any class of the resolution of the directors providing for payment of that dividend, Companys equity share capital or the voting rights available to its the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for shareholders, v relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend in which the director will share equally with other employees and remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either vi relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, its directors or any group of people including directors.
it willbe forfeited and belong to the Company.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company Voting rights to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount The Companys articles of association provide that voting on substantive of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the at a general meeting shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll, each Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy in the articles of association unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution has one vote for every share held.
Procedural resolutions such of the Companys shareholders.
as a resolution to adjourn a general meeting or a resolution on the The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree choice of Chairman of a general meeting shall be decided on a show todo so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one in a general meeting and subject to and in accordance with section 701 vote regardless ofthe number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
In addition, thearticles of association allow persons appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a show At each AGM all directors who were elected or last re-elected ofhands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current meetings.
The articles of association also allow persons appointed year shall automatically retire.
In 2005 the Company reviewed its policy asproxies by two or more shareholders entitled to vote at general regarding the retirement and re-election of directors and, although meetings to vote for and against a resolution on a show of hands.
itisnot intended to amend the Companys articles of association in thisregard, the Board has decided in the interests of good corporate Under English law two shareholders present in person constitute governance that all of the directors wishing to continue in office should a quorum for purposes of a general meeting unless a companys articles offer themselves for re-election annually.
The Companys articles of association do not specify otherwise, except that the shareholders do not Directors are not required under the Companys articles of association need to be present in person and may instead be present by proxy tohold any shares of the Company as a qualification to act to constitute a quorum.
as a director, although executive directors participating in long-term incentive plans must comply with the Companys share ownership Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the guidelines.
Inaccordance with best practice in the UK for corporate Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
governance, compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a Remuneration Committee consisting exclusively of .
Vodafone Group Plc 186 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information continued Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares andvote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the ascorporate representatives with respect to the underlying ordinary Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively holders of ADSs are percentage although such requirements exist under rules derived from entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing inaccordance with their instructions.
of shares that are admitted to trading on a regulated market and Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group carrying voting rights is an obligation to provide written notification Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested nominee share to the Company, including certain details as set out in DTR 5, where the account through the respective plans trustees.
percentage of the persons voting rights which he holds as shareholder or through his direct or indirect holding of financial instruments falling Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only within DTR 5.3.
1R reaches or exceeds 3% and reaches, exceeds or falls entitled to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached below each 1% threshold thereafter.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% cumulative fixed rate share.
Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company may, bynotice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has Holders of the Companys deferred shares are not entitled to attend reasonable cause to believe is, or was during the preceding three or vote at general meetings of the Company.
years, interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether or not Liquidation rights that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, Companies Act2006.
DTR 3 deals with the disclosure by persons the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would discharging managerial responsibility and their connected persons be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their account together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders in the shares of the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies Act 2006 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate sets out the statutory functions of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys surplus the Panel.
The Panel is responsible for issuing and administering the assets.
The holders of ordinary shares have priority over holders Code on Takeovers & Mergers which includes disclosure requirements of deferred shares.
on all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company and also on their respective associates Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares during the course of an offer period.
Under section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 directors are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares or securities General meetings and notices convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without the authority Subject to the articles of association, annual general meetings are held of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, section 561 of the at such times and place as determined by the directors of the Company.
Companies Act 2006 imposes further restrictions on the issue of equity The directors may also, when they think fit, convene other general securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 which include the meetings of the Company.
General meetings may also be convened Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary on requisition as provided by the Companies Act 2006. shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash and notfirst An annual general meeting needs to be called by not less than 21 days offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys articles ofassociation notice in writing.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual allow shareholders to authorise directors for a period specified basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities generally The directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and ii equity securities for ofmeetings are those persons entered on the register at the close cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer up to an amount of business on a day determined by the directors but not later than specified by the shareholders and free of the pre-emption restriction 21 days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may in section 561.
At the 2013 AGM the amount of relevant securities also specify the record date, the time of which shall be determined fixed by shareholders under i above and the amount of equity in accordance with the articles of association and the Companies securities specified by shareholders under ii above were both Act2006.
inline with corporate governance guidelines.
The directors consider itdesirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far governance guidelines to respond to market developments and as the Companies Act 2006 allows an electronic address or fax number to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities inthe UK in order to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders as they arise.
In order to retain such maximum flexibility, the directors meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances propose to renew the authorities granted by shareholders in 2013 the Company may give notices to shareholders bypublication on the at thisyears AGM.
Further details of such proposals are provided in the Companys website and advertisement in newspapers in the UK.
Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs.
Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within sixmonths of the Companys year end.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 186 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 187 Electronic communications Taxation The Company has previously passed a resolution allowing As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax it to communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax including making such information available on the Companys website.
consequences of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their Those shareholders who have positively elected for website particular circumstances.
communication or are deemed to have consented to receive electronic This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, communication in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 will in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax receive written notification whenever shareholder documentation consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company ismade available on the website.
held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, Variation of rights however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of holders subject to special rules including, for example, US expatriates of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the and former long-term residents of the US and officers of the Company, provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing employees and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that of the Companys voting stock.
class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the articles income tax purposes: of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, a a citizen or resident of the US: except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than a a US domestic corporation: one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such a an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who regardless of its source: or holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, ii any person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll and a a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the iii each shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income with or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets tax purposes.
of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
If an entity treated as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment Limitations on voting and shareholding of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner in an entity treated transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes holding the shares those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
or ADSs should consult its tax advisor with regard to the US federal No shareholder has any securities carrying special rights with regard income tax treatment of an investment in the shares or ADSs.
to control of the Company.
This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, Documents on display as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations The Company is subject to the information requirements of the thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance of the UK and the Double Taxation Convention between the US and with these requirements the Company files its annual report on Form the UK the treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These documents to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located This section is further based in part upon the representations of the at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement of the public reference room can be obtained in the United States and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the its terms.
Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website sec.
Shareholders can also For purposes of the treaty and the US-UK double taxation convention obtain copies ofthe Companys articles of association from our website relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, and for at vodafone.
com governance or from the Companys registeredoffice.
US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, this section is based on the assumption that a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated Material contracts as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADSs.
Investors should note that a ruling by the first-tier tax tribunal At the date of this annual report the Group is not party to any contracts in the UK has cast doubt on this view, but HMRC have stated that they that are considered material to the Groups results or operations will continue to apply their long-standing practice of regarding the except for its US$4.2 billion and 3.9 billion revolving credit facilities holder of such ADRs as holding the beneficial interest in the underlying which are discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the shares.
Investors should note, however, that this is an area of some consolidated financial statements and the stock purchase agreement uncertainty that may be subject to further developments in the future.
for the sale of the Groups entire 45% shareholding in VZW to Verizon Generally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not Communications Inc. be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes on page 189.
Exchange controls There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
Vodafone Group Plc 188 Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information continued Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains UK taxation UK taxation Under current UK tax law no withholding tax will be deducted from A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain the dividends we pay.
Shareholders who are within the charge on the disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder is: to UK corporation tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends a a citizen of the US resident for UK tax purposes in the UK: we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain other conditions are met.
It is expected that the dividends we pay would a a citizen of the US who has been resident for UK tax purposes in the generally be exempt.
UK, ceased to be so resident for a period of five years or less and who disposed of the shares or ADSs during that period a temporary nonA shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax resident, unless the shares or ADSs were also acquired during that purposes in the UK, is entitled in calculating their liability to UK income period, such liability arising on that individuals return to the UK: tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends we pay on our shares or ADSs and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
a a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of being centrally managed and controlled in the UK: or US federal income taxation Subject to the passive foreign investment corporation PFIC rules a a citizen of the US or a US domestic corporation that carries described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current or agency or, in the case of US domestic companies, through or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal a permanent establishment and that has used the shares or ADSs income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has used, that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch at the special reduced rate normally applicable to long-term capital or agency or permanent establishment.
gains provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before Under the treaty capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant requirements.
Dividends paid by us with respect to the shares or ADSs holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US and will generally be qualified dividend income.
A US holder is not subject as required by the terms of the treaty.
However, the treaty provides that to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross income for individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US and who have US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case actually received from us and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding the the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually of the disposition but also in that other country although, in respect or constructively receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations comprises a temporary non-resident.
in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the US.
For the purpose We published tax information relating to the return of value here: of the foreign tax credit limitation, foreign source income is classified vodafone.
in one of two baskets and the credit for foreign taxes on income in any US federal income taxation basket is limited to US federal income tax allocable to that income.
Subject to the passive foreign investment company rules described Generally the dividends we pay will constitute foreign source income below, a US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of our shares or ADSs in the passive income basket.
will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount to be included in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the payments made determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar shares or ADSs.
Generally a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder rate on the date of the dividend distribution regardless of whether the is taxed at a maximum US federal income tax rate of 20% provided payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally any gain or loss the holder has a holding period of more than one year and does not resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from have taxable income in excess of certain thresholds.
The gain or loss the date the dividend payment is to be included in income to the date will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject income or loss.
Generally the gain or loss will be income or loss from to limitations.
sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 188 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 189 Additional tax considerations PFIC rules We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock UK inheritance tax of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
This conclusion An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, any gain realised on the sale to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general not individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the be treated as capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for such gain andcertain excess distributions rateably over the holding the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares period for the shares orADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated.
An interest to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would was domiciled in the US and was not a UK national.
Where the shares also apply.
Dividends received from us would not be eligible for the or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift preferential tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income for certain or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit noncorporate holders.
against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
Backup withholding and information reporting UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US holder with respect Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any to shares or ADSs, by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will instrument transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary be reported to the Internal Revenue Service IRS and to the US holder at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale as may be required under applicable regulations.
Backup withholding or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax may apply to these payments if the US holder fails to provide SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price or value of the shares, could also an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt be payable in these circumstances and on issue to such a person but status or fails to report all interest and dividends required to be shown no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
on its US federal income tax returns.
Certain US holders are not subject A ruling by the European Court of Justice has determined that the to backup withholding.
US holders should consult their tax advisors 1.5% SDRT charges on issue of shares to a clearance service is contrary as to their qualification for exemption from backup withholding and the to EU law.
As a result of that ruling, HMRC indicated that where new procedure for obtaining an exemption.
shares are first issued to a clearance service or to a depositary within Foreign financial asset reporting the EU, the 1.5% SDRT charge will not be levied.
Subsequently, US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including a decision by the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK extended this ruling debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value in excess to the issue of shares or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or US$75,000 at any time the transfer of shares to depositary receipts systems wherever located.
during the taxable year or, for certain individuals living outside the HMRC have stated that they will not seek to appeal this decision United States and married individuals filing joint returns, certain higher and, as such, will no longer seek to impose 1.5% SDRT on the issue thresholds may be required to file an information report with respect of shares or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, the transfer to such assets with their tax returns.
The shares constitute foreign of shares to a clearance service or to a depositary, wherever located.
financial assets subject to these requirements unless the shares are held Investors should, however, be aware that this area may be subject in an account at a financial institution in which case the account may to further developments in the future.
be reportable if maintained by a foreign financial institution.
US holders No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of our ADSs provided should consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the rules that the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and relating to foreign financial asset reporting.
retained at all times outside the UK.
A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer our shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our ADSs will not give rise toSDRT.
