Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 190 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 191 Regulation Our operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing The national regulator is currently consulting on new mobile termination the operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically rates MTRs, with a decision due to be announced in December 2014. takes the form of industry specific law and regulation covering Italy telecommunications services and general competition antitrust Vodafone Italy, along with other Italian mobile operators, is the subject law applicable to all activities.
of an investigation by the Italian Antitrust Authority following a dawn The following section describes the regulatory frameworks and the raid in November 2012.
This followed a complaint from an MVNO that key regulatory developments at the global and supranational level it had been excluded from the market.
The investigation is ongoing and and in selected countries in which we have significant interests during Vodafone Italy is cooperating with the Antitrust Authority.
Many of the regulatory developments Vodafone Italy has appealed against the injunction of the national reported in the following section involve ongoing proceedings regulator AGCOM ordering them to adopt all measures required under or consideration of potential proceedings that have not reached the Roaming Regulation in relation to roaming charges within a tariff.
Accordingly, we are unable to attach a specific level of financial risk to our performance from such matters.
For information on litigation in Italy, see note 30 Contingent liabilities.
United Kingdom European Union EU In October 2013, the national regulator Ofcom began a consultation In September 2013, the European Commission the Commission on revising the annual licence fees payable on licences for the use delivered major regulatory proposals aimed at building a telecoms of spectrum in the 900MHz and 1800MHz bands, to reflect market single market and delivering a Connected Continent.
These proposals value and with regard to the sums bid in the 4G auction.
The 900MHz, have been amended by the European Parliament and will now 1800MHz and 2.1GHz licences have been made technology-neutral, be reviewed by the European Council.
The Commissions proposals allowing them to be used for 4G.
include the following: Spain a a simplified notification process for telecommunications operators In June 2013, the Spanish Parliament adopted Act 3 2013 creating across the EU: the National Markets and Competition Commission CNMC as the new national regulator, responsible for both competition and a removal of all roaming surcharges after June 2016: regulatory matters.
a increased transparency requirements for consumers: In August 2013, Vodafone Spain filed a competition complaint with a harmonisation of Spectrum allocation rules: and the competition authority against Telefnica and Yoigo for an alleged unauthorised transfer of the use of Yoigos spectrum to Telefnica a net neutrality requirements, which include restrictions on blocking, with a parallel complaint filed to the Ministry in September 2013. slowing down or discriminating against any internet content.
The Ministry rejected that complaint in November 2013 and Vodafone Spain has submitted an administrative appeal against this decision Roaming in December 2013, stating that Yoigo and Telefnica are undertaking The current roaming regulation came into force in July 2012 and an unauthorised spectrum sharing arrangement.
The Ministry has not requires mobile operators to supply voice, text and data roaming yet announced its decision.
services under retail price caps.
Wholesale price caps also apply to voice, text and data roaming services.
In February 2014, Vodafone Spain lodged a competition claim before the national regulator against Telefnica citing abuse of its The roaming regulation also requires a number of additional dominant position in both its fibre roll-out and fibre retail offers as well measures which are intended to increase competition in the retail as subscribing to anticompetitive agreements with Jazztel.
market for roaming and thereby facilitate the withdrawal of price caps.
These include a requirement that users be able, from July In March 2014, the national regulator concluded there were 2014, to purchase roaming services from a provider other than their no sanctions to apply against Telefnica, Orange and Vodafone in the current domestic provider and to retain the same phone number margin squeeze case that was originally brought to them by a MVNO when roaming.
Fixed network regulation The fines applied to Telefnica, Orange and Vodafone Spain in In September 2013, the Commission published its recommendation December 2012 for abuse of dominant position by imposing excessive on costing methodologies and non-discrimination which aims to pricing of wholesale SMS MMS services on MVNOs, remain suspended encourage Next Generation Access NGA investment.
NGA networks until the judicial review is concluded.
of operators with Significant Market Power SMP may be exempt Netherlands from cost-oriented wholesale prices if access is provided on the basis In November 2013, the investigation of the Dutch competition of equivalence of inputs i. e. exactly the same products, prices and authority ACM into the three mobile operators KPN, T-Mobile and processes are offered to competitors with effective margin squeeze Vodafone Netherlands concluded without any fine being imposed.
tests to ensure technical and economic replicability.
Copper wholesale ACM determined that there were no price-fixing agreements in the network prices are expected to remain within a guide price band of 8 to  market.
However, ACM did establish that 10per month.
public statements about future market behaviour could carry antitrust risks.
The three operators have therefore made a commitment to ACM Europe region that they will refrain from making certain statements about future Germany market behaviour in public to avoid any risk of illegal collusive behaviour The Federal Network Agency BNetzA has indicated that the in the future.
envisaged merger of Telefnica Deutschland and E-plus will have implications for spectrum allocation, and this is expected to impact the current proceedings on 700MHz, 900MHz, 1500MHz and 1800MHz licensing Project 2016.
BNetzA is unlikely to decide on the further procedure until the envisaged Telefnica Deutschland E-plus merger is finally decided in mid-2014.
