V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 32 32 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Operations We are using the benefits of our global reach and scale to standardise and simplify the way we do business across the Group.
This will both improve cost efficiency and reduce the time to launch new services and products to our customers.
Context Where we are going a The challenging economic, regulatory and competitive We aim to improve operational efficiency, and to speed up and environment we face in Europe has led to declining revenues in our co-ordinate our time to market for new propositions and services, by: European businesses.
a using our centralised functions more: a Inflationary pressure in emerging markets is putting upward a driving standardisation and simplification of our business pressure on our cost base.
to maximise the benefits of our scale: a The trend towards greater data usage significantly increases the a offshoring more business functions to shared service centres: traffic on our network.
a applying new technology to improve efficiency: and a Against this background, to protect our level of profitability, we must continue to find ways to improve operating efficiency and a reducing non-customer facing cost.
simplify and standardise processes for customers.
Using our centralised functions more Offshoring functions to shared service centres of expertise The Vodafone Procurement Company VPC in Luxembourg centrally manages the strategic procurement of the majority of our overall spend.
Our business depends on having simple and effective operations This allows us to leverage scale and achieve better prices and terms that leverage the benefits of shared service centres to support our and conditions.
During the year the spend managed through the VPC operations across the globe.
increased to 10.2 billion which represents around 50% of our spend, Over the past three years we have expanded the scope of shared service up from 6.9 billion in the prior year.
centres in Egypt, India and Europe to provide financial, administrative, By utilising the VPC we also learn how to apply best practice across IT, customer operations and human resource services for all of our 1 different spend categories.
For example, by applying techniques from markets.
In 2012, we had just 9,500 shared centre employees and this how we manage the software licences for our data centres under has now risen to over 13,300, and has expanded to cover commercial a single contract to how we buy software for our network operations, activities for our Enterprise business and customers.
Our shared services we have achieved a 30% reduction in prices compared to what our are delivering cash cost savings at an annualised run-rate of about markets were achieving in isolation.
We expect to have around 16,000 employees in shared services by 2016.
Standardisation and simplification Applying new technology to improve efficiency In the UK, we completed the first phase of a programme to simplify our organisation and improve all of our IT systems for billing, customer We have been at the forefront of Single RAN Radio Access relationship management, and online and retail services.
All prepaid Network technology that enables the combination of 2G, 3G and customers services have migrated from legacy IT systems to one new 4G technologies into the same radio equipment.
This has a number integrated platform.
This has resulted in simplification of our tariffs and of costbenefits including reduced floor space requirements onsite improved end-to-end order processing times.
We have also upgraded which reduces our site rentals, and efficient power technology provides all our retail points of sale to make the sales and logistics processes savings our energy bill.
Single RAN units are now present in 45% of our simpler for our staff.
All of this means a better experience for customers.
sites and we plan to expand this to 69% by 2016.
We have reduced the number of ways of returning a handset to eight, and through our rationalisation programme we are reducing our Reducing non-customer facing costs consumer price plans from nearly 5,000 to under 500.
While we continue to expand our employee base in customer facing positions, we have been able to make savings across administrative support positions in Europe.
On balance this has led to a decrease in the number of employees in Europe excluding our acquisitions of Kabel Deutschland and the minority stake in Vodafone Italy and an increase in the number of employees in AMAP.
Note: 1 Restated from 6,000, as stated in last years report, to include shared services employees supporting India customer operations.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 33 Deploying Single Radio Access Network sites % of total Moving employees to shared services helps reduce costs to reduce costs 60 15,000 13,300 10,700 40 10,000 9,500 45 34 20 5,000 24 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 0.3 billion reduction in organic European and common functions operating expenses Sharing network sites to reduce costs Nearly three quarters of the new radio sites deployed across the Group during the year were shared with other mobile operators, which reduces the cost of renting or building new sites by about 20% compared to nonshared units.
During the year we entered into new sharing arrangements in threemarkets Greece, Romania and Italy.
Virtualising our network We are increasingly looking at ways to virtualise our network through cloud computing.
This requires us to move our existing network capabilities from dedicated hardware onto virtualised applications running over the cloud.
As a result we are able to simplify our network architecture and reduce costs.
Virtualised networks are more scalable and resilient, and enable the faster deployment of new services.
With this capability, we have started rolling out new features such as a messaging platform for our M2M products, and many more areplanned.
Helping our customers cut costs We estimated that our products and services in smart metering and logistics, fleet management, call conferencing, and cloud and hosting services, could save our customers 2.29 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e almost equal to our total emissions 2 last year.
