Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 90 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 91 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Opinion In our opinion: a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: a the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: a the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and a the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of financial position and parent company balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the related Group notes 1 to 34 and the related parent company notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement on page 89 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: a we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and a we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Our risk assessment process continues throughout the audit and, as a result, we have identified three additional risks of material misstatement in the current year that had a significant effect on our audit strategy.
These relate to the disposal of the investment in Verizon Wireless, the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland Holding AG and judgements in respect of provisions and contingent liabilities.
In addition, we identified deficiencies in IT controls in relation to privileged user access which also impacted our audit strategy.
The remaining risks were assessed as continuing risks from our audit of the previous years financial statements.
The procedures described in our response to each risk are not exhaustive and we have focused on those procedures that we consider address areas of judgement or subjectivity.
As part of our audit of the Group, in addition to substantive tests, we also test the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in each of the risk areas.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
