Vodafone Group Plc 54 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance What is our governance framework?
Responsibility for good governance lies with your Board.
There is a strong and effective governance system in place throughout the Group.
Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee Key objectives: a leadership, operation and governance of the Board a setting the agenda for the Board More detail: Page 55 The Board of Vodafone Group Plc 14 directors: three executive directors, the Chairman and ten independent non-executive directors including the Senior Independent Director.
Key objectives: a responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business More detail: See below a setting the Groups strategy Nominations and Governance Audit and Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Risk Committee Committee Vittorio Colao Three independent Four independent Four independent non-executive directors plus non-executive directors.
Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman Chairman: Nick Land Chairman: Luc Vandevelde Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objective: Key objectives: a to ensure the Board comprises a to provide effective governance a to assess and make a management of the business individuals with the necessary skills, over the Groups financial results recommendations a implementation of strategy knowledge and experience a to review the activity and to the Board on the policy and policy a to have oversight of all matters performance of the internal audit on executive remuneration relating to corporate governance function and external auditors a management of the Groups system of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities More detail: More detail: More detail: More detail: Pages 58 and 59 Pages 60 to 64 Page 65 Page 55 Executive Committee 11 members made up of the executive directors, Group function heads and the regional chief executives.
Chairman: Vittorio Colao Key objective: a to focus on strategy, financial structure and planning, financial and competitive performance, succession planning, organisational development and Group-wide policies More detail: Page 65 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision and How does the Board operate?
these include: The role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business a Group strategy and long-term plans: and has the powers and duties set out in the relevant laws of England a major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: and Wales and our articles of association.
The Board: a annual budget and operating plan: a is responsible for setting the Group strategy and for the management, direction and performance of our businesses: a Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: a is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct a annual and half-year financial results and shareholder of the business: communications: and a is responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having a system of internal control and risk management.
regard for the interests of all stakeholders: and The schedule is reviewed annually.
It was last reviewed in March a is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our 2014 when it was decided to add a requirement for Board approval system of corporate governance.
for advisors fees in excess of 10 million on corporate acquisitions and disposals.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees, details of which are given on pages 58 to 65.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 54 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 55 Board composition The balance and independence of our Board is kept under review by our Our Board consists of 14 directors, 13 of whom served throughout the Nominations and Governance Committee, details of which can be found year.
Valerie Gooding was appointed as a non-executive director with on pages 58 and 59. effect from 1 February 2014.
Tenure of non-executive directors At 31 March 2014, in addition to the Chairman, Gerard Kleisterlee, The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider when there were three executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
determining the independence of non-executive directors.
The table Andy Halford, the Chief Financial Officer, retired on 31 March 2014 and below shows the tenure and independence of each of our nonNick Read was appointed to this role and as an executive director with executive directors.
We consider all of our non-executive directors effect from 1 April 2014.
The executive and non-executive directors to be independent.
are equal members of the Board and have collective responsibility Date first Years from Considered to elected by first election to be independent for the Companys direction.
In particular, non-executive directors are shareholders 2014 AGM by the Board responsible for: 1 Gerard Kleisterlee July 2011 3 See note a bringing a wide range of skills and experience, including independent To be put up for judgement on issues of strategy, performance and risk management: Valerie Gooding election July 2014 n a Yes Renee James July 2011 3 Yes a constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Alan Jebson July 2007 7 Yes Executive and executive directors: Samuel Jonah July 2009 5 Yes a scrutinising and challenging performance across the Omid Kordestani July 2013 1 Yes Groups business: Nick Land July 2007 7 Yes a assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and Anne Lauvergeon July 2006 8 Yes 2 controls: and Luc Vandevelde July 2004 10 Yes Anthony Watson July 2006 8 Yes a determining the Companys broad policy for executive remuneration, Philip Yea July 2006 8 Yes and the remuneration packages for the executive directors and the Chairman.
Notes: 1 Considered to be independent on appointment.
2 Considered to be independent for the reasons given on page 59.
Key roles and responsibilities The Chairman The Chief Executive Gerard Kleisterlee Vittorio Colao The role of the Chairman is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The role of the Chief Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the He is responsible for: Board.
He is responsible for: a the effective leadership, operation and governance of the Board: a management of the Groups business: a ensuring the effectiveness of the Board: a implementation of the Companys strategy and policies: a setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions: and a maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman: and a ensuring the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Senior Independent Director The Company Secretary Luc Vandevelde Rosemary Martin The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board.
In doing so she: a acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: a assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and a serving as an intermediary for the other directors: timely access to all relevant information: a being available to shareholders if they have concerns which they a assists the Chairman by organising induction and have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the training programmes: Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors or for which such contact is inappropriate: and a is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and a conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the a administers the procedure under which directors can, where non-executive directors.
appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Biographical details of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director can be found on pages 50 and 51 or at vodafone.
Biographical details of the Company Secretary can be found on page 53 or at vodafone.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Vodafone Group Plc 56 Annual Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Board activities in the 2014 financial year Conflicts of interest Board activities are structured to assist the Board in achieving its goal The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and to support and advise executive management on the delivery of the is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Groups strategy within a transparent governance framework.
The process for monitoring conflicts is as follows: The diagram below shows the key areas of focus for the Board which a changes to the commitments of all directors are reported appear as items on the Boards agenda at relevant times throughout to the Board: the year.
Concentrated discussion of these items assists the Board a the directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire in making the right decisions based on the long-term opportunities for initially on appointment and annually thereafter: the business and its stakeholders.
a any conflicts identified would be submitted to the Board excluding Key areas of focus for the Board the director to whom the potential conflict related for consideration and, as appropriate, authorisation in accordance with the Companies Business Act 2006 and the articles of association: performance Chief Executives a where authorisation is granted, it would be recorded in a register Business strategy business report of potential conflicts and reviewed periodically: and Diversity and Customer Commercial talent propositions, performance in a directors are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if they technological, Succession local markets become aware of actual or potential conflict situations or a change geographic and planning Business structural strategy in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
development Talent capability and diversity Brand status andevolution No conflicts of interest have been identified during the year.
Operations updates Board meetings Matters considered at all Board meetings include: a the Chief Executives report on strategic and business developments: Being responsible Business risks a the Chief Financial Officers report which includes the latest available Health and safety Strategic and management accounts: operational risks Compliance Reputation a an operations update covering commercial, technology and operational matters : a a report on potential changes to the Groups portfolio of corporate assets: and Governance Shareholder focus Board performance a where applicable, reports from the Nominations and Returns to Board committee reports Governance Committee, Audit and Risk Committee and shareholders Corporate governance Remuneration Committee.
Shareholder updates engagement Financials In addition to the standing agenda items, topics covered by the Board Sustainability Transformational Chief Financial during the year included the disposal of the Companys interest products Officers report in Verizon Wireless, the acquisition of the remaining interest in Vodafone and services Long range plan Italy, the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland and the audit tender.
Sustainable forecasts business practices Management Board effectiveness Vodafone accounts Board effectiveness is reviewed every year.
After last years external Foundation performance evaluation the Board agreed: a to develop further its approach to strategic planning and involve the directors earlier in the process of strategy development: a to provide more opportunities for the directors to meet with executives to assist in succession planning: and a to ensure the induction of new directors enables them rapidly to contribute fully to the Board.
Since then, the Chairman has introduced a number of improvements including: informing the Board regularly about possible Board appointments, trying to speed up the director appointment process, organising for senior executives to brief directors on various aspects of our business and increasing the number of opportunities available for senior executives to meet with the Board, e. g. through informal meetings or mentoring, and improving the induction programme for new directors.
Performance evaluation Board effectiveness is reviewed by an external performance evaluation every three years.
As an external evaluation was conducted last year, this year the Board performed an internal performance evaluation.
