Vodafone Group Plc 74 Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table Existing arrangements We will honour existing awards to executive directors, and incentives, benefits and contractual arrangements made to individuals prior to their promotion to the Board.
This will last until the existing incentives vest or lapse or the benefits or contractual arrangements no longer apply.
Long-Term Incentive GLTI When referring to our long-term incentive awards we use the financial year end in which the award was made.
For example, the 2013 award was made in the financial year ending 31 March 2013.
The awards are usually made in the first half of the financial year the 2013 award was made in July 2012.
The extent to which awards vest depends on two performance conditions: a underlying operational performance as measured by adjusted free cash flow: and a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against a peer group median.
Adjusted free cash flow The free cash flow performance is based on the cumulative adjusted free cash flow figure over the performance period.
The detailed targets and the definition ofadjusted free cash flow are determined each year as appropriate.
The target adjusted free cash flow level is set by reference to our long-range plan and market expectations.
We consider the targets to be critical to the Companys long-term success and its ability to maximise shareholder value, and to be in line with the strategic goals of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee sets these targets to be sufficiently demanding with significant stretch where only outstanding performance will be rewarded with a maximum payout.
The cumulative adjusted free cash flow vesting levels as a percentage of target are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Performance Vesting percentage Below threshold 0% Threshold 50% Target 100% Maximum 125% TSR outperformance of a peer group median We have a limited number of appropriate peers and this makes the measurement of a relative ranking system volatile.
As such, the outperformance of the median of a peer group is felt to be the most appropriate TSR measure.
The peer group for the performance condition is reviewed each year and amended as appropriate.
The relative TSR position determines the performance multiplier.
Thiswill beapplied to the adjusted free cash flow vesting percentage.
There will be no multiplier until TSR performance exceeds median.
Above median, thefollowing table will apply with linear interpolation between points : Multiplier Median No increase Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 65th percentile 1.5 times Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 80th percentile 2.0 times In order to determine the percentages for the equivalent outperformance levels above median, the Remuneration Committee seeks independent external advice.
Combined vesting matrix The combination of the two performance measures gives a combined vesting matrix as follows with linear interpolation between points : TSR outperformance Up to 65th percentile 80th percentile Adjusted free cash flow measure Median equivalent equivalent Below threshold 0% 0% 0% Threshold 50% 75% 100% Target 100% 150% 200% Maximum 125% 187.5% 250% The combined vesting percentages are applied to the target number of shares granted.
Outstanding awards For the awards made in the 2013 and 2014 financial years vesting in July 2015 and June 2016 respectively the award structure is as set out above, except that the maximum vesting percentage for cumulative adjusted free cash flow was 150% leading to an overall maximum of 300% of target award.
Remuneration policy for other employees While our remuneration policy follows the same fundamental principles across the Group, packages offered to employees reflect differences in market practice in the different countries, role and seniority.
For example, the remuneration package elements for our executive directors are essentially the same as for the other Executive Committee members, with some small differences, for example higher levels of share awards.
The remuneration for the next level of management, our senior leadership team, again follows the same principles but with differences such as local and individual performance aspects in the annual bonus targets and performance share awards.
They also receive lower levels of share awards which are partly delivered in restricted shares.
