Vodafone Group Plc 164 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows, where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote, but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Restated 2014 2013 m m 1 Performance bonds 442 266 2 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 2,500 1,257 Notes: 1 Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any relatedcontracts or commercial arrangements.
2 Other guarantees principally comprise Vodafone Group Plcs guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD 1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited.
UK pension schemes The Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Trustee of the Vodafone Group Pension Scheme whilst there is a deficit in the scheme.
The deficit is measured on a prescribed basis agreed between the Group and Trustee.
In 2010 the Group and Trustee agreed security of a charge over UK index linked gilts ILG held by the Group.
In December 2011, the security was increased by an additional charge over further ILG due to a significant increase in the deficit at that time.
In April 2014, the security was reduced following a reduction in the deficit following the results of the 2013 valuation and a 325 million company contribution to the Scheme see note 26 Post employment benefits.
The scheme retains security over 186.5 million notional value 2017 ILGs.
The security may be substituted either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
As and when alternative security is provided, the Group has agreed that the security cover should include additional headroom of 33%, although if cash is used as the security asset the ratio will revert to 100% of the relevant liabilities or where the proposed replacement security asset is listed on an internationally recognised stock exchange in certain core jurisdictions, the Trustee may decide to agree a lower ratio than 133%.
The Company has also provided two guarantees to the scheme for a combined value up to 1.5 billion to provide security over the deficit under certain defined circumstances, including insolvency of the employers.
The Company has also agreed similar guarantees for the Trustees of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan and THUS Plc Group Scheme up to 1.25 billion and 110 million respectively, following the acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to time, involved in a number of legal proceedings including inquiries from, or discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not currently involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, whichmay arise from any of the legal proceedings outlined below can be made.
Materiality is lower than for the year ended 31 March 2013 as a result of the disposal of the Groups interest in Verizon Wireless and accordingly, certain matters discussed below were not disclosed in prior years.
Telecom Egypt arbitration In October 2009 Telecom Egypt commenced arbitration against Vodafone Egypt in Cairo alleging breach of non-discrimination provisions in an interconnection agreement as a result of lower interconnection rates paid to Vodafone Egypt by Mobinil.
Telecom Egypt has also sought to join Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV, Vodafone Europe BV VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc which Telecom Egypt alleges should be held jointly liable with Vodafone Egypt to the arbitration.
VIHBV, VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc deny that they were subject to the interconnection agreement or any arbitration agreement with Telecom Egypt.
Telecom Egypt initially quantified its claim at approximately 190 million in 2009.
This was subsequently amended and increased to 551 million in January 2011 and further increased to its current value of just over 1.2 billion in November 2011.
The Company disputes Telecom Egypts claim and assertion of jurisdiction over VIHBV, VEBV and Vodafone Group Plc and will continue to defend the Vodafone companies position vigorously.
The arbitration hearing concluded in November 2013.
The parties completed final written submissions in March 2014.
A decision is now awaited from the tribunal during 2014.
Indian tax case In August 2007 and September 2007, Vodafone India Limited VIL and VIHBV respectively received notices from the Indian tax authority alleging potential liability in connection with an alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned subsidiary that indirectly holds interests in VIL.
In January 2012 the Indian Supreme Court handed down its judgement, holding that VIHBVs interpretation of the Income Tax Act 1961 was correct, that the HTIL transaction in 2007 was not taxable in India, and that consequently, VIHBV had no obligation to withhold tax from consideration paid to HTIL in respect of the transaction.
The Indian Supreme Court quashed the relevant notices and demands issued to VIHBV in respect of withholding tax and interest.
On 20 March 2012 the Indian Government returned VIHBVs deposit of INR 25 billion and released the guarantee for INR 85 billion, which was based on the demand for payment issued by the Indian tax authority in October 2010, for tax of INR 79 billion plus interest.
On 16 March 2012, the Indian Government introduced proposed legislation the Finance Bill 2012 purporting to overturn the Indian Supreme Courts judgement with retrospective effect back to 1962.
On 17 April 2012, Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV filed a trigger notice under the Dutch-India Bilateral Investment Treaty BIT signalling its intent to invoke arbitration under the BIT should the new laws be enacted.
The Finance Bill 2012 received Presidential assent and became law on 28 May 2012 the Finance Act 2012.
The Finance Act 2012 is intended to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company, which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets, such as VIHBVs transaction with HTIL in 2007.
Further it seeks to subject a purchaser, such as VIHBV, to a retrospective obligation to withhold tax.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 164 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 165 The Indian Government commissioned a committee of experts the Shome committee consisting of academics, and current and former Indian government officials, to examine, and make recommendations in respect of, aspects of the Finance Act 2012 including the retrospective taxation of transactions such as VIHBVs transaction with HTIL referred to above.
On 10 October 2012, the Shome committee published its draft report for comment.
The draft report concluded that tax legislation in the Finance Act 2012 should only be applied prospectively or, if applied retrospectively, that only a seller who made a gain should be liable and, in that case, without any liability for interest or penalties.
The Shome committees final report was submitted to the Indian Government on 31 October 2012, but no final report has been published, and it remains unclear what the Indian Government intends to do with the Shome committees final report or its recommendations.
VIHBV has not received any formal demand for taxation following the Finance Act 2012, but it did receive a letter on 3 January 2013 reminding it of the tax demand raised prior to the Indian Supreme Courts judgement and purporting to update the interest element of that demand to a total amount of INR 142 billion.
The separate proceedings taken against VIHBV to seek to treat it as an agent of HTIL in respect of its alleged tax on the same transaction, as well as penalties of up to 100% of the assessed withholding tax for the alleged failure to have withheld such taxes, remain pending despite the issue having been ruled upon by the Indian Supreme Court.
Should a further demand for taxation be received by VIHBV or any member of the Group as a result of the new retrospective legislation, we believe it is probable that we will be able to make a successful claim under the BIT.
Although this would not result in any outflow of economic benefit from the Group, it could take several years for VIHBV to recover any deposit required by an Indian Court as a condition for any stay of enforcement of a tax demand pending the outcome of VIHBVs BIT claim.
However, VIHBV expects that it would be able to recover any such deposit.
On 17 January 2014, VIHBV served on the Indian Government an amended trigger notice under the BIT, supplementing the trigger notice filed on 17 April 2012, to add claims relating to an attempt by the Indian Government to tax aspects of the transaction with Hutchison under transfer pricing rules.
On 17 April 2014, VIHBV served its notice of arbitration under the BIT, formally commencing the BIT arbitration proceedings.
We did not carry a provision for this litigation or in respect of the retrospective legislation at 31 March 2014, or at previous reporting dates.
Other Indian tax cases VIL and Vodafone India Services Private Limited VISPL formerly 3GSPL are involved in a number of tax cases with total claims exceeding 1 billion plus interest, and penalties of up to 300% of the principal.
VIL tax claims The claims against VIL range from disputes concerning transfer pricing and the applicability of value-added tax to SIM cards, to the disallowance of income tax holidays.
The quantum of the tax claims against VIL is in the region of 0.9 billion.
VIL is of the opinion that any finding of material liability to tax, is not probable.
VISPL tax claims VISPL has been assessed to owe tax of approximately 240 million plus interest of 190 million in respect of i a transfer pricing margin charged for the international call centre of Hutchison prior to the transaction with Vodafone: ii the sale of the international call centre by VISPL to Hutchison and iii the alleged transfer of options held by VISPL for VIL equity shares.
The first two of the three heads of tax are subject to an indemnity by Hutchison under the VIHBV Tax Deed of Indemnity.
The larger part of the potential claim is not subject to any indemnity.
VISPL unsuccessfully challenged the merits of the tax demand in the statutory tax tribunal and the jurisdiction of the tax office to make the demand in the High Court.
The case is now in the Tax Appeal Tribunal after VISPL obtained a stay of the tax demand on a deposit of 20 million and a corporate guarantee by VIHBV for the balance.
If VISPL loses the appeal, its terms of the stay of demand may be revisited and could be increased while VISPL pursues further appeals in the High Court and the Supreme Court.
Indian regulatory cases Litigation remains pending in the Telecommunications Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal TDSAT, High Courts and the Supreme Court in relation to a number of significant regulatory issues including mobile termination rates MTRs, spectrum and licence fees, licence extension and 3G intra-circle roaming ICR.
Public interest litigation: Yakesh Anand v Union of India, Vodafone and others The Petitioner has brought a special leave petition in the Indian Supreme Court on 30 January 2012 against the Government of India and mobile network operators, including VIL, seeking recovery of the alleged excess spectrum allocated to the operators, compensation for the alleged excess spectrum held in the amount of approximately 4.7 billion and a criminal investigation of an alleged conspiracy between government officials and the network operators.
A claim with similar allegations was dismissed by the Supreme Court in March 2012, with an order that the Petitioner should pay a fine for abuse of process.
The case is pending before the Supreme Court and is expected to be called for hearing at some uncertain future date.
One time spectrum charges: Vodafone India v Union of India The Government of India has sought to impose one time spectrum charges of approximately 525 million on certain operating subsidiaries of VIL.
We filed a petition before the TDSAT challenging the one time spectrum charges on the basis that they are illegal, violate Vodafones licence terms and are arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory.
The tribunal stayed enforcement of the Governments spectrum demand pending resolution of the dispute.
The case is now ready for trial.
3G inter-circle roaming: Vodafone India and others v Union of India In April 2013, the Indian Department of Telecommunications issued a stoppage notice to VILs operating subsidiaries and other mobile operators requiring the immediate stoppage of the provision of 3G services on other operators mobile networks in an alleged breach of licences.
The regulator also imposed a fine of approximately 5.5 million.
We applied to the Delhi High Court for an order quashing the regulators notice.
Interim relief from the notice has been granted but limited to existing customers at the time with the effect that VIL was not able to provide 3G services to new customers on other operators 3G networks pending a decision on the issue.
The dispute was referred to the TDSAT for decision, which ruled on 28 April 2014 that VIL and the other operators were permitted to provide 3G services to their customers current and future on other operators networks.
An appeal by the Department of Telecommunications is possible.
Vodafone Group Plc 166 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities continued Extension of licences in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata: VIL and others v Union of India We sought an extension of our existing licences in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata along with existing licensed spectrum.
That extension was denied by the Department of Telecommunications by order dated 21 March 2013.
We appealed that decision to the TDSAT and by its order dated 31 January 2014, the TDSAT denied the extension.
The Supreme Court has agreed to hear our appeal on an expedited basis.
Other cases in the Group Italy British Telecom Italy v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to concerns it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, British Telecom Italy brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
British Telecom Italy seeks damages in the amount of 280 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market for the period 1999 to 2007.
A court appointed expert has delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case are in the region of 10 million to 25 million.
FASTWEB v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to concerns it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, FASTWEB brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
FASTWEB seeks damages in the amount of 360 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market.
A court appointed expert has delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case are in the region of 0.5 million to 2.3 million.
Greece Papistas Holdings SA, Mobile Trade Stores formerly Papistas SA and Athanasios and Loukia Papistas v Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and Officers of Vodafone In December 2013, Mr and Mrs Papistas, and companies owned or controlled by them, brought three claims in the Greek court in Athens against Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain directors and officers of Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc for purported damage caused by the alleged abuse of dominance and wrongful termination of a franchise arrangement with a Papistas company.
Approximately 1.0 billion of the claim is directed exclusively at one former and one current director of Vodafone Greece.
The balance of the claim approximately 285.5 million is sought from Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc on a joint and several basis.
The cases are scheduled to come to trial in November 2015 and April 2016.
Tanzania Cats-Net Limited v Vodacom Tanzania Limited In 2012, Cats-Net Limited brought a claim for US$500 million US$200 million compensatory and US$300 million punitive in damages against Vodacom Tanzania Limited in the Tanzanian High Court.
Cats-Net is also seeking an order cancelling Vodacom Tanzanias mobile telecommunications licence.
The claim is based on the actions of the Tanzanian Telecommunications Regulatory Authority TTRA who, following complaints by Vodacom Tanzania of interference caused by transmissions of Cats-Net, allegedly shut down the operations of Cats-Net after conducting its own investigation.
Cats-Net alleges collusion between the TTRA and Vodacom Tanzania.
Vodacom Tanzania filed an application to strike out the claim.
That application has been argued and the parties await a decision of the Court.
