Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 96 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 97 Commentary on the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income The consolidated income statement includes the The consolidated statement of comprehensive majority of our income and expenses for the year income records all of the income and with the remainder recorded in the consolidated losses generated for the year.
Further details on the major movements in the year are set out below: Further details on the major movements in the year are set out below: Profit for the financial year Profit for the financial year of 59.4 billion is recognised in the Revenue consolidated income statement and the reasons underlying the Revenue increased by 0.8% to 38.3 billion.
The increase is driven 58.8 billion increase are provided above.
by revenue growth in our AMAP region and business acquisitions, partially offset by revenue declines in Europe due to challenging Foreign exchange differences, net of tax trading conditions and by unfavourable exchange rate movements.
Foreign exchange translation differences arise when we translate the Our operating results discussion on pages 40 to 45 provides further results and net assets of our operating companies, joint arrangements detail on our revenue performance.
and associates, which transact their operations in foreign currencies including the euro, South African rand and Indian rupee, into our Operating loss presentation currency of sterling.
The net movements in foreign Our operating loss increased to 3.9 billion from 2.2 billion as lower exchange rates resulted in a loss of 4.1 billion for the year compared impairment charges were offset by lower revenue, higher customer with a gain in the previous year of 0.4 billion.
During the year we recorded goodwill impairment charges of 6.6 billion relating to our businesses Foreign exchange losses gains transferred to the in Germany, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic and Romania see note 4 income statement Impairment losses.
The foreign exchange losses transferred to the income statement in the year ended 31 March 2014 relate to the recycling of amounts Income tax expense in relation to our investment in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone Italy We recorded an income tax credit on continuing operations which were triggered, respectively, by the disposal and the acquisition of 16.6 billion compared with a 0.5 billion charge in 2013.
The credit of a controlling stake.
primarily arises from the recognition of 19.3 billion of deferred tax assets for tax losses in Germany and Luxembourg partly offset Net actuarial gains losses on defined benefit schemes, by taxes arising from the disposal of the Groups investment in Verizon net of tax Wireless see note 6 Taxation.
Our adjusted effective tax rate, We realised a 37 million post-tax gain from the revaluation of the a non-GAAP measure used by management to measure the rate Groups defined benefit pension schemes after updating actuarial of tax on our adjusted profit before tax, increased to 27.3% from assumptions and revaluing scheme assets.
Further information on how our adjusted effective tax charge is determined is provided within the operating results discussion on page 44.
Profit for the year from discontinued operations Discontinued operations includes the 45.0 billion profit arising on the disposal of the Groups investment in Verizon Wireless, 1.7 billion of dividends receivable since the disposal and the post-tax profits of the Groups share of Verizon Wireless and entities in the US Group sold to Verizon Communications as part of the overall disposal transaction up until 2 September 2013 when the proposed disposal was announced.
The profit from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2014 has increased to 48.1 billion from 4.6 billion, primarily due to the profit arising from the disposal of the Groups investment in Verizon Wireless.
Further information is provided in note 7 Discontinued operations and note 28 Acquisitions and disposals.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations was 42.10 pence, an increase of 57.76 pence, driven by the recognition of 19.3 billion of deferred tax assets for losses in Germany and Luxembourg.
Total Group basic earnings per share, which includes profits from discontinued operations, increased by 222.30 pence to 223.84 pence primarily as a result of the 45.0 billion gain recognised on the disposal of the US Group.
Adjusted earnings per share, which is a non-GAAP measure used by management and which excludes items that we do not view as being reflective of our performance, was 17.54 pence, a decrease of 12.8% compared to the prior year.
The reduction was primarily due to lower adjusted operating profits, partially offset by a reduction in the number of the Groups shares due to the Groups share buyback programme.
Our calculation of the adjusted earnings on which we base our adjusted earnings per share calculation is set out within the operating results on page 45.
Note 8 Earnings per share provides information on the number of shares used for determining earnings per share.
The financial commentary on this page is unaudited.
