Vodafone Group Plc 146 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Liquidity and capital resources continued Furthermore, certain of our subsidiaries are funded by external facilities which are non-recourse to any member of the Group other than the borrower.
These facilities may only be used to fund their operations.
At 31 March 2014 Vodafone India had facilities of INR 207 billion 2.1 billion of which INR 179 billion 1.8 billion was drawn.
Vodafone Egypt had an undrawn revolving credit facility of US$120 million 71 million.
Vodacom had fully drawn facilities of ZAR 1.0 billion 57 million and US$37 million 22 million.
Ghana had a facility of US$217 million 130 million which was fully drawn.
We believe that we have sufficient funding for our expected working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Further details regarding the maturity, currency and interest rates of the Groups gross borrowings at 31 March 2014 are included in note 21 Borrowings.
Dividends from associates and to non-controlling shareholders Dividends from our associates are generally paid at the discretion of the Board of directors or shareholders of the individual operating and holding companies and we have no rights to receive dividends except where specified within certain of the Groups shareholders agreements.
Similarly, other than ongoing dividend obligations to the KDG minority shareholders should they continue to hold their minority stake, we do not have existing obligations under shareholders agreements to pay dividends to non-controlling interest partners of our subsidiaries or joint ventures.
The amount of dividends received and paid in the year are disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Potential cash outflows from option agreements and similar arrangements In respect of our interest in Vodafone India Limited VIL, Piramal Healthcare Piramal acquired approximately 11% shareholding in VIL from Essar during the 2012 financial year.
In April 2014 Piramal sold its total shareholding in VIL to Vodafone Group.
The combined consideration for these shares and the indirect equity interest held by Analjit Singh and Neelu Analjit Singh completed in March 2014 was 1.0 billion.
Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement governing the disposal of the US Group, including the 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, the Group retains the responsibility for any tax liabilities of the US Group, excluding those relating to the Verizon Wireless partnership, for periods up to the completion of the transaction on 21 February 2014.
Off-balance sheet arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 5.
Please refer to notes 29 and 30 for a discussion of our commitments and contingent liabilities.
Capital and financial risk management This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as theexposure and sensitivity of the Group to credit, liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Accounting policies Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Groups statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Put option arrangements The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the equity of subsidiary companies are accounted for as financial liabilities when such options may only be settled by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of shares in the subsidiary.
The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially recognised at present value within borrowings with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
The charge to equity is recognised separately as written put options over non-controlling interests, adjacent to noncontrolling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries.
The Group recognises the cost of writing such put options, determined as the excess of the present value of the option over any consideration received, as a financing cost.
Such options are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, in order to accrete the liability up to the amount payable under the option at the date at which it first becomes exercisable: the charge arising is recorded as a financing cost.
In the event that the option expires unexercised, the liability is derecognised with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates which it manages using derivative financial instruments.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 146 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 147 Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: a hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges : or a hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency or interest rate risks of firm commitments cash flow hedges : or a hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or if the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Fair value hedges The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Group designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedging is used by the Group to hedge certain exposures to variability in future cash flows.
The portion of gains or losses relating to changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income: gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the hedged item is recognised in the income statement amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity for the hedging instrument are reclassified to the income statement.
However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When hedge accounting is discontinued, any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Net investment hedges Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments which include bonds, commercial paper, cross currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Capital management The following table summarises the capital of the Group: Restated 2014 2013 m m Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 10,134 7,531 Fair value through the income statement held for trading 5,293 6,803 Derivative instruments in designated hedge relationships 955 1,117 Financial liabilities: Fair value through the income statements held for trading 471 1,057 Derivative instruments in designated hedge relationships 410 44 Financial liabilities held at amortised cost 29,201 39,704 Net debt 13,700 25,354 Equity 71,781 72,488 Capital 85,481 97,842 The Groups policy is to borrow centrally using a mixture of long-term and short-term capital market issues and borrowing facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are loaned internally or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board has approved three internal debt protection ratios being: net interest to operating cash flow plus dividends from associates : retained cash flow operating cash flow plus dividends from associates less interest, tax, dividends to non-controlling shareholders and equity dividends to net debt: and operating cash flow plus dividends from associates to net debt.
These internal ratios establish levels of debt that the Group should not exceed other than for relatively short periods of time and are shared with the Groups debt rating agencies being Moodys, FitchRatings and Standard & Poors.
The Group complied with these ratios throughout the financial year and we expect these ratios to be complied with in the next 12 months.
Vodafone Group Plc 148 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Capital and financial risk management continued Financial risk management The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service to the Group for funding, foreign exchange, interest rate management and counterparty risk management.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by the Board, most recently on 27 March 2012.
A treasury risk committee comprising of the Groups Chief Financial Officer, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasury Director and Director of Financial Reporting meets three times a year to review treasury activities and its members receive management information relating to treasury activities on a quarterly basis.
The Groups accounting function, which does not report to the Group Treasury Director, provides regular update reports of treasury activity to the Board.
The Groups internal auditor reviews the internal control environment regularly.
The Group uses a number of derivative instruments for currency and interest rate risk management purposes only that are transacted by specialist treasury personnel.
The Group mitigates banking sector credit risk by the use of collateral support agreements.
Credit risk The Group considers its exposure to credit risk at 31 March to be as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Bank deposits 1,498 1,304 Repurchase agreements 4,799 2,550 Cash held in restricted deposits 524 404 UK government bonds 852 1,076 Money market fund investments 3,648 3,494 Derivative financial instruments 2,443 3,032 Other investments debt and bonds 5,525 3,427 Trade receivables 3,859 3,317 Other receivables 1,546 1,765 Short-term securitised investments 1,019 826 25,713 21,195 The Group invested in UK index linked government bonds on the basis that they generated a floating rate return in excess of LIBOR and are amongst the most creditworthy of investments available.
The Group has a managed investment fund.
This fund holds fixed income sterling securities and the average credit quality is high double A.
Money market investments are in accordance with established internal treasury policies which dictate that an investments long-term credit rating is no lower than mid BBB.
Additionally, the Group invests in AAA unsecured money market mutual funds where the investment is limited to 7.5% of each fund.
The Group has investments in repurchase agreements which are fully collateralised investments.
The collateral is sovereign and supranational debt of major EU countries with at least one AAA rating denominated in euros, sterling and US dollars and can be readily converted to cash.
In the event of any default, ownership of the collateral would revert to the Group.
Detailed below is the value of the collateral held by the Group at 31 March 2014.
Restated 2014 2013 m m Sovereign 4,464 2,081 Supranational 335 469 4,799 2,550 In respect of financial instruments used by the Groups treasury function, the aggregate credit risk the Group may have with one counterparty is limited by i reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty by Moodys, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poors, ii that counterpartys five year credit default swap CDS spread, and iii the sovereign credit rating of that counterpartys principal operating jurisdiction.
Furthermore, collateral support agreements were introduced from the fourth quarter of 2008.
Under collateral support agreements the Groups exposure to a counterparty with whom a collateral support agreement is in place is reduced to the extent that the counterparty must post cash collateral when there is value due to the Group under outstanding derivative contracts that exceeds a contractually agreed threshold amount.
When value is due to the counterparty the Group is required to post collateral on identical terms.
Such cash collateral is adjusted daily as necessary.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 148 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 149 In the event of any default ownership of the cash collateral would revert to the respective holder at that point.
Detailed below is the value of the cash collateral, which is reported within short-term borrowings, held by the Group at 31 March 2014: 2014 2013 m m Cash collateral 1,185 1,151 The majority of the Groups trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days and largely comprise amounts receivable from consumers and business customers.
At 31 March 2014 2,360 million 2013: 1,733 million of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
Totaltrade receivables consisted of 1,219 million 2013: 1,265 million relating to the Europe region, and 280 million 2013: 319 million relating to the AMAP region.
Accounts are monitored by management and provisions for bad and doubtful debts raised where it is deemed appropriate.
The following table presents ageing of receivables that are past due and provisions for doubtful receivables that have been established.
Restated 2014 2013 Gross Less Net Gross Less Net receivables provisions receivables receivables provisions receivables m m m m m m 30 days or less 1,327 356 971 1,460 390 1,070 Between 3160 days 218 27 191 166 14 152 Between 61180 days 187 53 134 222 44 178 Greater than 180 days 516 313 203 609 424 185 2,248 749 1,499 2,457 872 1,585 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited given that the Groups customer base is large and unrelated.
Due to this management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
Amounts charged to administrative expenses duringthe year ended 31 March 2014 were 347 million 2013: 360 million: 2012: 357 million seenote 15 Trade and other receivables.
As discussed in note 30 Contingent liabilities, the Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Trustee of the Vodafone Group UK Pension Scheme in respect of the funding deficit in the scheme.
The security takes the form of an English law pledge over UK index linked government bonds.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2014 the Group had 3.9 billion and US$4.2 billion syndicated committed undrawn bank facilities and US$15 billion and 5 billion commercial paper programmes, supported by the 3.9 billion and US$4.2 billion syndicated committed bank facilities, available to manage its liquidity.
The Group uses commercial paper and bank facilities to manage short-term liquidity and manages long-term liquidity by raising funds in the capital markets.
The 3.9 billion syndicated committed facility has a maturity date of 28 March 2019 with the option to i extend the facility for a further year prior to the first anniversary of the facility and should such extension be exercised, to ii extend the Facility for a further year prior to the second anniversary of the Facility, in both cases if requested by the Company.
The US$4.1 billion syndicated committed facility has a maturity of 9 March 2017: the remaining US$0.1 billion has a maturity of 9 March 2016.
Both facilities have remained undrawn throughout the financial year and since year end and provide liquidity support.
The Group manages liquidity risk on long-term borrowings by maintaining a varied maturity profile with a cap on the level of debt maturing in any one calendar year, therefore minimising refinancing risk.
Long-term borrowings mature between one and 29 years.
Liquidity is reviewed daily on at least a 12 month rolling basis and stress tested on the assumption that all commercial paper outstanding matures and is not reissued.
The Group maintains substantial cash and cash equivalents which at 31 March 2014, amounted to 10,134 million 2013: 7,531 million.
Vodafone Group Plc 150 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Capital and financial risk management continued Market risk Interest rate management Under the Groups interest rate management policy, interest rates on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in euros, US dollars and sterling are maintained on a floating rate basis except for periods up to six years where interest rate fixing has to be undertaken in accordance with treasury policy.
Where assets and liabilities are denominated in other currencies interest rates may also be fixed.
In addition, fixing is undertaken for longer periods when interest rates are statistically low.
For each one hundred basis point fall or rise in market interest rates for all currencies in which the Group had borrowings at 31 March 2014 there would be a reduction or increase in profit before tax by approximately 42 million 2013: increase or reduce by 144 million including mark-tomarket revaluations of interest rate and other derivatives and the potential interest on outstanding tax issues.
There would be no material impact on equity.
Foreign exchange management As Vodafones primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange its share price is quoted in sterling.
Since the sterling share price represents the value of its future multi-currency cash flows, principally in euro, South African rand, Indian rupee and sterling, the Group maintains the currency of debt and interest charges in proportion to its expected future principal multi-currency cash flows and has a policy to hedge external foreign exchange risks on transactions denominated in other currencies above certain fide minimis levels.
As the Groups future cash flows are increasingly likely to be derived from emerging markets it is likely that a greater proportion of debt in emerging market currencies will be drawn.
The disposal of our US Group in February 2014 necessitated a restructuring of the Groups outstanding US dollar debt, which was achieved via i the repayment of certain US dollar debt obligations and ii the use of cross currency swaps to eliminate the US dollar currency risk on certain remaining US dollar debt items.
Prior to the disposal date a significant proportion of the Groups future value was derived from its US assets.
Going forward the Group will only hold US dollar debt to hedge future US dollar receipts, which primarily consist of floating rate notes as issued by Verizon Communications, received as part of the disposal consideration.
At 31 March 2014, 164% of net debt was denominated in currencies other than sterling 96% euro, 37% India rupee 19% US dollar and 12% other while 64% of net debt had been purchased forward in sterling in anticipation of sterling denominated shareholder returns via dividends.
This allows euro, US dollar and other debt to be serviced in proportion to expected future cash flows and therefore provides a partial hedge against income statement translation exposure, as interest costs will be denominated in foreign currencies.
Under the Groups foreign exchange management policy, foreign exchange transaction exposure in Group companies is generally maintained at the lower of 5 million per currency per month or 15 million per currency over a six month period.
The Group recognises foreign exchange movements in equity for the translation of net investment hedging instruments and balances treated as investments in foreign operations.
However, there is no net impact on equity for exchange rate movements on net investment hedging instruments as there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity of the Groups adjusted operating profit to a strengthening of the Groups major currency in which it transacts.
The percentage movement applied to the currency is based on the average movements in the previous three annual reporting periods.
Amounts are calculated by retranslating the operating profit of each entity whose functional currency is euro.
2014 m 1 Euro 3% change Operating profit 60 Note: 1 Operating profit before impairment losses and other income and expense.
At 31 March 2013, sensitivity of the Groups operating profit was analysed for a strengthening of the euro by 3% and the US dollar by 4%, which represented movements of 106 million and 257 million respectively.
Equity risk The Group has equity investments, which are subject to equity risk.
See note 13 Other investments for further details.
