Vodafone Group Plc 104 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation This section describes the critical accounting judgements that management has identified as having a potentially material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements and sets out our significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is generally applicable to a specific note to the accounts, the policy is described within that note.
We have also detailed below the new accounting pronouncements that we will adopt in future years and our current view of the impact they will have on our financial reporting.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
A discussion on the Groups critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed below.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Vodafone Group Plc is registered in England and Wales No.
IFRS requires the directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
In determining and applying accounting policies, directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Groups reported financial position, results or cash flows: it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate.
Management has identified accounting estimates and assumptions relating to revenue, taxation, business combinations and goodwill, joint arrangements, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, post employment benefits, provisions and contingent liabilities and impairment that it considers to be critical due to their impact on the Groups financial statements.
These critical accounting judgements, assumptions and related disclosures have been discussed with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee see page 62.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Revenue recognition Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements where more than one good or service is provided to the customer, customer consideration is allocated between the goods and services using relative fair value principles.
The fair values determined for deliverables may impact the timing of the recognition of revenue.
Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a standalone basis after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
Gross versus net presentation When the Group sells goods or services as a principal, income and payments to suppliers are reported on a gross basis in revenue and operating costs.
If the Group sells goods or services as an agent, revenue and payments to suppliers are recorded in revenue on a net basis, representing the margin earned.
Whether the Group is considered to be the principal or an agent in the transaction depends on analysis by management of both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners: such judgements impact the amount of reported revenue and operating expenses but do not impact reported assets, liabilities or cash flows.
Taxation The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain matters where the tax impact is uncertain until a conclusion is reached with the relevant tax authority or through a legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
Resolving tax issues can take many years as it is not always within the control of the Group and often depends on the efficiency of legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient and suitable taxable profits in the relevant legal entity or tax group against which to utilise the assets in the future.
Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits, which are estimated using the latest available profit forecasts.
Prior to recording deferred tax assets for tax losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting estimation and judgement include the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses in Luxembourg, Germany, India, and Turkey, capital allowances in the United Kingdom and the tax liability on the rationalisation and re-organisation of the Group prior to the disposal of our US group, whose principal asset was its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless VZW.
See note 6 Taxation to the consolidated financial statements.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 104 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 105 Business combinations and goodwill When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired then the difference is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets discussed below and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
On transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business combinations, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to business combinations completed by the Group from incorporation through to 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS amounted to 78,753 million.
If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations retrospectively it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill, licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition.
Joint arrangements The Group participates in a number of joint arrangements where control of the arrangement is shared with one or more other parties.
A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or as a joint venture, depending on managements assessment of the legal form and substance of the arrangement.
The classification can have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis, whereas the Groups investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown within single line items in the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement respectively.
See note 12 Investments in associates and joint ventures to the consolidated financial statements.
Finite lived intangible assets Other intangible assets include amounts spent by the Group acquiring licences and spectrum, customer bases and brands and the costs of purchasing and developing computer software.
Where intangible assets are acquired through business combinations and no active market for the assets exists, the fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset.
Estimates relating to the future cash flows and discount rates used may have a material effect on the reported amounts of finite lived intangible assets.
Estimation of useful life The useful life over which intangible assets are amortised depends on managements estimate of the period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
Reducing the useful life will increase the amortisation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Useful lives are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is discussed below.
Licences and spectrum fees The estimated useful life is generally the term of the licence unless there is a presumption of renewal at negligible cost: this is adjusted if necessary, for example taking into account the impact of any expected changes in technology.
Customer bases The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Capitalised software For computer software, the useful life is based on managements view, considering historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their life such as changes in technology.
The useful life will not exceed the duration of a licence.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment represents 18.8% 2013: 12.7% of the Groups total assets: estimates and assumptions made may have a material impact on their carrying value and related depreciation charge.
See note 11 Property, plant and equipment for further details.
Estimation of useful life The depreciation charge for an asset is derived using estimates of its expected useful life and expected residual value, which are reviewed annually.
Increasing an assets expected life or residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Management determines the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on experience with similar assets and taking into account other relevant factors such as any expected changes in technology.
The useful life of network infrastructure is assumed not to exceed the duration of related operating licences unless there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for the asset.
Post employment benefits Management judgement is exercised when determining the Groups liabilities and expenses arising for defined benefit pension schemes.
Management is required to make assumptions regarding future rates of inflation, salary increases, discount rates and longevity of members, each of which may have a material impact on the defined benefit obligations that are recorded.
Sensitivity analysis is provided for these assumptions in note 26 Post employment benefits to the consolidated financial statements.
Vodafone Group Plc 106 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 30 Contingent liabilities to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary to assess the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of any financial settlement.
The inherent uncertainty of such matters means that actual losses may materially differ from estimates.
Impairment reviews IFRS requires management to perform impairment tests annually for indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing requires management to judge whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows that they generate.
Calculating the net present value of the future cash flows requires assumptions to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters including managements expectations of: a growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation: a timing and amount of future capital expenditure: a long-term growth rates: and a appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Management prepares formal five year forecasts for the Groups operations, which are used to estimate their value in use.
In certain developing markets ten year forecasts are used if it is considered that the fifth year of a forecast is not indicative of expected long-term future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For operations where five year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: a the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and a the long-term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten estimated by management.
For operations where ten year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: a the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and a the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence reported assets and profits or losses.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis is included in note 4 Impairment losses to the consolidated financial statements.
Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Accounting convention The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries controlled by the Company see note 32 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations that are subject to joint control see note 12 Investments in associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the parent companys functional currency and the presentation currency of the Group.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the respective functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences are recognised in the income statement and other changes in carrying amount are recognised inequity.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified as available-for-sale, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in equity.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 106 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 107 For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are expressed in sterling using exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period date.
Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative amount previously recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The net foreign exchange loss recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2014 is 1,688 million 31 March 2013: 117 million loss: 2012: 703 million gain.
The net losses and net gains are recorded within operating profit 2014: 16 million charge: 2013: 21 million charge: 2012: 33 million charge, other income and expense and non-operating income and expense 2014: 1,493 million charge: 2013: 1 million charge: 2012: 681 million credit, investment and financing income 2014: 180 million charge: 2013: 91 million charge: 2012: 55 million credit and income tax expense 2014: 1 million credit: 2013: 4 million charge: 2012: nil.
The foreign exchange gains and losses included within other income and expense and non-operating income and expense arise on the disposal of interests in joint ventures, associates and investments from the recycling of foreign exchange gains previously recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
New accounting pronouncements adopted On 1 April 2013 the Group adopted new accounting policies where necessary to comply with amendments to IFRS.
Accounting pronouncements considered by the Group as significant on adoption are: a Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits, which requires revised accounting and disclosures for defined benefit pension schemes, including a different measurement basis for asset returns, replacing the expected return on plan assets and interest cost currently recorded in the consolidated income statement with net interest.
This results in a revised allocation of costs between the income statement and other comprehensive income.
The amendments also include a revised definition of shortand long-term benefits to employees and revised criteria for the recognition of termination benefits.
The consolidated financial statements have been restated on the adoption of the amendments to IAS 19 2013: reduced profit for the year by 16 million, 2012: 9 million.
a Changes to the standards governing the accounting for subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates, including the introduction of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and amendments to IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
IFRS 11 generally requires interests in jointly controlled entities to be recorded using the equity method, which is consistent with the accounting treatment applied to investments in associates.
Under IFRS 11, the Groups principal joint arrangements, excluding Cornerstone Telecommunications Infrastructure Limited see note 12 Investments in associates and joint ventures, are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting rather than proportionate consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements have been restated on the adoption of IFRS 11: the other changes to the standards governing the accounting for subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates do not have a material impact on the Group.
Adoption on 1 April 2013 is considered to be early adoption for the purposes of complying with IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
In addition, during the year the Group has early-adopted amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, relating to recoverable amounts disclosures, which corrects a previous amendment.
Other IFRS changes adopted on 1 April 2013, including the adoption of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, have no material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group.
The previously reported comparative periods have been restated in the consolidated financial statements for the amendments to IAS 19 and IFRS 11.
The impact on key financial information is detailed in the following tables: the impact on earnings per share is immaterial.
2013 2012 Discontinued Discontinued 1 1 As reported Adjustments operations Restated As reported Adjustments operations Restated m m m m m m m m Consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income Revenue 44,445 6,404 38,041 46,417 7,596 38,821 Gross profit 13,940 2,466 11,474 14,871 3,251 11,620 Share of results of equity accounted associates and joint ventures 6,477 520 6,422 575 4,963 1,033 4,867 1,129 Operating profit loss 4,728 508 6,422 2,202 11,187 702 4,867 5,618 Profit loss before tax 3,255 372 6,366 3,483 9,549 561 4,844 4,144 Profit loss for the financial year from continuing operations 673 16 4,616 3,959 7,003 9 3,555 3,439 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 4,616 4,616 3,555 3,555 Other comprehensive income expense 76 16 92 4,653 9 4,644 Total comprehensive income 749 749 2,350 2,350 Note: 1 Adjustments to disclose discontinued operations as a result of the disposal of the US Group, whose principal asset was its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless.
See note 7 Discontinued operations for further details.
Vodafone Group Plc 108 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued 2013 2012 As reported Adjustments Restated As reported Adjustments Restated m m m m m m Consolidated statement of financial position Non-current assets 119,411 2,736 116,675 119,551 3,132 116,419 Current assets 23,287 1,638 21,649 20,025 994 19,031 Total assets 142,698 4,374 138,324 139,576 4,126 135,450 Total equity 72,488 72,488 78,202 78,202 Non-current liabilities 38,986 1,519 37,467 37,349 1,724 35,625 Current liabilities 31,224 2,855 28,369 24,025 2,402 21,623 Total equity and liabilities 142,698 4,374 138,324 139,576 4,126 135,450 Consolidated statement of cash flows Net cash flow from operating activities 10,694 1,870 8,824 12,755 2,458 10,297 Net cash flow from investing activities 7,398 1,652 5,746 3,843 2,738 6,581 Net cash flow from financing activities 2,956 213 2,743 15,369 300 15,669 Net cash flow 340 5 335 1,229 20 1,209 New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on 1 April 2014 The following pronouncements which are potentially relevant to the Group have been issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have been endorsed for use in the EU unless otherwise stated: a Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
a Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting.
a Improvements to IFRS 2010 to 2012 cycle, elements are effective variously from 1 July 2014 and for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
All the amendments will be adopted by the Group from 1 April 2014, except an amendment to IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which will be adopted on 1 April 2014.
These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
a IFRIC 21, Levies, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
For periods commencing on or after 1 April 2014, the Groups financial reporting will be presented in accordance with the new standards above which are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group.
New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on or after 1 April 2015 On 1 April 2015 the Group will adopt Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions and Improvements to IFRS 20112013 Cycle, which are both effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IFRS 11 and Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Amendment to IAS 16 and IAS 38, which are effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2016, will be adopted by the Group on 1 April 2016.
Phase I of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in November 2009 and has subsequently been updated and amended.
The effective date of the standard is to be confirmed and has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The standard introduces changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets, removes the restriction on electing to measure certain financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement from initial recognition and requires changes to the presentation of gains and losses relating to fair value changes.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above new pronouncements on its results, financial position and cash flows.
None of the new pronouncements discussed above have been endorsed for use in the EU.
