Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 77 22.
Financial instruments Categories of financial instruments Carrying value m 2014 2013 Financial assets 1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1 2 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 93 87 Financial liabilities Finance lease obligations 3 Amortised cost 296 290 1 All derivatives are categorised as Level 2 under the requirements of IFRS 13.
The fair value measurements relating to the instruments are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
2 Included within loans and receivables are trade and other receivables, current tax assets and cash and cash equivalents.
3 Included within amortised cost are trade and other payables, current tax liabilities, borrowings and other non-current liabilities.
Comparison of carrying values and fair values There were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
Risk management The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, and to ensure liquidity is available to meet the foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Groups Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
Capital risk The Groups objectives with respect to managing capital defined as net debt funds plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to optimise returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
In managing the Groups capital levels the Board regularly monitors the level of debt in the business, the working capital requirements, forecast financing and investing cash flows.
Based on this analysis, the Board determines the appropriate return to investors while ensuring sufficient capital is retained in the business to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy and expects that, over time, dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised tax basis.
As at 16 October 2014 the Group has in place a 93.3m committed multi-currency revolving credit facility, carrying certain financial covenants which have been met throughout the period.
The covenants, tested half-yearly, are based on fixed charges cover and net borrowings.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has a five year committed multi-currency revolving credit facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Group has a policy of pooling cash flows in order to optimise the return on surplus cash and also to utilise cash within the Group to reduce the costs of external short-term funding.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows of the Groups financial liabilities: Due within Due between Due between Due over 2014 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 12 12 Trade and other payables 261 1 262 Total cash flows 273 1 274 Due within Due between Due between Due over 2013 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 268 268 Total cash flows 268 268 WH Smith PLC 78 Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes to the accounts 22.
Financial instruments continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the Group in relation to lending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables and bank balances and cash.
The Group has credit risk attributable to its trade and other receivables including a number of sale or return contracts with suppliers.
The amounts included in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Group has low retail credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is considered to be low, as the Board approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
These limits are based on a combination of shortterm credit ratings of P-2 P-1 and long-term ratings of Baa2 or better.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold collateral over any of these financial assets.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 31 August 2014, the Group had drawn down 12m 2013: nil from its committed revolving credit facility.
The Group draws down on its facility, but does not view any draw down as long-term in nature and therefore does not enter into interest rate derivatives to mitigate this risk.
Foreign currency risk Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally to the US dollar, euro and Australian dollar.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
The hedging instruments have been used to hedge purchases in US dollars and to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the USD GBP exchange rates.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 31 August 2014, the Group had no material un-hedged currency exposures.
The Groups euro and Australian dollar exposure is principally operational and arises mainly through the operation of retail stores in France, Ireland and Australia.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and profit and loss translation exposure.
The fair value of cash flow hedges recognised on the balance sheet within derivative assets liabilities is shown below: m 2014 2013 Fair value of derivative assets 1 At 31 August 2014, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Group has committed is US$29m 2013: US$28m.
These instruments will be used to hedge cash flows occurring within up to two years of the balance sheet date.
Gains totalling nil 2013: nil have been transferred to both the income statement and inventories in respect of contracts that matured during the year ended 31 August 2014.
In the year to 31 August 2014, the fair value loss on the Groups currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounted to 1m 2013: 1m gain.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Sensitivity analysis as at 31 August 2014 Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK interest rates, and USD GBP, EUR GBP and AUD GBP exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: Exchange rate fluctuations on currency derivatives that form part of an effective cash flow hedge relationship affect the hedging reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging derivatives.
Group debt and hedging activities remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 August 2013 and 31 August 2014 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
