Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 49 Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Opinion on financial statements of WH Smith PLC In our opinion: preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 August 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statement on page 47 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern the parent company financial statements have been properly basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted is appropriate: and Accounting Practice: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the concern.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated to continue as a going concern.
and parent company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the related notes 1 to 27 to the Consolidated financial Our assessment of risks of material misstatement statements and the related notes 1 to 9 to the Parent Company The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
engagement team: Nature of risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Inventory Assessing net realisable value is an area of significant judgement, We have assessed the appropriateness of the inventory provision by with specific consideration in relation to the estimate of provision for initially understanding the methodology and then challenging slow-moving and obsolete inventory.
management on this methodology with reference to the historical accuracy of the provision against actual losses.
We assessed the accuracy of the application of the provisioning methodology by recalculation, assessing actual and forecast sales of provisioned inventory lines to check that the provision percentage applied is appropriate and in line with the documented provisioning policy and inventory ageing.
We understood and tested the interface between the IT systems in place over inventory and the inventory provisioning system to satisfy ourselves as to the accuracy and integrity of the data.
Property The Group has an extensive and diverse property portfolio.
As a We assessed the appropriateness and movement of existing result, there are several technically complex areas or judgemental provisions based on our understanding of any developments in the aspects to consider when accounting for property and leases across period that would be expected to impact on the amounts recognised the Group, including: and through recalculation.
onerous lease and other property related provisions for nonIn respect of provisions recognised in the year we challenged the trading stores and other property across the Group: nature and amount of the provisions recognised, using our internal impairments for loss making stores: and property specialists where appropriate to consider significant the recognition of income from property related transactions.
We tested the basis adopted by management for determining whether an onerous lease or store impairment exists.
This involved considering the assumptions used by management in estimating impairments for both loss-making stores and store closures and challenging the timings and recognition of associated provisions.
We assessed each property transaction completed in the period by reviewing the associated contract and challenging that the income generated from transactions was appropriately recognised.
