Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 57 Notes to the accounts 31 August 2013 1.
Accounting policies Previously Impact of IAS 19 a Basis of preparation m reported Revised Restated The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in Earnings per share accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Basic 71.3p 4.9 p 66.4p Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Diluted 68.5p 4.7 p 63.8p These are the standards, subsequent amendments and related Headline earnings per share interpretations issued and adopted by the International Accounting Basic 69.7p 0.8 p 68.9p Standards Board IASB that have been endorsed by the European Diluted 66.9p 0.8 p 66.1p Union at the year end.
m The consolidated Group financial statements have also been Statement of comprehensive income prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Profit after tax 87 6 81 Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Actuarial losses gains 5 5 going concern basis as explained on page 47 of the Directors report.
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 1 New standards Other items of The Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations comprehensive income 1 1 which became mandatory during the current financial year.
With the Total comprehensive income 82 82 exception of IAS 19, the impact of which is outlined below, these changes have had no material impact on the Groups financial There is no impact on net funds, cash flows including tax payments statements: or covenants.
IAS 19 2011 Employee Benefits At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Group financial Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have Disclosures Offsetting Financial not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not Assets and Financial Liabilities yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 27 2011 Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans IAS 28 2011 Investments in Associates and Annual Improvements 2009-2011 issued May 2012 Joint Ventures IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial IAS 19 Revised Statements In June 2011 the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 Revised.
The revised standard is effective for the IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Group for the first time during the year ended 31 August 2014.
The IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in impact on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is to replace Other Entities the interest expense on retirement benefit obligations and the Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee expected return on plan assets with a single net interest amount Contributions that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net retirement Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and benefit surplus or deficit.
In addition, the administration costs of the Financial Liabilities pension scheme, previously charged against the expected return on Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures plan assets, are now charged within operating costs.
The impact of for Non-Financial Assets the amendment for the year ended 31 August 2014 has been to reduce profit before tax by 6m and reduce basic and diluted EPS by Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and 3.4p and 3.3p respectively Headline basic and diluted EPS have Continuation of Hedge Accounting been increased by 1.7p.
Prior year comparatives have been restated IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in accordance with IAS 8, and the impact of these restatements is IFRS 15 Revenue set out below.
IFRIC 21 Levies 31 August 2013 Annual improvements 2010-2012 Previously Impact of IAS 19 Annual improvements 2011-2013 m reported Revised Restated Headline profit before tax 106 106 The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future years will have no material impact on the Non-cash income statement Groups financial statements, except that IFRS 9 may impact on the income charge for pensions 2 5 3 measurement and disclosure of financial instruments and IFRS 15 Profit before tax 108 5 103 may impact on the timing of recognition of revenue.
Beyond the Income tax expense 21 1 22 information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable Profit after tax 87 6 81 estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
WH Smith PLC 58 Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes to the accounts 1.
Accounting policies continued when the goods are delivered to the customer and title has passed.
Revenue from gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group is Accounting convention recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost basis Franchise and concession fees are recognised in revenue based of accounting.
The financial information is rounded to the nearest on the terms of the contracts.
million, except where otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout both Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised within years, are set out below.
cost of sales as they are earned.
The accrued value at the reporting date is included in prepayments and accrued income.
Basis of consolidation c Retirement benefit costs The consolidated Group financial statements incorporate Payments to the WH Smith Group defined contribution pension the financial statements of WH Smith PLC and all its subsidiaries schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement up to the year end date.
Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally The cost of providing benefits for the main defined benefit scheme, accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting WHSmith Pension Trust, and the United News Shops Retirement rights so to obtain benefits from its activities.
Benefits Scheme are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out at the balance Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially sheet date.
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
statement in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet exceeds the cost of the business combination, after taking into represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as account recognised goodwill, the excess is immediately recognised adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the in the income statement.
fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from the calculation The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Where statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of the Group is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the control, if appropriate.
pension scheme above the accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation is recognised.
Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial d Leasing year are included in the financial statements up to the effective date Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the of disposal.
Where a business component representing a separate lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership major line of business is disposed of, or classified as held for sale, to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
it is classified as a discontinued operation.
The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the face of the income statement, separate from the other results of Group at their fair value determined at the inception of the lease the Group.
or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligations Non GAAP measures so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised directly the understanding of the performance of the business.
The Group in the income statement.
believes that High Street and Travel trading profit, Group profit from Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are charged trading operations, Headline Group profit before tax, Headline to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the earnings per share, Fixed charges cover and Free cash flow provide relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to useful information to users of the financial statements.
The terms enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be over the lease term.
The Group has a number of lease comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other arrangements in which the rent payable is contingent on revenue.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior Contingent rentals payable, based on store revenues, are accrued in to, GAAP measures.
b Revenue e Intangible assets Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Business combinations or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase services to customers, together with commission and fee income method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of on concession and franchise arrangements.
Revenue excludes the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities discounts, estimated returns, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control, of the acquiree.
Costs directly attributable Revenue on store sales of goods and concession sales is recognised to the business combination are recognised in the income when goods are sold to the customer.
Internet sales are recognised Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 59 statement in the period they are incurred.
The cost of a business Freehold properties over 20 years combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the Short-leasehold properties shorter of the lease period and the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that estimated remaining economic life satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
In-store fixtures and fittings up to ten years The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively Equipment and vehicles eight to ten years obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if Computer equipment up to five years they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 The residual values of property, plant and equipment are and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of re-assessed on an annual basis.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their Goodwill expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
consideration over the net fair value of identifiable assets and At each balance sheet date, property, plant and equipment liabilities acquired.
is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cashpre-tax cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit or fair value, generating units that have benefited from the acquisition.
The cashless costs to sell, if higher.
Any impairment in value is charged to the generating units are Travel and High Street.
The carrying value of income statement in the period in which it occurs.
goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable g Inventories amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying lower of cost or net realisable value.
Consignment stocks are not amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other included within stocks held by the Group.
Inventories are valued assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any impairment is recognised using a weighted average cost method.
immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Cost is calculated to include, where applicable, duties, handling, transport and directly attributable costs in bringing the inventories On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is based included in the determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
on estimated normal selling prices less further costs expected to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Cost of inventories includes the Other intangible assets transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow The costs of acquiring and developing software that is not integral to hedges relating to purchases.
the related hardware is capitalised separately as an intangible asset.
These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation Provisions are made for obsolescence, markdown and shrinkage.
h Provisions Amortisation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, and a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event is recorded in Distribution costs.
The estimated lives are usually a and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be period of up to five years.
Software assets held under finance leases required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect is material, lease.
the provision is determined by discounting the expected future Other intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their cash flows at the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
useful life, and the amortisation is recorded in Administrative expenses, unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an Onerous contracts property provisions indefinite life.
The Groups property provisions represent the present value of future net lease obligations and related costs of leasehold property All intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with net of estimated sublease income and adjusted for certain risk IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the factors where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be carrying value may not be recoverable.
The periodic unwinding of the discount is treated as an imputed interest charge and is disclosed in Note 8 f Property, plant and equipment as unwinding of discount on provisions.
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets previously revalued have been retained at their book amount.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, with the annual rates applicable to the principal categories being: WH Smith PLC 60 Annual report and accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes to the accounts 1.
Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at i Foreign currencies bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at of three months or less.
the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign Financial liabilities and equity currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual included in the income statement for the period.
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see overleaf for details of Bank borrowings the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured financial instruments.
at fair value being proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas interest rate method recorded as the proceeds received, net of operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated settlement or redemptions and direct issue costs are accounted for into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange on an accruals basis and taken to the income statement using the differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying value to the Groups translation reserve.
of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
j Taxation The tax expense included in the income statement comprises Trade payables current and deferred tax.
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and Current tax is the expected tax payable based on the taxable are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective profit for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted interest rate method.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Equity instruments Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the net of direct issue costs.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable The Group uses certain derivative financial instruments to reduce temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against The Group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets for speculative purposes.
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in business are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
immediately in the income statement.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or is settled or the asset is realised.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited income statement in the same period in which the hedged item directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also affects net income.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value k Financial instruments of a recognised asset or liability, changes in fair value of the hedging Trade receivables instrument are recognised in profit or loss at the same time that Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition, do not carry the recognised asset or liability that is being hedged is adjusted any interest and are stated at their fair value and are subsequently for movements in the hedged risk and that adjustment is also measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that amounts are recognised in the income statement when there is do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income evidence that the asset is impaired.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 61 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument The most critical accounting policies in determining the financial expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for condition and results of the Group are those requiring the greatest hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the degree of subjective or complex judgement.
These relate to hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until retirement benefit obligations, valuation of goodwill and acquired the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no intangible assets, onerous lease costs, inventory valuation longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised and taxation.
in equity is transferred to the net profit or loss for the period.
Retirement benefit obligation Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and requirement of IAS 19, Retirement Benefit Obligations.
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains The calculations include a number of judgements and estimations or losses reported in the income statement.
in respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and l Share schemes life expectancy, amongst others.
Changes in these assumptions WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust can have a significant effect on the value of the retirement The shares held by the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust are benefit obligation.
valued at the historical cost of the shares acquired.
They are deducted in arriving at shareholders funds and are presented Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as an other reserve.
impairment reviews The Group is required to review goodwill annually to determine Share-based payments if any impairment has occurred.
Value-in-use calculations require Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees discount rates.
render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed equity settled transactions.
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for the date of grant.
The fair value is calculated using an appropriate impairment is conducted the recoverable amount of an asset or option pricing model.
The fair value is expensed to the income a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-in-use statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the Inventory valuation portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value fair value determined at each balance sheet date, with any changes which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods in fair value recognised in the profit or loss for the year.
to customers in the future.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the m Dividends period in which the sale is made.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Provisions Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are Provisions have been estimated for taxation, onerous leases and approved and paid.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the time of the balance sheet date, n Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation the actual liability being dependent on future events such as uncertainty economic environment and marketplace demand.
Expectations will The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any accepted accounting principles requires management to make difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Significant items subject to such assumption and estimate include the useful economic life of assets: the measurement and recognition of provisions: the recognition of deferred tax assets: the liabilities for potential corporation tax: and valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
Actual results could differ from these estimates and any subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect on income at the time such updated information becomes available.
