Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 83 25.
Related party transactions Transactions between businesses within this Group which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Directors Remuneration report.
000 2014 2013 Short-term employee benefits 2,393 3,480 Post-employment benefits 209 175 Share-based payments 1,805 3,377 4,407 7,032 There are no other transactions with directors.
Events after the balance sheet date As at 13 October 2014, the Company has repurchased a further 734,254 million of its own shares in the open market as part of the Companys share buyback programme.
On 16 October 2014, the Company announced its intention to return up to 50m of cash to shareholders through a rolling share buyback programme.
Since the balance sheet date the Trustees of the WHSmith Pension Trust have completed a full actuarial valuation of the scheme, as at 31 March 2014, and the Company has agreed a revised schedule of contributions with the Trustees.
Further information is given in Note 4.
Principal companies The principal companies included within the financial statements, which are all wholly-owned, are disclosed below.
A schedule of interests in all subsidiary undertakings is filed with the Annual Return.
Name Country of incorporation registration WH Smith PLC England and Wales WH Smith Retail Holdings Limited England and Wales WH Smith High Street Holdings Limited England and Wales WH Smith Travel Holdings Limited England and Wales WH Smith High Street Limited England and Wales WH Smith Travel Limited England and Wales WH Smith Hospitals Holdings Limited formerly UNS Group Limited England and Wales WH Smith Hospitals Limited formerly UNS Hospitals Limited England and Wales Spilt Ink Studio Limited England and Wales WH Smith Australia Limited Australia WH Smith France S. A.
S France WH Smith Ireland Limited Ireland WH Smith Jersey Limited Jersey WH Smith Asia Limited Hong Kong The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the financial statements.
