Strategic report 123 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 31.
Retirement benefit schemes The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the scheme through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are diversified to reduce the impact of the failure of any single investment on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
Alongside the risk assessment above, the Group has agreed a deficit recovery plan with the Trustees aimed at eliminating the deficit over the period to 2019.
The weighted average duration of the schemes defined benefit obligation as at 30 December 2014 is 23 years 31 December 2013: 21 years.
There were no plan amendments, curtailments or settlements during the period.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Trading transactions Associate During the period the Group made purchases of 48.3m 52 weeks ended 31 December 2013: 42.5m from Satellite Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Groups associated undertaking, SIS.
At 30 December 2014 the amount receivable from Satellite Information Services Limited by the Group was nil 31 December 2013: nil.
Purchases were made at market price.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits including salaries 2.0 1.9 Post-employment benefits employers contribution 0.2 Share-based payments IFRS 2 charges 1.3 2.4 3.5 4.3 The disclosures above include c86,000 received by directors in respect of dividends on the Companys ordinary shares period to 31 December 2013: c60,000.
The values presented above include share-based payments measured in accordance with IFRS 2.
This is a different basis from that used for the presentation in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Other than the inclusion of dividends and the basis of measurement of share-based payments, all values above are presented on a consistent basis with those disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Pension schemes The pension schemes of the Group are related parties.
Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes are disclosed in note 31.
Contingent liabilities The Group has potential obligations in respect of legal action following the 2012 acquisition of businesses in Nevada, USA.
The Group does not expect a material adverse outcome, but there can be no assurance that the results of this legal action will not have a material impact upon the Groups cash flows or results.
The value and timing of possible obligations in this regard are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and cannot be reliably measured.
Accordingly, no amounts are provided.
