Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 83 GENERAL INFORMATION COMPANY INFORMATION IAS 1 AMENDMENT PRESENTATION OFITEMS Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company OFOTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 As a result of the amendments to IAS 1, the Group has modified the Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United presentation of items of other comprehensive income in order to present Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, separately items that would be reclassified to profit or loss in the future Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
from those that would not be.
Comparative information has been represented accordingly.
BASIS OF PREPARATION IFRS 13 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value 2 February 2014 2013: 53 weeks ended 3 February 2013 in accordance and making disclosures about fair value measurement, when such with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs.
The standard Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC had no impact on the measurement of the Groups assets and liabilities, as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the but has introduced some new disclosures.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair IFRS and IFRIC are issued by the International Accounting Standards value measurement guidance prospectively and has not provided any Board the IASB and must be adopted into European Union law, comparative information for new disclosures.
referred to as endorsement, before they become mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
NEW IFRS AND AMENDMENTS TO IAS The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
ANDINTERPRETATIONS The Directors assessment of going concern has been considered within There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB the Corporate governance report on page 55. that are effective for financial statements after this reporting period.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the The application of these standards and interpretations, which include nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to IFRSs 10 to 12, is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Groups disclose the amounts up to two decimal places.
They are drawn up on the financial statements.
historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting policies set out within these financial statements.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Groups accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been Subsidiaries are entities that the Group controls and are included in the applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Groups consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating ACCOUNTING REFERENCE DATE policies of an investee so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday falling between financial statements of subsidiaries used in the consolidation are 29 January and 4 February each year.
prepared for the same reporting period as the parent Company and are The following amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time based on consistent accounting policies.
Intra-group balances and any for the financial period ended 2 February 2014: unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
IAS 19 2011 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS As a result of IAS 19 2011, the Group has changed its accounting policy FOREIGN CURRENCIES with respect to the basis for determining the income or expense related Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange to the net pension liability.
Under IAS 19 2011, the Group determines the at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary net interest expense or income for the period on the net pension liability assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are or asset by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for pension liability or asset at the beginning of the annual period, taking the period.
into account any changes in the net pension liability or asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Previously, the CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Group determined interest income on plan assets based on their long ANDESTIMATES term rate of return.
The judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts The effect of this change in the 52 weeks ending 2 February 2014 is recognised in these financial statements, and sources of estimation to reduce net interest income on the net pension liability by 17m uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustment 3 February 2013: 5m and increase administration costs in operating loss to carrying amounts in the next financial year, are described within the by 3m 3 February 2013: 2m.
Actuarial gains in other comprehensive Corporate governance report on page 56.
Further detail on each of these income are reduced by 20m 3 February 2013: actuarial losses increased matters can be found within notes 1.4, 3.2, 3.3 and 5.4. by 3m.
There is no effect on the net pension liability in the balance sheet.
The effect on basic earnings per share for the 52 weeks ending 2 February 2014 is a reduction of 0.9 pence 2013: 0.3 pence.
The results for the 53 weeks ended 3 February 2013 have not been restated for the change described above because the change is immaterial to the Groups results in that comparative period.
