Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Financial statements 114 WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC  52 weeks ended 2 February 2014 11 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other operating income Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly related Basis of preparation to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises rental incomes These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and income generated from recycling of packaging.
Rental income arising the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis to the date historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies of the next rent review.
set out below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006.
Investments The Directors have been advised that certain distributions including Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures share repurchases made in the years ended 3 February 2013 and Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated 2 February 2014 have been made without complying fully with the at cost less provision for impairment.
relevant requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
A course of action is Investments in equity instruments being followed to remedy this position without the Company pursuing All equity instruments are held for long term investment and are any rights that it may have to seek repayments of the relevant funds.
measured at fair value, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Further details of this course of action will be provided to shareholders in Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, due course for approval.
the investment will be recognised at cost less accumulated impairment The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in losses in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments: recognition dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the and measurement.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit Companys financial statements.
Accounting reference date Tangible assets The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and material Turnover recognition residual values.
Turnover comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the Companys activities.
It Depreciation is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates that are transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable certainty of recovery of the calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible fixed assets consideration and the amount of revenue, associated costs and possible on a straight-line basis.
The rates applied are: return of goods can be estimated reliably.
Freehold land 0% Sale of goods in-store and online, and fuel Sale of goods in-store and online is recorded net of value added tax, Freehold buildings 2.5% returns, staff discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element of multiLeasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of value added tax and period and 2.5% Morrisons Miles award points.
Revenue is recognised when transactions Plant, equipment, are completed in-store, or, in the case of food online, when goods are fixtures and vehicles 10% to 33% accepted by the customer on delivery.
Assets under construction 0% Other sales Other revenue includes income from concessions and commissions based Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when events on the terms of the contract.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not recognised as turnover, other than the related commission.
Sales are not be recoverable.
This is performed for each income generating unit, recorded net of value added tax and intra-group transactions.
which in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible impairment, then a test is performed on the Cost of sales asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including manufacturing, An impaired asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which is warehouse and transportation costs.
Store depreciation, store overheads the higher of value in use or its net realisable value.
In assessing value in and store-based employee costs are also allocated to cost of sales.
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments Supplier income of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If there is Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred to as indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is recognised as a impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the impairment, but only deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis based on the expected to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying entitlement that has been earned up to the balance sheet date for each amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been relevant supplier contract.
The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts recognised for the asset.
receivable at period end are included within prepayments and accrued income.
Where amounts received are in the expectation of future business, these are recognised in the income statement in line with that future business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 115 11 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Capital management The capital management policy of the Company is consistent with that Intangible assets of the Group set out in note 6.7.
Software development costs Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable Borrowing costs software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria as laid All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and loss out in IAS 38 Intangible assets are recognised as intangible assets.
account on an accruals basis, except for interest costs that are directly attributable to the construction of buildings and other qualifying assets Direct costs include consultancy costs, the employment costs of which are capitalised and included within the initial cost of the asset.
internal software developers and borrowing costs.
All other software Capitalisation commences when both expenditure on the asset and development and maintenance costs are recognised as an expense when borrowing costs are being incurred, and necessary activities to prepare incurred.
Software development assets are held at historical cost less the asset for use are in progress.
In the case of new stores, this is accumulated amortisation and impairment, and are amortised over their generally once planning permission has been obtained.
Capitalisation estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight-line basis.
ceases when the asset is ready for use.
Interest is capitalised at the effective rate incurred on borrowings before taxation of 5% 2013: 5%.
Financial instruments Trade and other debtors Pension costs Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which is A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the generally equal to face value, and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and provides Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will no guarantee as to the quantum of retirement benefits that those not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge being recognised in contributions will ultimately purchase.
A defined benefit scheme is the profit and loss account.
Balances are written off when the probability one that is not a defined contribution scheme.
of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Pension scheme assets are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme Cash and cash equivalents obligations are an estimate of the amount required to pay the benefits Cash and cash equivalents includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank that employees have earned in exchange for current and past service, overdrafts.
In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts that do not have a right assessed and discounted to present value using the assumptions shown of offset are presented within current liabilities.
The net pension liability or asset recognised in the Groups balance sheet is the net of the schemes assets and obligations, which Trade and other creditors are calculated separately for each scheme.
The Group has a right to Trade and other creditors are initially stated at fair value, which is recognise a net pension asset, should one arise, in respect of each of the generally equal to face value, and subsequently held at amortised cost.
The operating and financing costs of the scheme are recognised Borrowings separately in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight-line basis over their transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, any difference vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in between the redemption value and the initial carrying amount is the STRGL.
recognised in profit for the period over the period of the borrowings on A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the an effective interest rate basis.
Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated net of deferred Derivative financial instruments tax.
The Company also operated a stakeholder pension scheme and Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, and contributions were charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
are remeasured at fair value through profit or loss, except where the Foreign currencies derivative qualifies for hedge accounting.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange Cash ow hedges at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary A cash flow hedge mitigates the Groups exposure to variability in cash assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are flows attributable either to a recognised asset or liability or a highly retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and probable forecasted transaction.
The Group has cross-currency swaps losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account and energy price contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The effective part of any movement in the fair value of the derivative is Provisions recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal or reserve within equity.
Ineffectiveness is immediately recognised in profit constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it is probable for the period, energy price contracts within cost of sales and crossthat it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the currency swaps within finance income costs.
Cumulative gains or losses obligation from the Company, and where it can be reliably measured.
on derivatives held in the hedging reserve are reclassified into profit for For onerous leases, this is when the rent payable exceeds rent receivable: the period when the transaction occurs.
for petrol filling station decommissioning costs when the filling station Fair value hedges is first constructed and for dilapidations on leased buildings, when the A fair value hedge mitigates the Groups exposure to changes in fair value lease is entered into.
The amounts provided are based on the Groups of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment.
The change in FV best estimate of the likely committed outflow.
Where material, these of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk is estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
recognised in profit for the period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Financial statements 116 WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC  52 weeks ended 2 February 2014 11 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Share-based payments The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Leases employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value of Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other leases on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding are classified as finance leases.
This is based on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes into account movement Lessor accounting operating leases of non-market conditions, being service conditions and financial Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are recorded as performance, if relevant.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated stochastic option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects of is recognised on a straight-line basis to the date of the next rent review.
non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Lessee accounting operating leases The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight-line calculated, based on an appropriate apportionment and recharged basis over the life of the lease.
Lessee accounting finance leases Financial contracts The lower of the fair value and the present value, calculated using the Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the interest rate implicit in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company is included within property, plant and equipment and financial liabilities considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as an obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation is provided at the as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, if shorter.
a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of finance charge Share capital on the remaining balance.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Deferred and current taxation attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the period using tax as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
rates in effect during the period.
Taxable profit differs from the profit as Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the reported in the profit and loss account as it is adjusted both for items that consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, will never be taxable or deductible and timing differences.
is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
less tax, at a future date, at average rates expected to apply when they Exemptions crystallise, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the disclosure balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items requirements of FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures.
The cash of income and expenditure in taxation computations in different periods flows of the Company and financial instruments disclosures are from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
included in the consolidated financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is recoverable on the The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related parties from basis that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned entities that are profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which part of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group.
the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and Stocks loss account for the Company.
Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost is calculated 11.2 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, import duties The profit after tax for the Company for the 52 week period ended and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
Stocks represent goods for 2 February 2014 was 1,023m 53 weeks ended 3 February 2013: 647m.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, charged 0.4m 2013: 0.4m course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
for audit services in the year, 0.1m 2013: 0.1m for services related to taxation and 0.1m 2013: 0.4m for other services.
