Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or that could cause actual results to differ materially from those activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
Forwardlegal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules, looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, statement, whether as a result of new information, future events discussions of expected future revenues, nancing plans, expected or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded market conditions and pressures on margins, changes in the level inaccordance with such laws.
of litigation, employee motivation, the performance and resilience of the Companys systems and infrastructure, the level of government regulation and financial risks such as uctuations in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forwardlooking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only attheir respective dates.
Credits Printing Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed by Pureprint Group.
The printing inks are made with non-hazardous vegetable www.
com oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place forallother waste associated with Photography by George Brooks, Henry Thomas and Andy Wilson this production.
Pureprint Group is FSC with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
Paper The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this Annual This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper and cover Report and Accounts have been neutralised through The Gold Standard Basa Magogo board, with Amadeus 100 offset used inthe financial section.
offsetting project in South Africa.
Amadeus 50 Silk is made from 25 per cent fide-inked postconsumer waste, 25 per centunprinted pre-consumer The first Gold Standard project of its kind in the world, this innovative behaviour-change wasteand 50 per centvirgin bre.
programme teaches local communities in South Africa to burn coal differently in order to be more fuel efficient, thereby reducing carbon emissions.
The technique, called Amadeus 100 offset is made from 100 per cent fide-inked Basa Magogo, means Light it up!
In addition to the emission postconsumer waste.
Both products arefully biodegradable reductions, the Basa Magogo technique also improves visibility and reduces health and recyclable and produced inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 risks by producing less smoke.
Wolseley plc 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Wolseley plc Registered Ofce 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
com Follow us on Twitter @wolseleyplc
