Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Principal subsidiary undertakings Company name Principal activity Country of incorporation Beijer Byggmaterial AB Operating company Sweden DT Group A S Operating company Denmark Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. Operating company USA Neumann Bygg AS Operating company Norway Starkki Oy AB Operating company Finland Tobler Haustechnik AG Operating company Switzerland Wasco Holding BV Operating company The Netherlands Wolseley Canada Inc Operating company Canada Wolseley France SAS Operating company France Wolseley UK Limited Operating company England and Wales Wolseley Capital, Inc Financing company USA Wolseley Finance Switzerland AG Financing company Switzerland Wolseley Group Services Limited Service company England and Wales Wolseley Insurance Limited Operating company Isle of Man Wolseley Investments North America, Inc Investment company USA Wolseley Limited Investment company England and Wales 1 The Wolseley Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include them all in this list.
Therefore, this list includes only those subsidiaries which in the Directors opinion principally affect the gures shown in the Consolidated financial statements.
2 Shareholdings in companies marked are held 100 per cent directly by Wolseley plc.
The proportion of the voting rights in the subsidiary undertakings held directly by Wolseley plc do not differ from the proportion of the ordinary shares held.
All other shareholdings in the above mentioned companies are held by intermediate subsidiary undertakings.
3 All shareholdings in the above subsidiary undertakings are of ordinary shares or equity capital.
In addition, the company marked has preference shares which are held 100 per cent directly by Wolseley plc.
4 A full list of related undertakings of Wolseley Limited is included in its Annual Return submitted to the UK Registrar of Companies.
5 All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidation.
Wolseley plc 168 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
