Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 July 2014 1.
Corporate information Wolseley plc the Company was incorporated and registered in Jersey on 28 September 2010 under the Jersey Companies Law as a publiccompany limited by shares under the name Wolseley plc with registered number 106605.
The principal legislation under which the Company operates is the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, and regulations made thereunder.
The address of its registered ofce is 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands.
It is headquartered in Switzerland.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding company of the Wolseley Group of companies.
Company accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented in compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
They have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UKGAAP.
They are presented in pounds sterling which is the functional currency of the Company.
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash ow statement on the grounds that it is included in the consolidated financial statements which it has prepared.
Note 8 Dividends on page 119, note 26 Share capital on page 135 and note 27 Share-based payments on page 136 of the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements form part of these financial statements.
Foreign currencies The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of investment.
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All currency translation differences are charged credited to the profit and loss account.
Investments Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
Cash at bank and in-hand Cash at bank and in-hand includes cash in-hand and deposits held with banks which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset and intention to net settle with cash balances.
Share capital The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Where the Company or one of the Companys trusts purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently disposed or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Share-based payments Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Companys executive share option, long-term incentive and share purchase and ordinary share plan schemes.
The Company recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards, measured using Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant including the impact of non-vesting conditions such as requirement for employees to save and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modied.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to thefailure to satisfy service conditions or achieve non-market performance conditions.
Wolseley plc 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 2.
Company accounting policies continued Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders of the Company or paid.
Fixed asset investments Cost m At 1 August 2013 5,265 Additions 2,321 At 31 July 2014 7,586 All of the above investments are in unlisted shares.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by the recoverable amount of their underlying assets.
For more information, please refer to note 17.
The Companys direct holdings in subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July 2014 were as follows: Percentage of ordinary Company Country of registration and operation Principal activity shares held Wolseley Limited England and Wales Investment 100% Wolseley Insurance Limited Isle of Man Insurance 100% Wolseley fide Puerto Rico, Inc. Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Distributor of industrial products 100% Wolseley Finance Switzerland AG Switzerland Finance 100% Wolseley Holdings Switzerland AG Switzerland Investment 100% Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company, including those that are held indirectly, are listed on page 168 of the Annual Report.
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed by Group companies 22 Other debtors 1 1 Accrued bank interest income 1 1 2 24 The fair value of amounts included in debtors approximates to book value.
Amounts owed by Group companies are not interest-bearing and are payable on demand.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 m m Bank overdraft 3 5 Corporation tax payable 3 Amounts owed to Group companies 535 60 541 65 The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book value.
Amounts owed to Group companies are not interest-bearing and are payable on demand.
Wolseley plc 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 6.
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed to Group companies 103 7.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 26, on page 135, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Share premium account m At 1 August 2013 27 New share capital subscribed 14 At 31 July 2014 41 Details of new share capital subscribed are set out in note 26, on page 135, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Own shares reserve During the previous year, the Company established a new US Employee benefit Trust with 79 million of cash to purchase shares.
The existing Jersey Employee benefit Trust has historically been funded by loans from its subsidiary company, Wolseley Limited, which contributed 14 million during the year 2013: 24 million.
The treasury shares held by both of these Trusts along with the loan payable to Wolseley Limited by the Jersey Trust have been consolidated within the Companys balance sheet as at 31 July 2014 and amount to 93 million 2013: 115 million.
10. profit and loss account m At 1 August 2013 5,185 profit for the year 2,422 Dividends paid 489 Equity-settled employee share options 22 Disposal of own shares by Employee benefit Trusts 43 At 31 July 2014 7,097 11.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders equity 2014 2013 m m Opening shareholders equity 5,125 5,022 profit for the year 2,422 775 Dividends paid 489 521 Share capital and share premium on new share capital subscribed 15 8 Own shares acquired by Employee benefit Trusts net 22 115 Disposal of own shares by Employee benefit Trusts 43 66 Credit for equity-settled share-based payments 22 22 Closing shareholders equity 7,074 5,125 Wolseley plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements continued 12.
Share-based payments Details of share awards granted by Group companies to employees, and that remain outstanding, over the Companys shares are set out in note 27 on page 136 to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
The Company has no equity-settled share-based payments charge in the year 2013: nil.
Amounts charged to subsidiary companies for equity-settled share-based payments amounted to 22 million 2013: 22 million.
Contingent liabilities Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims and legal actions in progress.
The Company takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufciently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
In addition, the Company has given certain banks authority to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit against or towards satisfaction of its liability to those banks of certain subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company and certain Group companies in respect of which no material liabilities are expected to arise.
Employees, employee costs and auditors remuneration The average number of employees of the Company in the year ended 31 July 2014 was one 2013: one.
Other employees of Group companies were seconded or assigned to the Company in the period, in order to full their duties or to carry out the work of the Company.
Each of the Non Executive Directors of the Company has an appointment letter with the Company, and the Executive Directors and certain other senior managers of the Group have assignment letters in place with the Company.
Total employment costs of the Company for the period, including Non Executive Directors and seconded employees, were 1 million 2013: 1 million.
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of the Companys financial statements are set out in note 3, on page 116, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Dividends Details of the Companys dividends are set out in note 8, on page 119, to the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 Related party disclosures to dispense with the requirement to disclose transactions with fellow subsidiaries, all of whose voting rights are held within the Group, and which are included in the consolidated financial statements of Wolseley plc.
Other transactions During the year, the Group undertook a restructuring and renancing of the USA Group, which resulted in the Company increasing its investment in Wolseley Finance Switzerland AG by 2,319 million.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 36, on page 142 of the Wolseley plc consolidated financial statements.
Wolseley plc 164 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
