Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as T adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Groups financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the period are included or excluded from the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 181 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Contingent consideration Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance separable corporate brand names, acquired customer with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Contingent relationships, acquired proprietary tools and capitalised consideration only applies to situations where contingent computer software not integral to a related item payments are not dependent on future employment of of hardware.
vendors and any such payments are expensed when they Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed relate to future employment.
to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including contingent consideration earnout agreements are initially intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
recorded at fair value which is the present value of the Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The obligations or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances are dependent on the future financial performance of the indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of interests acquired typically over a fourto five-year period goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash following the year of acquisition and assume the operating flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After The directors derive their estimates from internal business the projection period a steady growth rate representing an plans together with financial due diligence performed in appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded and is not subsequently reversed.
in the consolidated income statement within revaluation Corporate brand names, customer relationships and of financial instruments.
For acquisitions completed prior proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of to 1 January 2010, such adjustments are recorded in the businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as consolidated balance sheet within goodwill.
intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset Property, plant and equipment will flow to the Group.
Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less to have an indefinite economic life because of the accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
proven ability to maintain market leadership and profitable The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant operations over long periods of time and the Groups and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
commitment to develop and enhance their value.
The Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the carrying value of these intangible assets is reviewed at least Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable Assets in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write carrying value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
as follows: Customer-related intangibles 3-10 years.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term Other including capitalised computer software of the lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
WPP 182 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies Interests in associates and joint ventures Trade receivables An associate is an entity over which the Group has Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and significant influence.
In certain circumstances, significant doubtful debts.
influence may be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation on the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency and interest rate hedging The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate undertakings net of tax, interest and non-controlling The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange interests is included in the consolidated income statement rate management sets out the instruments and methods and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interests available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on The Group uses derivative financial instruments to current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate financial instruments for speculative purposes.
undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, the date a derivative contract is entered into and are the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and The Group accounts for joint venture investments under effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing the equity method which is consistent with the Groups of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature treatment of associates.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Other investments and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Other investments are designated as available for sale Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an and are shown at fair value with any movements in fair ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging value taken to equity.
instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for the year.
Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Inventory and work in progress Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays immediately, together with any changes in the fair value incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete The effective portion of changes in the fair value of assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain and net realisable value.
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 183 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies are transferred from equity and included in the initial Convertible debt measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument the liability element.
The difference between this figure and recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast the cash received is classified as equity.
If a hedged transaction is no longer The consolidated income statement charge for the expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss finance cost is spread evenly over the term of the convertible recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss debt so that at redemption the liability equals the for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related Other debt to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds in the consolidated income statement.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Borrowing costs Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the consolidated to require the Group to purchase a non-controlling interest income statement over the term of those borrowings.
are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet initially at the present value of the redemption amount in accordance Revenue recognition with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and subsequently measured at fair value in accordance with IAS Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Direct costs include fees paid to external The movement in the fair value is recognised as income or suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of expense within revaluation of financial instruments in the a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure consolidated income statement.
is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Derecognition of financial liabilities In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the Group is only released to the consolidated income statement when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
WPP 184 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies Advertising and Media Investment Management Data Investment Management Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may performed for market research contracts is based on consist of various arrangements involving commissions, proportional performance.
In assessing contract fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
as agreed upon with each client.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in performance.
The primary input of all work performed accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we relationship between labour and cost, there is normally act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a a direct relationship between costs incurred and the client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these as an initial proportional performance measure.
This activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that indicative proportional performance measure is we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
subsequently validated against other more subjective In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports the Group acts as a principal and contracts directly with delivered to a client and the achievement of any project suppliers for media payments and production costs, the milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of revenue recorded is the gross amount billed.
divergence between the objective and more subjective Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both measures, the more subjective measures take precedence quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related since these are output measures.
to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the While most of the studies provided in connection quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when in response to an individual clients or group of clients the incentive is received or receivable.
specifications, in certain instances a study may be The Group receives volume rebates from certain developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local recognised when the product is delivered.
Where the law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
terms of transaction provide for licensing the product If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as on a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over the liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are subscription period on a straight-line basis or, if applicable, recorded as revenue when earned.
Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on which to measure proportional performance when the actual threshold is reached provided that collectability is reasonably assured.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 185 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts Communications of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all recognised when the service is performed, in accordance taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can credited in the consolidated income statement, except be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the when it relates to items charged or credited to other consolidated income statement revenue and related costs comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case as contract activity progresses.
the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Taxation available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current if the temporary difference arises from the initial rates.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax recognition of goodwill or other assets and liabilities currently payable and deferred tax.
other than in a business combination in a transaction The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed determining the appropriate provision for transactions at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
taxes based on the best information available and where the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable anticipated liability is both probable and estimable.
Such temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries liabilities are classified as current when the Group expects and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where to settle the liability within 12 months and the remainder as the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are included difference and it is probable that the temporary difference in income taxes both in the consolidated income statement will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the final outcome of such matters Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there differs from the amount recorded, any differences may is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the against current tax liabilities and when they relate to period in which the final determination is made.
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential on a net basis.
amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled and liabilities where necessary.
or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for enacted legislation.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
WPP 186 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies Retirement benefit costs Operating leases The Group accounts for retirement benefit costs in Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease For defined contribution plans, contributions are term.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease charged to the consolidated income statement as payable is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
in respect of the accounting period.
For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs, past service Translation of foreign currencies costs, administrative expenses and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the in the consolidated income statement when the related transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated plan amendment occurs.
The interest cost on pension plan in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the liabilities and expected return on plan assets reported in year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses 2012 have been replaced with a net interest amount which are credited or charged to the consolidated income is shown within finance costs.
The net interest is calculated statement as they arise.
by applying the discount rate to the recognised overall The income statements of overseas subsidiary surplus or deficit in the plan.
undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of these in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the of the plan are held separately from those of the Group, opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings in separate independently managed funds.
Pension plan to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are such operations are reported in the consolidated statement measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit of comprehensive income.
method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially closing rate.
and are updated at each balance sheet date.
Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan is limited based on the economic gain the Company is Share-based payments expected to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or reduction in future contributions to the plan, The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments in accordance with IAS 19. including share options to certain employees and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are Finance leases measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-marketbased vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26. fair value and the present value of the minimum lease The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will and interest elements and the interest is charged to the ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of  income statement as it is incurred.
