Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies New IFRS accounting pronouncements Critical judgements and estimation uncertainty in applying accounting policies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have Management is required to make key decisions and not been applied in these financial statements, were in judgements whilst acknowledging there is estimation issue but not yet effective: uncertainty in the process of applying the Groups IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: accounting policies.
The most significant areas where such IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts: and judgements and estimation uncertainty apply are revenue IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
recognition, goodwill and other intangibles, payments With the exception of IFRS 15, the Group does not due to vendors earnout agreements, liabilities in respect consider that these Standards and Interpretations will have of put option agreement with vendors, acquisition reserves, a significant impact on the financial statements of the taxation and accounting for pension liabilities.
Where Group except for additional disclosures when the relevant judgement has been applied or estimation uncertainty standards come into effect.
exists, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed The directors expect that the adoption of IFRS 15 in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these may have an impact on revenue recognition and related financial statements.
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
Directors responsibility statement In the current year, amendments to the following Standards and Interpretations became effective: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation: and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings IAS 36: Impairments of Assets: and included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the Measurement.
development and performance of the business and the The adoption of these Standards and Interpretations has position of the Company and the undertakings included not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson Group chief executive Group finance director 20 April 2015 WPP 188 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Our 2014 financial statements Accounting policies The numbers in full... WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 189
