182 Corporate Information Investor Information American Depositary Receipts ADRs International payment service WS Atkins plc The Company has a Level 1 ADR for dividends Registered in England programme.
This enables US investors to Capita Registrars offers shareholders a Company no.
1885586 purchase the Companys American service to convert sterling dividends into Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS certain local currencies.
This service provides Company secretary represents 1 ordinary share.
faster access to funds and will generally cost and registered office less than the fees charged by your local Richard Webster JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. acts as an bank.
For further information, please contact WS Atkins plc ADR depositary bank.
Telephone: Woodcote Grove 44 0 20 8639 3405 if calling from outside Ashley Road For the issuance and management of the UK or 0871 664 0385 if calling from Epsom ADRs, and any general ADR questions, the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus Surrey KT18 5BW please contact: any additional network charges : lines England are open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday.
JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. Email: ips@capitaregistrars.
com or visit Financial calendar P. O.
Box 64504 the registrars website: www.
Ex-dividend date 9 July 2014 St. Paul capitaregistrars.
Record date 11 July 2014 Minnesota 55164-0504 USA Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Last day to elect for DRIP 23 July 2014 The Company offers a dividend reinvestment Annual General Meeting 30 July 2014 Investor helpline: 800-990-1135 if calling plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient way Final dividend from the US toll free or 1-651-453-2128 of increasing their shareholding in the payment date 22 August 2014 if calling from outside the US Company.
Should you wish to participate in the DRIP please contact the registrar on the Shareholder services Website: www.
com telephone number given above to request Registrar a mandate form and an explanatory booklet.
Enquiries and notifications concerning Investor relations website Your completed mandate form must be dividends, share certificates, transfers and Many commonly asked shareholders received by the registrar no later than address changes should be sent to the questions are addressed in the investor 23 July 2014 if you wish your final dividend registrar, whose address is: relations section of our website: for the year to be reinvested to buy www.
Capita Asset Services The Registry E-communications Amalgamation of accounts 34 Beckenham Road Shareholders can choose to receive all Shareholders who receive duplicate sets Beckenham Company communications electronically.
of Company mailings owing to multiple Kent BR3 4ZF This environmentally friendly way of accounts in their name should contact the UK receiving information has a number of registrar to have their accounts advantages including speedier delivery of amalgamated.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 if calling from documents and the ability to access reports the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus and results on the internet wherever you are.
Unsolicited mail any additional network charges or To register please visit our share portal at The Company is obliged by law to make its 44 0 20 8639 3399 if calling from www.
share register available to third parties who outside the UK: lines are open 0900 to 1730 may then use it for a mailing list.
are a UK shareholder and you wish to limit receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so Share portal: www.
com by registering with the Mailing Preference Service MPS.
Registration can be made Other shareholder enquiries should be online at www.
uk or via addressed to Atkins company secretary at telephone on 020 7291 3310. the registered office.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information 183 Investor Information continued Giving your shares to charity Warning to shareholders If you are offered unsolicited investment If you only have a small number of shares Share fraud includes scams where investors advice, discounted shares, a premium price whose value makes it uneconomic to sell are called out of the blue and offered shares for shares you own, or free company or them, you may wish to consider donating that often turn out to be worthless or research reports, you should take these them to charity though ShareGift, an non-existent, or an inflated price for shares steps before handing over any money: independent share donation scheme.
These calls often require you 1. g et the name of the person and The relevant share transfer form can be to make a quick decision and come from organisation contacting you obtained from the registrar.
ShareGift is fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that 2. c heck the Financial Services Register administered by The Orr Mackintosh are mostly based abroad.
High pressure sales FSR at www.
uk firms systemsFoundation Limited, registered charity tactics can also come by email, post, word reporting register search to ensure they number 1052686.
Further information of mouth or at a seminar.
Sometimes scams are authorised may be obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 are also advertised in newspapers, 3. u se the details on the FSR to contact the or from www.
magazines or online and appear as if they firm are genuine investment opportunities.
4. i f you are based in the UK, call the FCA Identity theft Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals In addition, be aware of money recovery if there is no telephone number on the may steal your personal information, scams which can be initiated by someone FSR or you are told it is out of date putting your Atkins shareholding at risk.
claiming to be from the police or a 5. s earch the FCAs list of known government agency.
Organisations names unauthorised firms and individuals to Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: vary but can include the National Fraud avoid doing business with Intelligence Bureau and the US Securities & ensure all your certificates are kept in 6. remember that law enforcement and Exchange Commission.
You should check a safe place or hold your shares other agencies will not contact members the latest information on the Financial electronically in CREST via a nominee of the public asking for their bank details Conduct Authority FCA website at www.
or money keep all correspondence from the registrar fca.
uk consumers scams what-to-do-if- 7. re member: if it sounds too good to be that shows your shareholder reference you-are-scammed for more details of scams true, it probably is.
number in a safe place, or destroy your pretending to be the police or a government correspondence by shredding it agency.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or if you change address inform the registrar sell shares or other investments, you will not While high profits are promised, those who in writing or via our share portal at have access to the Financial Ombudsman buy or sell shares in this way usually lose www.
com Service or Financial Services Compensation their money.
The FCA found that even Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
know when dividends are paid and experienced investors have been caught out consider having your dividend paid directly by share fraud and on average, share fraud If you are approached about a share scam into your bank account.
This will reduce victims lose an average of 20,000, with you should tell the FCA using the share the risk of the cheque being intercepted around 200m lost in the UK each year.
fraud reporting form at www.
If you change your consumers scams, where you can find out bank account, inform the registrar of the about the latest investment scams.
If you details of your new account.
You can do are based in the UK, you can also call the this by post or online using our share FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. portal at www.
Respond to any letters the registrar sends If you have already paid money to share you about this fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud if you receive a letter from the registrar online at www.
uk or, regarding a change of address or a if you are based in the UK, by telephone on dividend instruction but have not recently 0300 123 2040. moved or requested a change to how you receive your dividends please contact them immediately as you may have been a victim of identity theft if you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 184 Corporate Information Investor Information continued You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports Corporate Sustainability Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Sustainability strategy and performance by visiting Investor presentations this section of our website.
Links to results presentations, videos, press releases Alerts and webcasts.
Receive automated announcements and news by Shareholders queries signing up to our alerting service.
We provide a number of services to help our shareholders Latest financial news manage their holdings, keep Access our latest financial up to date with our progress press releases here.
Share price Charts showing share price activity.
Register for ecomms You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Company and its directors and the Groups employees are not responsible for any other purpose of use or to any other person in relation to this Annual Report.
This Annual Report contains indications of likely future Good results and significant developments and other forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring progress on our strategy.
from time to time in the countries, sectors and business segments in which the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal risks and uncertainties pages 44 to 47.
These and other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those currently expected.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Annual Report is printed on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is PCF Process Chlorine Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com TT-COC-002228 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 info@atkinsglobal.
com Annual Report 2014 By printing 2,000 copies of this Report on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper the environmental impact was reduced by: 1,787 kg of landfill 37,171 litres of water 3,425 kWh of energy 264 kg CO and greenhouse gases 2 2,904 kg of wood Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology.
Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data virgin fibre paper available.
Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject to modification.
