Strategic Report 09 Chief Executive Officers Statement continued We made significant progress on our three-pillar strategy.
Headcount closed the year at 17,489 While the markets in which we operate Our Faithful Gould business in the region in North America were steady, we have 2013: 17,899, reflecting both the sale performed well during the year and was of non-core businesses totalling 1,165 achieved good progress in our North boosted by some 71 new colleagues in America region, with an increase in and underlying headcount growth and the region as the result of the Confluence the acquisition of Confluence Project operating profit and margin.
As with the UK region, the we established a new leadership team Management Pte.
Middle East regions use of our GDCs in and have focused on improving efficiency India is improving our performance and and reducing overheads in the business, Our United Kingdom and Europe region competitive position.
performed well during the year, driven as part of the roll-out of our operational excellence programme.
We benefited primarily by the UK where we experienced Our Asia Pacific region had a good year, good momentum in our core markets.
from good new contract wins in the with strong performance in our core wastewater management, energy, The use of our global design centres markets of Hong Kong and China.
The GDCs in India to deliver work for our UK marine and emergency response areas diversification from our strong historic rail of our business, and were reappointed business also enhanced our performance base in Hong Kong continued throughout and increased our competitiveness.
We on significant contracts for the Federal the year and we are now working on achieved particularly good volumes in the Emergency Management Agency FEMA.
opportunities with local design institutes retained highways consultancy and rail Our transportation business continued and Chinese contractors.
In addition we benefited from with its positive performance and was China we continue to benefit from a contract gain share as a consequence awarded a number of new contracts projects as a result of rapid urbanisation of the M25 design project exceeding its including commissions to oversee and look to expand our footprint into delivery targets, in part offset by transport solutions for highways South East Asia, focusing on rail projects outstanding variation negotiations on authorities in Florida, Texas and Georgia.
in Malaysia and architectural opportunities certain rail signalling contracts.
The UK In addition, our Faithful Gould business in Vietnam.
The acquisition of Confluence, water and environment business had a in the region had a good year with an through our Faithful Gould business busy first half with peak volumes improvement in margins and profitability, in the region, has enabled us to achieve associated with AMP5 and feasibility benefiting from continued economic particular success in Singapore on several studies on phase one of the HS2 high recovery in the private sector.
high profile projects in more diverse speed rail project.
We were pleased to sectors.
see opportunities re-emerging for our I am pleased to report that our design and engineering business from the Middle East region had an improved Good organic growth continues to be UK education market and infrastructure year, thanks to a particularly good second delivered by our Energy business, where work associated with nuclear new-build half which included contract wins for we are well-positioned in the buoyant projects.
We remain well positioned in the Riyadh and Doha Metros.
In addition, markets of oil and gas and nuclear and our defence business following the the infrastructure sector remains buoyant where we are seeing a steady increase in change in the UK Governments approach in Qatar and Abu Dhabi with good our share of the conventional generation to reforming its defence procurement opportunities in the Kingdom of Saudi and renewable markets.
Of particular note was the fact to strengthen our service offering through remain stable and the market well-funded, that the property sector is showing early partnerships with companies offering while our Faithful Gould business signs of an upturn where we are working complementary skills.
This is helping us to performed well in a reasonably tough on a number of new projects, including secure strategic opportunities around the environment.
the Dubai Opera House and the residential world, with a recent example being our element of Al Habtoor City, along Dubais selection as preferred bidder on a new main arterial road.
In a market with contract with Sellafield Ltd in joint venture good opportunities, we continue to be with Areva and Mace.
During the year selective about the projects on which we also agreed to purchase Nuclear Safety we work to ensure we maintain a strong Associates, a 130-people engineering and financial performance in the region.
technical services firm, which will enhance our offering in safety and regulation experience in US nuclear technology.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Our strategy remains clear.
We will drive We have delivered another year of good Priorities results and proved that our consistent Our drive to become a more responsible shareholder value by focusing on growth, selectively increasing our geographic strategy is working.
Whilst organic growth and sustainable organisation remains of paramount importance.
Right at the top footprint through targeted international remains our priority, we will also seek expansion while continuing to deliver acquisitions that add new skills or expand of this commitment is health and safety.
Our See it, Stop it, Save a life mantra improved financial performance in all our regional presence.
We were our markets and geographies.
In the particularly pleased with our successes empowers our people to stop work immediately whenever anything appears medium term, our goal remains to in this area in the year.
generate a margin above 8% across all unsafe.
Our leaders actively drive a culture of safety and demonstrate their our businesses.
We will grow organically We start the new financial year with an and through acquisitions.
attractive pipeline of opportunities across commitment through the use of safety moments, taking time out at the start the Group and a strong balance sheet.
In 2013, we continued work to deliver Our operational excellence programme of meetings to remind everyone about its importance.
Following the successful will ensure our continued focus on implementation of our operational improving our overall operating margin, We are demonstrating strong industry excellence programme to optimise towards our 8% goal.
Overall we believe financial delivery in the UK, this has now 2014 15 will be another year of growth.
leadership in the Middle East through the launch of the Atkins minimum been extended to our Middle East and North America regions.
In the area of Prof Dr Uwe Krueger requirements for construction safety, which are enabling us to influence clients portfolio optimisation, we completed Chief Executive Officer the sale of our UK highways services 11 June 2014 and contractors to raise health and safety standards on their projects.
Our efforts operations and the disposal of the Peter Brown construction management at risk were recognised at Construction Week Qatars annual awards where we won business.
In the domain of sector and regional focus, our Energy business has Health and Safety Initiative of the Year.
We were also recognised in the UK for benefited from ongoing investment and during the year we agreed to acquire the third consecutive year with the award of a Gold Award for Occupational Safety Nuclear Safety Associates.
In addition, attractive opportunities for growth exist in from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
our Asia Pacific region as we expand our activities from our historic base in Hong This year we launched a set of principles Kong into new countries such as Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam.
Our acquisition to frame our approach to corporate sustainability.
These principles are based of Confluence during the year was part of this strategy.
on three pillars: a society for our future: an environment with a future: and a responsible business of the future.
Conclusion It is thanks to our people around the world that we have achieved these good results.
Through our 75th anniversary celebrations, our people have demonstrated that they are proud to work for Atkins.
In turn, we are proud of our people, the Atkins family, for the way they work together, with colleagues and clients, finding solutions to make the world just a little bit better, creating a better future for us all.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
