Financial Statements 119 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2014 1.
Accounting policies WS Atkins plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, including the application of new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 that applies to companies reporting under IFRS, and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under critical accounting policies and are incorporated by reference in the Business Review page 43.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosure New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2013 and have a material impact on the Group: IAS 19, Employee benefits, was revised in June 2011.
The changes on the Groups accounting policies has been as follows: to replace the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net defined benefit liability: to recognise immediately in the income statement unvested past service cost and administration costs: this also had a small impact on the Groups defined benefit liability.
For the comparative year ended 31 March 2013, the restated profit after tax is 4.1m lower and other comprehensive expense is 4.5m lower than previously reported.
The effect of this resulted in the net defined benefit obligation at 1 April 2012 being restated as 262.5m previously 265.3m : and 31 March 2013 as 295.6m previously 298.8m, see note 32.
Comparative information has been restated for the effect of the retrospective application of the amendment to IAS 19 as disclosed in note 44.
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2013 and does not have a material impact on the Group: Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation regarding other comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from this amendment is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
This amendment has been applied retrospectively and the presentation of items of comprehensive income have been reclassified.
There has been no measurement impact on the consolidated accounts of applying the amendments to IAS 1.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, on asset and liability offsetting.
This amendment introduces new disclosures of information about the significance of financial instruments to an entity.
The objective of the standard is to define the term fair value and to establish guidance and disclosure requirements for fair value measurement that should be applied across standards.
In the new standard, fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between independent market participants at the measurement date.
For non-financial assets, the fair value is determined based on the highest and best use of the asset as determined by a market participant.
There has been no measurement impact on the consolidated accounts of applying IFRS 13.
These Annual Improvements address six areas, none of which materially impacted the Groups primary statements.
In addition, following a change in its operational management, the Group has amended its operating segments for reporting purposes to reflect the United Kingdom and Europe as one segment: previously Europe had been managed and reported with Asia Pacific.
The revised segments are: United Kingdom and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
The segmental results and assets and liabilities for the comparative year ended 31 March 2013 have been represented in line with these revised segments.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued New standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the Group The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either not been adopted by the European Union or were not yet effective in the European Union for the financial year beginning 1 April 2013: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures IAS 36, Impairment of Assets on recoverable amount disclosures Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Transition Guidance IAS 19, Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Group is currently assessing the impact of the new standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective.
The Group does not currently believe adoption of these would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of joint ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of any non-controlling interest.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is lower than the fair value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on finalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Groups, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
Joint ventures In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, the Group accounts for joint ventures under the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of a joint ventures profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control.
Within the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the investment is recorded at cost classified as a non-current asset and subsequently adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the movements in the joint ventures net assets post acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are stated in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures adopt accounting policies that are different from the Groups, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
Employee benefit trusts The accounts of the employee benefit trusts EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice, the Groups recommendations on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees are normally followed.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained earnings.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income, for example, as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the Groups presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The Groups operating segments for management purposes reflect predominantly its key geographical markets.
As noted above, the segments are: United Kingdom and Europe, North America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as they are the main determinants of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the UK to be its country of domicile.
Intersegment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Underlying profit Underlying operating profit is profit before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets recognised on acquisition and material transaction costs associated with acquisitions, and relates to continuing operations.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract in which case the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Revenue is recognised on the majority of the Groups contracts on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Under the percentage completion method, the percentage of the total forecast revenue reported at any point in time is calculated based upon the proportion of total costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs or, in some cases, based upon the estimated physical per cent complete of the total work to be performed under the contract.
In some cases, a margin provision is then made, depending on how far progressed each project is and the risk profile of the project.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete.
In addition, provision is made in full for estimated losses and, where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract, a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs.
Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any special purpose company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that typically defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For the defined benefit plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reflected immediately in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs.
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Defined benefit pension costs are categorised as follows: service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements net interest expense or income remeasurement.
The net retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the actual deficit in the Groups defined benefit plan.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in the future payments is available.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity and cash settled share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options or cash phantom allocations of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002.
In the case of equity settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are included in retained earnings accumulated losses until the awards are exercised.
In the case of cash settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are held as a liability in the balance sheet until the awards are transferred, at which point a cash amount based on the Companys share price at the vesting date is paid to the employee.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares, any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs, any proceeds are credited to retained earnings accumulated losses.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures, except where it is known that the earnings will be distributed.
Deferred tax assets of 3.7m have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of timing of utilisation.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the Companys interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and is subject to impairment reviews.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business acquisition is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, that are separable from goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets, and do not fall within the Groups other classes of intangible assets.
These comprise principally existing customer relationships which may give rise to future orders customer relationships, and existing order books backlog orders.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Acquired customer relationships are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and have a finite useful life.
Amortisation of customer relationships is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of customer relationships over their estimated useful lives of between one and twenty years.
Acquired customer relationships are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Backlog orders are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years.
Backlog orders are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the software licences over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modifications are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the corporate information systems over their estimated useful life of six years.
Corporate information systems are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Trade names and trademarks Trade names and trademarks have arisen on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses and are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have a finite useful life, amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of trade names and trademarks over their estimated useful lives.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have an indefinite useful life, they are not subject to amortisation: they are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, as detailed within the impairment of non-financial assets section below.
Trade names and trademarks are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight line method to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short term leasehold property over the life of the lease Plant, machinery and vehicles 3 to 12 years The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash flows CGUs.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the mid market price.
These instruments are included in Level 1, see note 2.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2, see note 2.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the investments has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance income.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Impairment of financial assets Assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
For other receivables carried at amortised cost, impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Assets classified as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Group uses the criteria referred to above.
If any evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out method.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 23.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash flow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash flow is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment at the leases commencement and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash flows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
The pre-tax rate used reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Business Review page 42.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk analyses, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, are intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates and UK interest rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement changes in the carrying value of other financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are generally unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups investments in foreign operations.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2014, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.3m 2013: 1.7m and equity would have been 0.3m lower 2013: 1.7m.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.4m 2013: 2.1m and equity would have been 0.4m higher 2013: 2.1m.
At 31 March 2014, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.7m 2013: 0.3m and equity would have been 0.7m lower 2013: 0.3m.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.8m 2013: 0.4m and equity would have been 0.8m higher 2013: 0.4m.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
A proportion of the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 130 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing bank loans.
The majority of these items are at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate results in changes in interest-related cash flows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2014 had been 10 basis points higher lower, post-tax profit for the year would have been approximately 0.1m 2013: 0.1m higher lower.
iii Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
To manage this risk, the Group diversifies its portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group.
In the prior year, the Group was also exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group in unlisted corporate bonds availablefor-sale financial assets.
These investments were disposed of during the prior year.
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis.
The Group is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups balance sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Groups policy is that cash and investments should not be concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Groups broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated primarily by the use of advance payments resulting in positive cash flows.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention remains focused on the recovery of debtors.
c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups borrowing facilities include bank facilities and private placement debt.
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by a central finance department Group Finance.
Group Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities note 29 at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt financing plans and covenant compliance.
Any surplus cash is invested by Group Treasury in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the forecasts mentioned above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Group 2014 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 55.4 55.4 1 Private placement debt 2.2 2.2 6.7 48.8 59.9 Trade payables 63.1 63.1 2013 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 60.0 60.0 1 Private placement debt 2.4 2.2 6.5 52.5 63.6 Trade payables 74.3 74.3 Company 2014 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 55.4 55.4 1 Private placement debt 2.2 2.2 6.7 48.8 59.9 Intercompany payables 76.2 76.2 2013 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 60.0 60.0 1 Private placement debt 2.4 2.2 6.5 52.5 63.6 Intercompany payables 82.0 82.0 1.
The contractual cash flows in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast contractual interest payments on those borrowings.
Interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the balance sheet date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 132 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 297.7 142.2 281.7 161.3 US dollar 111.9 13.1 118.1 16.7 UAE dirham 28.1 2.4 20.8 2.2 China RMB 19.6 0.4 21.4 0.6 Euro 18.3 0.8 11.7 1.1 Qatari riyal 17.2 1.2 17.6 0.8 HK dollar 16.8 0.1 15.3 1.1 Saudi Arabian riyal 11.4 0.9 7.9 0.8 Australian dollar 10.1 0.3 12.4 Danish krone 9.1 0.9 11.6 0.9 Swedish krone 5.6 0.5 7.3 1.5 Other 32.5 1.1 29.5 1.7 Total 578.3 163.9 555.3 188.7 The carrying value of the financial assets of the Company are denominated in US dollars 103.6m and sterling 62.1m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company are denominated in US dollars 100.7m and sterling 78.6m.
At 31 March 2013, the carrying value of the financial assets of the Company were denominated in US dollars 109.9m and sterling 55.6m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company at that date were denominated in US dollars 109.1m and sterling 82.0m.
Financial assets consist of loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in consolidated accounts : and borrowings.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders and through its borrowing facilities.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of its net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA at 31 March 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Group Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Total borrowings 29 100.8 109.2 Less: cash and cash equivalents 28 237.3 201.5 Net funds 136.5 92.3 Net defined benefit pension deficit 32 324.2 282.0 Net deferred tax 20 67.2 71.4 Net debt plus net defined pension deficit net of total deferred tax 120.5 118.3 Profit before interest and tax 127.8 112.3 Add: depreciation 14.7 14.6 Add: amortisation and impairment 7.5 14.0 EBITDA 150.0 140.9 Less: exceptional item 12 4.3 Adjusted EBITDA 150.0 136.6 Ratios of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA 0.8 0.9 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
As a result, profit before interest and tax, net defined benefit pension deficit and net deferred tax for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated accordingly.
See notes 20, 32 and 44 for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of IAS 19 revised 2011 on the Group.
Given the Groups current net funds position, the Board has not formally agreed a target ratio of net debt plus net defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2014 and 2013.
See note 11 for disclosures of the disposal group held for sale at 31 March 2013 that was measured at fair value.
2014 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.8 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Marketable securities Certificates of deposit 13.1 13.1 16.7 16.7 Fixed interest securities 4.6 4.6 8.3 8.3 Life insurance policies 2.6 2.6 3.8 3.8 Floating rate notes 6.5 6.5 4.4 4.4 UK treasury bills 4.7 4.7 2.7 2.7 Total assets 15.8 16.1 31.9 15.4 21.3 36.7 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 4.4 4.4 2.7 2.7 Total liabilities 4.4 4.4 2.7 2.7 There have been no changes to the classification of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 at 31 March 2014 or 2013.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 134 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
The fair value of certificates of deposit is calculated as the present value of the future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate market rate of interest.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: the fair value of derivatives used for hedging are provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC and Bank of America Merrill Lynch the fair value of all marketable securities, with the exception of life insurance policies, are provided by the financial institutions holding the Groups funds and investments the fair value of all life insurance policies are provided by the Groups insurance companies.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities As at 31 March 2014 Gross Net amounts Related amounts amounts of of financial not set off in balance sheet recognised assets Gross amounts financial liabilities of recognised assets presented financial liabilities in the assets set off the balance Financial Cash collateral liabilities balance sheet sheet instruments received Net amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.3 Derivative financial liabilities 4.4 4.4 0.1 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 249.4 12.1 237.3 237.3 Credit balance 12.1 12.1 Total 233.3 233.3 233.3 As at 31 March 2013 Gross Net amounts Related amounts amounts of of financial not set off in balance sheet recognised assets Gross amounts financial liabilities of recognised assets presented financial liabilities in the assets set off the balance Financial Cash collateral liabilities balance sheet sheet instruments received Net amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 0.8 0.8 0.3 0.5 Derivative financial liabilities 2.7 2.7 0.3 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents 226.0 24.5 201.5 201.5 Credit balance 24.5 24.5 Total 199.6 199.6 199.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 135 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
Segmental information The CODM has been identified as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director review the Groups internal reporting to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
Following a change in its operational management, the Group has amended its operating segments for reporting purposes to reflect the United Kingdom and Europe as one segment: previously Europe had been managed and reported with Asia Pacific.
The segmental results and assets for the comparative year ended 31 March 2013 have been represented in line with these revised segments.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director assess the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit before interest and tax.
Information provided to the chief executive officer and the Group finance director is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Financial Statements.
a Group business segments Revenue and results Share of post-tax Inter profit loss External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit margin ventures 2014 m m m m % m United Kingdom and Europe 976.5 21.8 998.3 62.6 6.3 0.2 North America 379.0 1.9 380.9 19.1 5.0 0.1 Middle East 177.9 9.5 168.4 14.4 8.6 Asia Pacific 100.8 0.3 100.5 8.0 8.0 Energy 183.5 13.9 169.6 15.1 8.9 0.5 Total for segments 1,817.7 1,817.7 119.2 6.6 0.2 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 64.6 64.6 0.2 Unallocated central items 3.0 3.0 5.7 2.6 Total for Group 1,750.1 1,750.1 113.7 6.5 2.4 Share of Inter post-tax External segment Operating Operating profit from Restated revenue trade Revenue profit margin joint ventures 2013 m m m m % m United Kingdom and Europe 960.9 16.2 977.1 62.2 6.4 0.9 North America 388.7 1.0 389.7 15.3 3.9 0.5 Middle East 168.3 6.1 162.2 11.8 7.3 Asia Pacific 88.1 0.1 88.0 8.1 9.2 Energy 162.9 11.0 151.9 13.8 9.1 0.1 Total for segments 1,768.9 1,768.9 111.2 6.3 1.5 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 63.7 63.7 1.5 Unallocated central items 5.7 2.3 Total for Group 1,705.2 1,705.2 104.0 6.1 3.8 Unallocated central items comprise a 3.0m provision relating to the previously disposed of Asset Management business and 2.7m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisitions of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ and Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd. Confluence, see note 17 2013: 4.3m relating to a pension curtailment gain and 10.0m of intangible asset amortisation and impairment relating to the acquisition of PBSJ.
Total segment revenue of 1,817.7m 2013: 1,768.9m excludes the share of joint venture revenue from Diego Garcia of 0.5m 2013: 6.6m, which is treated as a centrally managed joint venture.
Total segment revenue also excludes the 3.0m provision relating to the previously disposed of Asset Management business, refer above 2013: nil.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 136 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests: Restated 2014 2013 m m Operating profit 113.7 104.0 Net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 10.5 4.5 Income from other investments 1.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 2.4 3.8 Profit before interest and tax 127.8 112.3 Finance income 4.2 3.4 Finance costs 17.8 17.7 Net finance costs 13.6 14.3 Profit before tax 114.2 98.0 Income tax expense 17.9 13.7 Profit for the year 96.3 84.3 Profit loss attributable to: Owners of the parent 96.0 84.6 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 96.3 84.3 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
As a result, operating profit, finance costs and income tax expense in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated accordingly.
Consequently, the results of the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment have also been restated for that year.
See note 44 for further details regarding the impact of the adoption of IAS 19 revised 2011 on the Group.
Balance sheet Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2014 m m m m m m United Kingdom and Europe 544.1 280.8 263.3 4.2 12.1 11.4 North America 287.7 71.4 216.3 0.6 3.4 4.7 Middle East 102.1 51.2 50.9 0.7 1.3 Asia Pacific 59.0 43.1 15.9 6.6 1.5 Energy 74.4 28.1 46.3 0.6 0.7 0.6 Total for segments 1,067.3 474.6 592.7 4.2 23.5 19.5 Group items: Unallocated central items 12.9 475.4 462.5 2.7 Total for Group 1,080.2 950.0 130.2 4.2 23.5 22.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 137 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and Restated assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2013 m m m m m m United Kingdom and Europe 556.0 315.7 240.3 3.8 15.1 10.0 North America 313.1 91.5 221.6 0.7 2.5 5.1 Middle East 105.1 57.7 47.4 2.9 1.1 Asia Pacific 49.4 44.7 4.7 3.6 1.9 Energy 73.4 30.3 43.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 Total for segments 1,097.0 539.9 557.1 4.4 24.6 18.6 Group items: Unallocated central items 16.7 427.5 410.8 2.7 10.0 Total for Group 1,113.7 967.4 146.3 7.1 24.6 28.6 As detailed in note 1, during the period the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
As a result, operating profit for the year ending 31 March 2013 reduced by 0.1m, which impacted the results of the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment.
Consequently, the segmental results for the year ended 31 March 2013 have also been restated.
Assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segments and the physical location or territory of the asset or liability.
Group cash balances: derivative financial instruments: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: centrally managed joint ventures: and corporate assets are not considered to be segment assets as they are managed centrally.
Consequently they are shown within unallocated central items.
Similarly, post-employment benefit liabilities: bank loans and private placement debt: derivative financial instruments: central tax provisions: and corporate liabilities are not considered to be segment liabilities as they are managed centrally.
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
b Group geographical segments External revenue is measured by location of operation.
There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location of operation and by location of customer.
Outside the UK, only the Groups business in the United States US contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue or non-current assets.
c Major customers Revenue from the UK Government represents approximately 181.1m 2013: 206.5m of the Groups total revenue and is included within the United Kingdom and Europe and Energy operating segments.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 138 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Joint ventures a Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures Group 2014 2013 m m Revenue 65.1 70.3 Operating expenditure 62.5 66.1 Operating profit 2.6 4.2 Finance income Finance costs Profit before tax 2.6 4.2 Income tax expense 0.2 0.4 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 2.4 3.8 b Investments in joint ventures Group 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets Other non-current assets 0.1 0.1 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 9.5 12.8 Other current assets 28.7 31.9 38.2 44.7 Current liabilities Borrowings 0.9 Trade and other payables 33.0 36.4 33.9 36.4 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 0.2 1.2 0.2 1.2 Share of net assets 4.2 7.1 Investments in joint ventures 4.2 7.1 The Groups principal joint ventures are detailed in note 43.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 139 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Operating profit analysis of costs by nature Group 2014 2013 Note m m Operating profit is arrived at after charging crediting : Employee benefit costs restated 6 924.3 891.7 Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.8 1.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18 14.7 14.6 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Loss on sale of intangible assets 0.1 Impairment of trade receivables reversal of impairment increase in provisions 26 11.3 8.7 release of provisions 26 10.0 8.7 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 17 7.5 14.0 Receipts under operating leases 3.4 3.9 Payments under operating leases 53.2 59.4 Company operating profit was arrived at after generating nil of realised profit on disposal of investments 2013: 9.0m.
Services provided by the Groups auditor During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor: Group Restated 2014 2013 m m Statutory audit of the Company and Group Financial Statements 0.3 0.3 The audit of accounts of Group companies pursuant to legislation: UK 0.4 0.5 Non-UK 0.7 0.6 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit services 1.5 1.5 Taxation compliance services 0.8 0.5 Taxation advisory services 0.1 0.2 Services relating to pensions 0.1 Other 0.1 0.1 Total other services 1.0 0.9 Total 2.5 2.4 The fee for the statutory audit of the Companys annual accounts was 0.1m 2013: 0.1m.
No other services were provided to the Company by the Groups auditor 2013: none.
The total for other non-audit services for the year ended 31 March 2013 was stated to be 0.2m.
It has subsequently transpired that some fees had been incorrectly classified and hence the numbers have been restated.
This included approximately 143,000 that was incorrectly identified as fees paid to the independent auditor and was in fact paid to other third parties so this has been removed from the restated numbers.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 140 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6.
Employee benefit costs Average Year end Restated Restated 2014 2013 2014 2013 Number Number Number Number Number of full time equivalent people including executive directors employed by the Group By segment: United Kingdom and Europe 9,002 9,208 8,858 9,354 North America 2,970 3,091 2,836 3,039 Middle East 1,982 2,003 2,061 1,978 Asia Pacific 1,167 1,015 1,322 1,084 Energy 1,331 1,213 1,365 1,273 Corporate 78 70 77 76 Total for Group 16,530 16,600 16,519 16,804 As detailed in note 3, following a change in its operational management, the Group has amended its reporting segments for management purposes to reflect the United Kingdom and Europe as one segment: previously Europe had been managed and reported with Asia Pacific.
The average and year end number of full time equivalent people including executive directors employed by the Group for the comparative year ended 31 March 2013 for the United Kingdom and Europe and Asia Pacific have been represented in line with these revised segments.
Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to: Group Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Wages and salaries, including restructuring costs 804.2 787.2 Social security costs 64.6 64.5 Defined benefit current service cost 32 2.1 2.1 Settlement and curtailment gains 32 4.4 Charge for defined contribution schemes 32 37.9 32.8 Other post-employment benefit costs 32 5.3 2.0 Share-based payments 35 10.2 7.5 924.3 891.7 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011, which reduced the defined benefit current service cost.
The cost for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated accordingly from 2.2m to 2.1m.
Wages and salaries include 3.5m of restructuring costs 2013: 5.4m relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration including retirement benefits and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration Report, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 41.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 141 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Net finance costs Group Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Interest payable on borrowings 3.4 3.2 Interest payable on finance lease liabilities 0.3 Unwinding of discount 31 0.1 0.1 Net finance costs on net post-employment benefit liabilities 32 12.6 13.3 Other finance costs 1.7 0.8 Finance costs 17.8 17.7 Interest receivable on short term deposits 1.0 1.1 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.1 0.7 Income on available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 Interest receivable on loan notes 3.1 1.3 Finance income 4.2 3.4 Net finance costs 13.6 14.3 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011, which increased net finance costs.
Net finance costs on net post-employment benefit liabilities for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated accordingly from 8.1m to 13.3m: total net finance costs have been restated from 9.1m to 14.3m.
In the prior year, finance income of 1.4m arising on loan notes receivable from Lambert Smith Hampton Acquisition Limited LSH had been provided against in full within interest receivable on loan notes.
See note 24 for further details regarding these loan notes receivable.
Company net finance costs were 2.6m 2013: 2.2m.
Income tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year Group Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Current income tax current tax on profits for the year 7.1 15.0 adjustment in respect of prior years 2.0 3.6 Deferred income tax 20 origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.7 0.9 effect of changes in tax rates 3.1 1.4 Income tax charged to income statement 17.9 13.7 Adjust for: taxation on net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 1.5 0.4 taxation on exceptional items 1.0 taxation on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 0.8 3.9 Underlying income tax expense 20.2 17.0 Profit before tax per income statement 114.2 98.0 Adjust for: net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 10.5 4.5 amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 2.7 10.0 exceptional items 4.3 Underlying profit before income tax 106.4 99.2 Effective income tax rate 15.7% 14.0% Underlying effective income tax rate 19.0% 17.1% The restatement of the effective income tax rate and the underlying effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2013 is due to the adoption and retrospective application by the Group of IAS 19 revised 2011.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 142 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Factors affecting income tax rate The income tax rate for the year is lower 2013: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% 2013: 24%.
The differences are explained below: Group Restated 2014 2013 % % UK statutory income tax rate 23.0 24.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 0.2 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 2.5 0.2 Effect of share-based payments 0.1 0.4 Tax on joint ventures 0.9 1.4 Research and development tax credits 6.0 5.9 Losses not previously recognised for tax 5.5 3.7 Effect of change in tax rates 2.7 1.4 Other 0.5 0.8 Effective income tax rate 15.7 14.0 The underlying income tax rate for the year is lower 2013: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% 2013: 24%.
The differences are explained below: Group Restated 2014 2013 % % UK statutory income tax rate 23.0 24.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 1.7 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 3.4 1.3 Effect of share-based payments 0.1 0.4 Tax on joint ventures 1.0 1.4 Research and development tax credits 6.4 5.9 Losses not previously recognised for tax 3.3 3.7 Effect of change in tax rates 2.9 1.4 Other 0.7 0.7 Underlying effective income tax rate 19.0 17.1 As noted in a above, the restatement of the effective income tax rate and the underlying effective income tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2013 is due to the adoption and retrospective application by the Group of IAS 19 revised 2011.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 143 Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Income tax on components of other comprehensive income The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2014 m m m At 1 April 49.5 0.2 49.7 Deferred income tax 6.4 6.4 Current income tax 0.7 0.7 At 31 March 55.9 0.9 56.8 Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2013 m m m At 1 April 40.8 0.5 41.3 Deferred income tax restated 8.7 8.7 Current income tax 0.3 0.3 At 31 March 49.5 0.2 49.7 Income tax on the post-employment benefit liability for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated due to the adoption and retrospective application by the Group of IAS 19 revised 2011.
Net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 2014 2013 Group m m Profit loss on disposal of businesses UK highways services 13.0 UK highways services transaction costs released incurred 0.6 3.8 Transfer of ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. 3.1 Sodexo Property Solutions Limited formerly Atkins Facilities Management Limited 0.5 Profit on disposal of non-controlling interests RMPA Holdings Limited 7.6 UK Specialist Hospitals Limited 0.2 Net profit on disposal 10.5 4.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 144 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Net profit on disposal of businesses UK highways services On 27 February 2013 contracts were exchanged to dispose of the Groups UK highways services business, which formed part of the UK highways and transportation business, to Skanska Construction UK Limited Skanska, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 16.0m subject to certain completion adjustments, together with a deferred conditional amount of 2.0m.
The profit on disposal before tax recognised at 31 March 2014 is shown below: 2014 Group m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 16.0 Fair value of deferred consideration Disposal consideration paid 16.0 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Property, plant and equipment 5.1 Share of joint venture net assets 0.2 Inventories 1.0 Borrowings 4.7 Net assets 1.6 Profit on disposal before costs 14.4 Disposal costs incurred 1.4 Profit on disposal 13.0 At 31 March 2013, disposal costs of 3.8m were provided for, comprising transaction costs of 2.4m and restructuring costs of 1.4m.
Following the conclusion of this transaction in 2014, 0.6m of the restructuring costs were not required and were subsequently released.
The disposal of the Groups UK highways services business is not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2014 as it did not represent a major line of business.
Transfer of ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. On 30 August 2013 the transfer of the ongoing operations of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. Peter Brown to Moss & Associates, LLC Moss was completed.
The business was transferred for a cash consideration payable to Moss of $4.0m 2.6m.
The loss on disposal before tax was $4.8m 3.1m and is shown below.
The disposal of Peter Brown is not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2014 as it did not represent a major line of business.
The Peter Brown business has been reported in the North America operating segment note 3.
2014 Group $m m Net consideration paid or payable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 4.0 2.6 Disposal consideration paid 4.0 2.6 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Trade and other receivables 0.3 0.2 Net assets 0.3 0.2 Loss on disposal before costs 4.3 2.8 Disposal costs incurred 0.5 0.3 Loss on disposal 4.8 3.1 Sodexo Property Solutions Limited formerly Atkins Facilities Management Limited On 30 November 2011, the sale of Atkins Facilities Management Limited AFML to Sodexo Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sodexo S. A. was completed.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 5.2m, together with a deferred conditional amount of 0.5m.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, deferred conditional consideration of 0.5m was received.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 145 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Profit on disposal of non-controlling interests RMPA Holdings Limited In the prior year, on 4 May 2012, the sale of the Groups non-controlling interest 14% holding in RMPA Holdings Limited to a subsidiary undertaking of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited was completed.
HICL Infrastructure Company Limited is the ultimate parent company of an existing shareholder.
The interest was sold for a net consideration of 14.4m.
The profit on disposal before tax was 7.6m and the profit on disposal after tax was 7.7m.
The disposal of the non-controlling interest was not treated as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2013 as it did not represent a major line of business.
UK Specialist Hospitals Limited In the prior year, on 20 February 2013, the sale of the Groups investment in UK Specialist Hospitals Limited to Care UK Clinical Services Limited was completed.
The investment was sold for a cash consideration of 0.2m.
The profit on disposal was 0.2m.
10. Business combinations Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd On 4 October 2013 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd Confluence, a Singapore-based project management business, for a debt-free cash consideration of Singapore $17.0m approximately 8.4m.
Confluence is an international consultancy employing around 200 people, offering services in the areas of project and construction management, and has operations in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and India.
Confluences teams in Singapore, Hong Kong, Abu Dhabi and India have integrated with the Groups existing operations in Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
The acquisition complements the Groups Faithful Gould project and cost management consultancy business and, in particular, augments its presence in the commercial, retail and hospitality sectors.
At 31 March 2014 the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business combination have been determined on a provisional basis, pending finalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
Under IFRS 3, Business combinations, adjustments to these provisional values can be made within one year of the date of acquisition relating to facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The finalised position will be reflected in the Groups financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2015.
The goodwill of 5.7m arising from the acquisition was allocated to the Asia Pacific segment.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The goodwill of 5.7m is attributable to the extensive complementary skills which enable the Groups combined operations to provide an enhanced offering to clients in Asia Pacific and the Middle East, which will augment its presence in the commercial, retail and hospitality sectors in particular.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Confluence and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Consideration at 4 October 2013 SGDm m Cash 17.0 8.4 Additional payment for assets 2.1 1.1 Total consideration 19.1 9.5 Fair value amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets and liabilities assumed are as follows: SGDm m Intangible assets 3.0 1.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Non-current other receivables 0.5 0.2 Trade and other receivables 8.0 4.0 Cash 5.7 2.8 Trade and other payables 8.6 4.2 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 0.9 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.2 Total identifiable net assets 7.5 3.8 Goodwill 11.6 5.7 Total consideration paid 19.1 9.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 146 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Acquisition-related costs of 0.6m have been charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2014.
There were no contingent liabilities as at the date of acquisition.
The revenue included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income since 4 October 2013 contributed by Confluence was 8.7m.
Confluence also contributed profit before tax of 0.8m over the same period.
Had Confluence been consolidated from 1 April 2013, the Consolidated Income Statement would show revenue of 1,759.1m and profit before tax of 115.1m.
Assets held for sale UK highways services In the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group presented the assets and liabilities relating to the Groups UK highways services business, which formed part of the UK highways and transportation business, as held for sale following the exchange of contracts on 27 February 2013.
The transaction completed on 4 October 2013 and the profit on disposal is shown in note 9.
Whilst the assets and liabilities of the UK highways services business represent a disposal group, the business was not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2013 as it did not represent a major line of business.
The UK highways services business has been reported in the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment note 3.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of this disposal group were as follows: 2013 m Assets classified as held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 5.0 Inventories 0.8 Total assets of the disposal group 5.8 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale: Borrowings 5.2 Total liabilities of the disposal group 5.2 Total net assets of the disposal group 0.6 12.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
An analysis of the amount presented as an exceptional item in these Financial Statements is given below: Group 2014 2013 Note m m Curtailment gain relating to one-off pension events 32 4.3 The curtailment gain is included within administrative expenses in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 147 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Dividends Company and Group 2014 2013 2014 2013 pence pence m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 22.00 20.75 21.4 20.3 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 10.50 10.00 10.3 9.7 Dividends recognised in the year 32.50 30.75 31.7 30.0 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 10.50 10.00 10.3 9.7 Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013 23.25 22.00 22.7 21.4 Dividends relating to the year 33.75 32.00 33.0 31.1 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2014, one EBT had an agreement in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on 213,461 ordinary shares 2013: 213,461.
A separate EBT also had an agreement in place as at 31 March 2014 to waive future dividends in their entirety on 2,311,202 ordinary shares 2013: 2,618,276.
These arrangements reduced the dividends paid in year by 0.8m 2013: 0.8m.
As at 31 March 2014, 4,341,000 ordinary shares 2013: 4,341,000 were held by the Group as treasury shares on which no dividends are paid.
These shares reduced the dividends paid in year by 1.4m 2013: 1.3m.
Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the EBTs which have not unconditionally vested in the employees and shares held in treasury.
Diluted EPS is the basic EPS after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the number of options outstanding during the year.
The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Group 2014 2013 Number 000 Number 000 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in basic and underlying basic EPS 97,547 97,425 Effect of dilutive securities share options 2,704 2,412 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and underlying diluted EPS 100,251 99,837 Restated Note m m Earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 96.0 84.6 Net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests net of tax 9 12.0 4.9 Exceptional pension curtailment gain net of tax 12 3.3 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles net of tax 1.9 6.1 Underlying earnings 85.9 82.5 pence pence Basic earnings per share 98.4 86.8 Diluted earnings per share 95.8 84.7 Underlying basic earnings per share 88.1 84.7 Underlying diluted earnings per share 85.7 82.6 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
The profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent and, consequently, underlying earnings for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated accordingly.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 148 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The Company has not presented its own Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent was 43.7m 2013: 23.4m, which included 45.4m 2013: 16.1m of dividend income from subsidiary companies and no profit on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking 2013: 0.5m, see note 9.
The Companys individual Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income were approved by the Board on 10 June 2014.
Goodwill Group 2014 2013 Note m m Cost at 1 April 220.2 213.4 Additions 10 5.7 Difference on exchange 13.8 6.8 Cost at 31 March 212.1 220.2 Aggregate impairment at 1 April 8.8 8.4 Difference on exchange 0.7 0.4 Aggregate impairment at 31 March 8.1 8.8 Net book value at 31 March 204.0 211.4 Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGU, or group of CGUs, that management has identified in order to carry out impairment tests.
The segmental summary of goodwill for the comparative year ended 31 March 2013 has therefore been represented in line with the revised segments.
The following is a summary of goodwill allocation by CGU or group of CGUs, summarised at the operating segment level: Group Restated 2014 2013 m m United Kingdom and Europe 45.1 45.5 North America 131.0 141.8 Asia Pacific 5.5 Energy 22.4 24.1 Total 204.0 211.4 The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately when the carrying value of those assets exceeds their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the amount obtainable from the sale of a CGU or group of CGUs in an arms-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is assessed from an external perspective and value in use from a Group-internal perspective.
Both are determined using a business valuation model, taking into account planned future cash flows.
If available, third-party valuations are taken as a basis for determining fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 149 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Value in use calculations Methodology The internal value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on the following financial years budget approved by the Board, which is based on past performance and managements expectations of market developments.
The key assumptions in the budget relate to revenue and profit margins.
Budgeted revenue is based on managements knowledge of actual results from prior years, along with the existing committed and contracted workload, as well as managements future expectations of the level of work available within the market.
Profit margins are based on current margins being achieved in conjunction with economic conditions in the market or country of operation.
The cash flow projections from that budget are extrapolated for the next four years using an estimated growth rate and projected margin.
Growth rates of between 1.7% and 5.4% are based on the economic environment for the country in which the CGU operates.
As required by IAS 36, cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated based on the long term average growth rate for the primary country in which the CGU operates of between 1.8% and 5.3%.
These growth rates are derived from the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook published Gross Domestic Product GDP growth rates.
Projected margins reflect the historical and budgeted performance of the CGU.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
The cash flows have been discounted using the CGUs specific pre-tax discount rates of between 6.7% to 17.9%.
The discount rates have been calculated based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates are revised annually using updated market information.
Assumptions The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for the internal value in use calculations are as follows: Group 2014 2013 Five year growth rate 1.7% 5.4% 1.5% 3.3% Post five year growth rate 1.8% 5.3% 1.7% 3.3% Pre-tax discount rate 6.7% 17.9% 7.7% 15.2% Sensitivities Goodwill of 131.0m 2013: 141.8m allocated to the North America operating segment includes 124.1m of goodwill arising on the acquisition of PBSJ.
This goodwill has been allocated to the North America group of CGUs and is considered significant in comparison with the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation.
The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for this calculation are as follows: 2014 2013 Five year growth rate 2.7% 3.3% Post five year growth rate 2.2% 3.3% Pre-tax discount rate 13.5% 12.4% Given the materiality of goodwill allocated to the North America group of CGUs, together with the relative headroom derived by the calculations, sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
The two assumptions to which these calculations are most sensitive are the projected profit margin and the discount rate.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to the profit margin, it would need to fall by 180 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 13.5% to 16.6%.
For the other CGUs, management has considered the level of headroom resulting from the impairment tests.
Where appropriate, further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each CGU.
The analysis has indicated that no reasonably possible changes in any individual key assumption would cause the carrying amount of the business to exceed its recoverable amount.
As at 31 March 2014 and 2013, based on these valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill required no impairment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 150 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17.
Other intangible assets Group Acquired Corporate Trade customer information names and Software relationships systems trademarks licences Total Note m m m m m Cost at 1 April 2012 43.6 3.0 5.6 18.1 70.3 Additions 6.3 6.3 Disposals 2.8 0.3 3.1 Difference on exchange 1.5 0.2 1.1 2.8 Cost at 31 March 2013 45.1 0.2 5.8 25.2 76.3 Additions 4.3 4.3 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 10 1.5 1.5 Disposals 2.0 4.6 2.3 8.9 Difference on exchange 3.8 0.8 4.6 Cost at 31 March 2014 40.8 0.2 1.2 26.4 68.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at 1 April 2012 10.3 3.0 0.8 9.9 24.0 Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 4.0 6.6 Impairment charge for the year 2.6 4.8 7.4 Disposals 2.8 0.2 3.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.2 1.1 1.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 15.9 0.2 5.8 14.8 36.7 at 31 March 2013 Amortisation charge for the year 2.7 4.8 7.5 Disposals 2.0 4.6 2.2 8.8 Difference on exchange 1.5 0.7 2.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 15.1 0.2 1.2 16.7 33.2 at 31 March 2014 Net book value at 31 March 2014 25.7 9.7 35.4 Net book value at 31 March 2013 29.2 10.4 39.6 Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 4.9m 2013: 5.4m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010.
At 31 March 2014, the net book value of these backlog orders is nil 2013: 0.1m.
The remaining amortisation life of the other assets included within acquired customer relationships is 15.5 years.
In the prior year, the carrying amounts of acquired customer relationships and trade names and trademarks relating to Peter Brown, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, were reduced to recoverable amounts of nil following an impairment review.
Impairment charges of 2.6m and 4.8m were recognised respectively, as well as 2.6m amortisation on acquired intangibles, as shown above.
These impairment charges were included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The recoverable amounts of Peter Browns intangible assets were based on their value in use.
The post-tax discount rate used in the value in use calculation was 9.3%.
Peter Brown has been reported within the Groups North America operating segment, note 3.
The ongoing operations of this business were disposed of on 30 August 2013.
Further details regarding this disposal are given in note 9.
The amortisation charge for the year of 7.5m 2013: 6.6m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 151 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment Group Freehold Short term Plant, land and leasehold machinery buildings property and vehicles Total Note m m m m Cost at 1 April 2012 20.8 28.9 75.4 125.1 Additions 3.2 15.1 18.3 Disposals 2.3 8.3 10.6 Transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 0.2 14.8 15.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.5 1.8 2.7 Cost at 31 March 2013 21.2 30.1 69.2 120.5 Additions 1.7 11.8 13.5 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 10 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.3 1.1 6.4 7.8 Difference on exchange 0.5 1.1 3.9 5.5 Cost at 31 March 2014 20.4 29.6 70.8 120.8 Accumulated depreciation at 1 April 2012 7.8 18.1 47.7 73.6 Depreciation charge for the year 5 0.4 3.3 10.9 14.6 Disposals 2.3 7.9 10.2 Transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 0.1 9.9 10.0 Difference on exchange 0.3 1.5 1.8 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2013 8.2 19.3 42.3 69.8 Depreciation charge for the year 5 0.4 3.3 11.0 14.7 Disposals 0.7 6.2 6.9 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.6 2.8 3.5 Accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2014 8.5 21.3 44.3 74.1 Net book value at 31 March 2014 11.9 8.3 26.5 46.7 Net book value at 31 March 2013 13.0 10.8 26.9 50.7 The depreciation charge for the year of 14.7m 2013: 14.6m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
An independent valuation of the Groups freehold land and buildings was performed by valuers to determine their fair value at 31 March 2014.
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 18.5m 2013: 17.6m.
In the prior year, the net book value of property, plant and equipment transferred to the disposal group classified as held for sale amounted to 5.0m and related to assets used by the Groups UK highways services business, which formed part of the United Kingdom and Europe operating segment.
Included in plant, machinery and vehicles above are equipment and vehicles held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts as follows: 2014 2013 m m Cost 0.3 12.8 Accumulated depreciation 0.2 8.1 Net book value 0.1 4.7 In the prior year, 4.6m was included in plant, machinery and vehicles transferred to the disposal group classified as held for sale were equipment and vehicles used by the Groups UK highways services business held under finance leases.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 152 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Investments in subsidiaries Company Total m Cost at 1 April 2012 186.9 Additions 8.3 Cost at 31 March 2013 195.2 Additions 6.6 Cost at 31 March 2014 201.8 Impairment at 1 April 2012, 31 March 2013 0.8 Disposals Impairment at 31 March 2014 0.8 Net book value at 31 March 2014 201.0 Net book value at 31 March 2013 194.4 The Groups principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 42.
During the prior year, the Company increased its investment in Atkins Investments UK Limited to enable it to fulfil its obligation to make shareholder contributions to Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited, see note 24.
Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and there is a legally enforceable right to settle tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The offset amounts are as follows: Group Restated 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets: deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 81.2 91.0 deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 1.5 0.5 82.7 91.5 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liabilities to be settled after more than 12 months 12.1 16.2 deferred tax liabilities to be settled within 12 months 3.4 3.9 15.5 20.1 Deferred tax assets net 67.2 71.4 Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
a Net deferred tax assets liabilities Group Restated 2014 2013 m m Accelerated depreciation 7.3 10.9 Share-based payments 4.5 3.7 Goodwill 3.2 1.8 Intangible assets 2.3 Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities 65.8 65.5 Deferred income 7.9 8.1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 10.9 12.5 Other temporary differences 11.6 11.4 Total deferred income tax 67.2 71.4 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 153 Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Analysis of movements during the year Group Restated 2014 2013 Note m m Deferred tax assets at 1 April 71.4 64.7 Transfers between current and deferred tax 0.9 Deferred tax charged to the income statement 8 12.8 2.3 Deferred tax on acquisitions 10 0.2 Deferred tax credited to equity 7.5 9.1 Foreign exchange difference on deferred tax 0.4 0.1 Deferred tax assets at 31 March 67.2 71.4 Finance Act 2013 enacted a reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
As the Finance Act 2013 had been enacted as at the balance sheet date, the impact of these reductions have been reflected in the movements in deferred tax as at 31 March 2014.
No further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate are currently proposed.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category Group Assets 2014 at fair value through Derivatives Loans and profit used for receivables and loss hedging Total m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 Other receivables 19.9 19.9 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 401.7 401.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 31.5 31.5 Cash and cash equivalents 237.3 237.3 Total 658.9 31.5 0.4 690.8 Other Liabilities financial at fair value liabilities at through Derivatives amortised profit used for cost and loss hedging Total m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 100.7 100.7 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 4.4 4.4 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 254.7 254.7 Total 355.5 4.4 359.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 154 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Assets Group at fair value 2013 through Derivatives Loans and profit used for receivables and loss hedging Total m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.8 0.8 Other receivables 20.0 20.0 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 432.0 432.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 35.9 35.9 Cash and cash equivalents 201.5 201.5 Total 653.5 35.9 0.8 690.2 Other Liabilities financial at fair value liabilities at through Derivatives amortised profit used for cost and loss hedging Total m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 109.1 109.1 Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 274.9 274.9 Total 384.1 2.7 386.8 Company 2014 Loans and receivables Total m m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 165.7 165.7 Cash and cash equivalents Total 165.7 165.7 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings 100.7 100.7 Bank overdraft 2.4 2.4 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 76.2 76.2 Total 179.3 179.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 155 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Company 2013 Loans and receivables Total m m Assets as per balance sheet Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 165.2 165.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 0.3 Total 165.5 165.5 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Total m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings 109.1 109.1 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 82.0 82.0 Total 191.1 191.1 22.
Available-for-sale financial assets Group 2014 2013 m m At 1 April 6.1 Disposals 4.5 Net gains transferred from other comprehensive income 1.6 At 31 March Available-for-sale financial assets comprised unlisted corporate bonds with a fixed annual return of 10% and maturity date of 25 August 2016.
The bonds were denominated in UAE dirham and were disposed of in the prior year.
In addition to the net gain of 1.6m transferred from other comprehensive income to the Consolidated Income Statement in the prior year, a gain on disposal of 0.8m was included within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement in that year in relation to this disposal.
Derivative financial instruments The table below shows the fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value: Group 2014 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current 0.4 2.7 0.5 1.4 Later than one year and no later than two years 0.7 0.3 1.3 Later than two years and no later than five years 1.0 Non-current 1.7 0.3 1.3 Total 0.4 4.4 0.8 2.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 156 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The notional principal amounts of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2014 and 2013 are as follows: Group 2014 2013 Sell Buy Sell Buy m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 1.0 1.0 12.7 13.1 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell EUR 7.0 7.1 5.6 5.4 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell Other 1.9 1.9 4.6 4.7 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell GBP 33.0 31.4 28.8 29.0 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell USD 13.5 14.5 The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 March 2014 are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
This is within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of forward currency contracts at the year end: Group 2014 2013 Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net m m m m m m Current 26.7 29.1 2.4 31.2 32.1 0.9 Later than one year and no later than two years 11.5 12.1 0.6 18.9 19.9 1.0 Later than two years and no later than five years 14.2 15.1 0.9 0.2 0.2 Non-current 25.7 27.2 1.5 19.1 20.1 1.0 Total 52.4 56.3 3.9 50.3 52.2 1.9 The Group used derivative instruments to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts, as described in note 2.
All of the Groups financial instruments are classified as Level 2 under amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures.
A definition of Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated based on quoted forward currency rates at the balance sheet date.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are closely related to the host contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 157 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24.
Other receivables Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Non-current assets: Loan notes receivable 19.9 29.6 9.6 Impairment of loan notes receivable 9.6 9.6 19.9 20.0 During the year the Group reduced interest-bearing loan notes by 0.1m in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2013: increased by 1.8m, a company in which the Group has a 10% shareholding.
Under the terms of the Connect Plus M25 finance agreement, the Group is required to lend Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 20m over a period from May 2009 to October 2012.
This funding is lent on by Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited to Connect Plus M25 Limited, the main trading entity for the Connect Plus M25 project and the company which holds the 30 year PFI contract with the Highways Agency to design, build, fund and then operate and maintain the M25.
One of the subcontractors used by Connect Plus M25 Limited to deliver its main obligations under this project is Connect Plus Services.
The Groups interest in Connect Plus Services is disclosed in note 41 and Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited is considered a related party of the Group.
At 31 March 2014 the Group held 19.9m of interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2013: 20.0m.
These loan notes mature in 2039, and has a nominal interest rate of 12% per annum.
None of the other receivables are past due.
Inventories Group 2014 2013 m m Raw materials and consumables 0.2 The directors consider that the carrying amount of inventories approximates their fair value.
There were no amounts of inventories written off during the year 2013: nil.
In the prior year, inventories of 0.8m relating to the Groups UK highways services business were reclassified from inventories at 31 March 2013 and classified as an asset held for sale.
Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m m m Current assets: Trade receivables 305.8 314.9 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 23.9 24.3 Trade receivables net 281.9 290.6 Amounts recoverable on contracts 93.2 106.5 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 41 164.2 165.2 Amounts due from joint ventures 41 7.7 7.3 Other receivables 18.9 27.6 1.5 Prepayments and accrued income 16.4 17.2 418.1 449.2 165.7 165.2 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value.
At 31 March 2014, 156.8m 2013: 172.1m of Group trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing.
At 31 March 2014, 96.3m 2013: 100.1m of Group trade receivables were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date and carried a provision for impairment of 0.3m 2013: 0.4m.
The remaining Group trade receivables of 96.0m 2013: 99.7m which were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
Group trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled 52.7m 2013: 42.7m and carried a provision for impairment of 23.6m 2013: 23.9m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 158 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Group 2014 2013 m m Provision for impairment at beginning of year 24.3 24.6 Increase in provisions 11.3 8.7 Release of provisions 10.0 8.7 Receivables written off as uncollectable 0.1 1.2 Difference on exchange 1.6 0.9 Provision for impairment at end of year 23.9 24.3 None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
At 31 March 2014, 0.5m of the Companys amounts due from subsidiary undertakings were fully provided against 2013: 0.5m, with an in year release of provisions of nil 2013: 9.0m, see note 41.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In accordance with IFRS 7, disclosure is required for financial instruments that are measured in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
The Groups financial assets that are measured and recognised at fair value through profit or loss include certificates of deposit, fixed interest securities, life insurance policies, floating rate notes and UK treasury bills.
The Groups financial liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value include derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 23.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Group 2014 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Certificates of deposit 13.1 13.1 16.7 16.7 Floating rate notes 6.5 6.5 4.4 4.4 Fixed interest securities 4.6 4.6 8.3 8.3 UK treasury bills 4.7 4.7 2.7 2.7 Life insurance policies 2.6 2.6 3.8 3.8 Marketable securities 15.8 15.7 31.5 15.4 20.5 35.9 A definition of Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
There have been no changes to the classification of financial assets between Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments at 31 March 2014 or 2013.
Changes in fair values of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include fair value loss of 0.1m 2013: 0.3m gain.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 187.0 153.5 0.3 Short term bank deposits 50.3 48.0 237.3 201.5 0.3 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 0.5% 2013: 0.7%.
Included within cash at bank and in hand is 2.2m 2013: 0.1m held by the Companys EBTs.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 159 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Borrowings Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Current Bank loans 55.2 59.8 55.2 59.8 Bank overdraft 2.4 Finance leases 0.1 55.3 59.8 57.6 59.8 Non-current Private placement debt 45.5 49.3 45.5 49.3 Finance leases 0.1 45.5 49.4 45.5 49.3 Total 100.8 109.2 103.1 109.1 The directors consider that the carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows: Group 2014 2013 m m Repayable: Later than one year and no later than two years Later than two years and no later than five years 0.1 Later than five years 45.5 49.3 45.5 49.4 The carrying amount of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2014 2013 Bank loans Bank loans and private and private placement Finance placement Finance debt leases Total debt leases Total m m m m m m Sterling US dollar 100.7 0.1 100.8 109.1 0.1 109.2 100.7 0.1 100.8 109.1 0.1 109.2 The total present value of minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Group 2014 2013 m m No later than one year 0.1 Later than one year and no later than five years 0.1 0.1 0.1 Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease payables 0.1 0.1 Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date.
The average effective borrowing rate for all finance leases was 7.7% 2013: 6.2% including those classified as held for sale over a weighted average remaining period of 26 months 2013: 52 months.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 160 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows: Group 2014 2013 m m Later than one year and no later than two years 113.3 Later than two years and no later than five years 141.5 All of the Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
On 10 October 2013 the Group entered into a new five year revolving credit facility RCF.
This facility matures in October 2018.
The new arrangement provides the Group with an enlarged committed credit facility of 200m, and replaced the Groups previous 150m RCF and 30m bilateral facility.
This larger facility provides the Group with increased and longer term financial capacity to support its strategy.
The total letters of credit in issue under the committed facility at 31 March 2014 were 3.3m 31 March 2013: 6.9m.
The new facility includes four of the Groups existing lenders, Banc of America Securities Limited, Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and National Westminster Bank plc, together with three new banks, The National Bank of Abu Dhabi, Abbey National Treasury Services plc and United Overseas Bank Limited.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a number of undertakings and financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored.
As at 31 March 2014, and since, there have been no breaches 2013: none.
In the prior year, the Group raised $75m through the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
The proceeds were used to repay drawn funds under the Groups existing banking facilities.
The private placement is due for repayment on 31 May 2019 and carries a nominal interest rate of 4.38%.
Trade and other payables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m m m Current liabilities: Trade payables 63.1 74.3 Fees invoiced in advance 155.5 165.9 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 41 76.2 82.0 Social security and other taxation 41.8 41.3 Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered and development fees 0.1 Accruals and deferred income 156.6 170.5 1.0 1.1 Other payables 36.1 34.6 453.1 486.7 77.2 83.1 The directors consider that the carrying values of the Groups trade and other payables approximate their fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 161 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Group 2014 2013 Vacant Vacant property property m m Current 0.8 1.5 Later than one year and no later than two years 1.1 1.5 Later than two years and no later than five years 1.8 2.0 Later than five years 0.4 0.9 Non-current 3.3 4.4 Total 4.1 5.9 Group Vacant property Note m Balance at 1 April 2013 5.9 Provisions charged to the income statement 1.9 Provisions released to the income statement 1.8 Provisions utilised 2.0 Unwinding of discount 7 0.1 Balance at 31 March 2014 4.1 The vacant property provision is discounted and is expected to be utilised over the next 12 years 2013: 13 years.
No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
Post-employment benefit liabilities The Groups post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below: Group Restated 2014 2013 m m Net retirement benefit liabilities 324.2 282.0 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 14.8 13.6 339.0 295.6 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
IAS 19 revised 2011 and the related consequential amendments have impacted the accounting for the Groups defined benefit scheme by replacing the interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest charge on the net defined benefit liability.
In addition, the standard requires that unvested past service cost and administration costs be recognised immediately in the income statement, which has also had a small impact on the Groups defined benefit liability.
The effect of this resulted in the net defined benefit obligation at 1 April 2012 being restated as 262.5m previously 265.3m : and 31 March 2013 as 295.6m previously 298.8m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 162 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued a Net retirement benefit liabilities The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Groups obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligation is to provide specified benefits on retirement.
The two main defined benefit schemes are the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes.
The assets of both schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation.
Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
The Plan is closed to the future accrual of benefit: all defined benefit members of the Plan were transferred to a defined contribution section for future service where it was clear they did not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
In 2012 Atkins Limited, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, undertook an enhanced transfer value ETV exercise for deferred members of the Plan.
The exercise gave rise to a settlement gain under IAS 19 in respect of those members who transferred out their benefits.
The Plan recognised a net settlement gain of 0.1m in respect of the ETV exercise for the year ended 31 March 2013.
This is to allow for the difference between the expected impact of the exercise already included in the 31 March 2012 disclosures and the actual impact of the exercise.
The settlement gain of 0.1m is based on the transfer out of the Plan of a further 1.3m of assets and corresponding liabilities of 1.4m in respect of those members.
The Railways Pension Scheme invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and as determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustees attitude to risk.
The majority of the Railways Pension Schemes assets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested in a single pooled growth fund.
This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion to vary the asset allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time.
The remaining assets in the Railways Pension Scheme are principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
The Railways Pension Scheme recognised a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2013 in respect of the two new benefit bases that came into effect for certain members from 1 January 2013.
The curtailment gain arose for members moving from the existing uncapped salary category or retail price index RPI capped salary category to the new consumer price index CPI capped category.
The reduction in the past service liability for this curtailment was 4.3m and this was recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan was closed to future accrual of benefits for members who do not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension on 31 March 2009.
These members transferred to the Personal Retirement Savings Accounts Ireland PRSA Irish Life scheme with effect from 1 April 2009.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are closed to new entrants, who are offered membership of the defined contribution section.
Membership of the Groups principal pension schemes is as follows: Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes Atkins Pension Railways Pension Atkins Pension Plan Scheme Plan Faithful Gould 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 No.
Members 5 10 201 216 7,163 7,207 935 886 Deferred pensioners 7,018 7,214 322 318 9,978 8,512 1,350 1,294 Pensioners 3,366 3,274 356 338 10,389 10,498 879 872 17,141 15,719 2,285 2,180 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 163 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme are listed in the table below: 2014 2013 Price inflation RPI 3.50% 3.40% CPI 2.50% 2.40% Rate of increase of pensions in payment Limited Price Indexation RPI-based 3.20% 3.10% Limited Price Indexation CPI-based 2.50% 2.40% Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50% Fixed 5.00% 5.00% Rate of increase in salaries Atkins Pension Plan 5.00% 4.90% Railways Pension Scheme uncapped 5.75% 5.65% Railways Pension Scheme RPI capped 3.50% 3.40% Railways Pension Scheme CPI capped 2.50% 2.40% Rate of increase for deferred pensioners Atkins Pension Plan 3.50% 3.40% Railways Pension Scheme 2.50% 2.40% Discount rate 4.50% 4.60% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 24.1 years 24.0 years Women 26.3 years 25.9 years Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners current age 45 Men 26.3 years 26.2 years Women 28.6 years 28.2 years The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Plan were the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS tables, with medium cohort improvements from 2002 to 2009 and a scaling factor of 0.85 0.90 for males females respectively.
Future improvements are based on CMI improvements with a 1.5% per annum improvement trend, based on year of use application.
The Railways Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables.
The components of the pension cost are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Total charge 0.1 2.2 2.3 Net interest expense 9.4 2.5 0.1 12.0 Total charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes 9.5 4.7 0.1 14.3 Charge for defined contribution schemes 37.9 37.9 Total charge to income statement 9.5 4.7 38.0 52.2 Statement of comprehensive income Loss gain on pension scheme assets 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Changes in assumptions 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Deferred tax credited charged to equity 20 7.1 0.8 0.1 6.4 Remeasurements loss net of deferred tax 53.3 3.3 0.5 57.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 164 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Atkins Railways Pension Pension Restated Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 Note m m m m Cost of sales Current service cost 0.2 1.9 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain net 0.1 0.1 Total charge credit 0.1 2.2 2.1 Net interest expense 10.5 2.1 12.6 Total charge credit to income statement for defined benefit schemes 10.6 0.1 10.5 Charge for defined contribution schemes 32.8 32.8 Total charge credit to income statement 10.6 0.1 32.8 43.3 Statement of comprehensive income Gain on pension scheme assets 96.9 9.1 0.4 106.4 Changes in assumptions 123.8 24.8 4.9 153.5 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 26.9 15.7 4.5 47.1 Deferred tax credited to equity 20 5.6 2.5 0.6 8.7 Remeasurements loss net of deferred tax 21.3 13.2 3.9 38.4 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Fair value of plan assets 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 Retirement benefit liabilities 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,248.8 230.2 12.2 1,491.2 Fair value of plan assets 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Retirement benefit liabilities 220.9 56.4 4.7 282.0 Other includes the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director, for 1.0m 2013: 0.9m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 165 Notes to the Financial Statements continued The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2014 % m % m Equities 44.7 466.6 61.3 113.2 Government bonds 31.2 325.2 14.3 26.4 Corporate bonds 12.8 133.8 14.4 26.5 Property 3.8 39.2 9.7 17.9 Cash 1.1 11.5 0.3 0.6 Other 6.4 67.2 0.0 100.0 1,043.5 100.0 184.6 Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2013 % m % m Equities 42.3 435.3 62.1 107.9 Government bonds 34.4 353.1 14.0 24.3 Corporate bonds 19.0 195.5 14.1 24.5 Property 3.9 39.6 9.4 16.4 Cash 0.4 4.4 0.4 0.7 100.0 1,027.9 100.0 173.8 The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets, of the Group.
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,248.8 230.2 12.2 1,491.2 Service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 56.7 10.4 0.3 67.4 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefit payments 38.0 6.7 0.3 45.0 Difference on exchange 0.3 0.3 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,302.1 245.3 13.1 1,560.5 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,116.5 203.4 7.1 1,327.0 Service cost 0.2 1.9 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain 1.4 1.4 Interest cost 57.3 10.3 0.4 68.0 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 123.8 24.8 4.9 153.5 Employee contributions 0.1 1.4 1.5 Benefit payments 47.7 7.5 0.2 55.4 Difference on exchange Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,248.8 230.2 12.2 1,491.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 166 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Interest return on plan assets 47.3 7.9 0.2 55.4 Employer contributions 32.2 2.9 0.4 35.5 Employee contributions 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 38.0 6.7 0.3 45.0 Remeasurements loss gain recognised in other comprehensive expense 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Difference on exchange 0.2 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,043.5 184.6 8.2 1,236.3 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 Interest return on plan assets 46.8 8.2 0.3 55.3 Settlement loss 1.3 1.3 Employer contributions 21.2 2.4 0.3 23.9 Employee contributions 0.1 1.4 1.5 Benefits paid 47.7 7.5 0.2 55.4 Remeasurements gain recognised in other comprehensive expense 96.9 9.1 0.4 106.4 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Movements in the net retirement benefit liabilities are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year restated 220.9 56.4 4.7 282.0 Service cost 0.1 2.0 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 9.4 2.5 0.1 12.0 Contributions 32.2 2.9 0.4 35.5 Remeasurements gain recognised in other comprehensive expense 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 258.6 60.7 4.9 324.2 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Net retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year restated 204.6 43.2 0.5 248.3 Service cost 0.2 1.9 2.1 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs 10.5 2.1 12.6 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain 0.1 0.1 Contributions 21.2 2.4 0.3 23.9 Remeasurements loss recognised in other comprehensive expense 26.9 15.7 4.5 47.1 Net retirement benefit liabilities at end of year restated 220.9 56.4 4.7 282.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 167 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Cumulative remeasurement effects recognised in Other Comprehensive Income are as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year 194.1 34.2 11.2 239.5 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 60.4 2.5 0.6 63.5 Loss from change in financial assumptions 41.2 7.2 1.2 49.6 Experience gains losses 6.7 0.5 6.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 34.5 7.7 1.2 43.4 Return on plan assets less greater than discount rate 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Losses at the end of year 254.5 36.7 11.8 303.0 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Losses at the beginning of year restated 167.2 18.5 6.7 192.4 Net remeasurement losses recognised in the year: 26.9 15.7 4.5 47.1 Loss from change in financial assumptions 123.8 22.9 4.9 151.6 Experience losses 1.9 1.9 Actuarial loss on defined benefit obligation arising during the year 123.8 24.8 4.9 153.5 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate 96.9 9.1 0.4 106.4 Losses at the end of year restated 194.1 34.2 11.2 239.5 The return on plan assets is as follows: Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2014 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 47.3 7.9 0.2 55.4 Experience loss gain on plan assets 25.9 5.2 0.6 20.1 Actual return on plan assets 21.4 13.1 0.8 35.3 Atkins Railways Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 46.8 8.2 0.3 55.3 Experience gain on plan assets 96.9 9.1 0.4 106.4 Actual return on plan assets 143.7 17.3 0.7 161.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 168 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued History of experience gains and losses: Restated 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total Total Total Total Total Experience loss gain on scheme assets 20.1 m 106.4m 83.8m 2.5 m 125.2m Percentage of scheme assets 1.6 % 8.8% 7.8% 0.3 % 14.2% Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 6.2m 1.9 m 4.4m 43.8m 0.3 m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 0.4 % 0.1% 0.3 % 3.4 % Defined benefit obligation 1,560.5 m 1,491.2 m 1,329.8 m 1,282.1 m 1,322.7 m Fair value of plan assets 1,236.3m 1,209.2m 1,078.7m 944.3m 882.7m Net retirement benefit liabilities 324.2 m 282.0 m 251.1 m 337.8 m 440.0 m The Group completed its last triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 and is therefore due to complete its next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2016.
The Group considers that the contribution rates set at the recent valuation date are sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period.
The nature of the funding regime in the UK creates uncertainty around the size and timing of cash that the Company will be required to pay to the pension schemes.
The Group has agreed that it will proceed with a new repayment plan that ends in March 2025, with one-off payments of 32m for each of the two years ending 31 March 2015, which escalate thereafter at 2.5% per annum.
The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2015 to be around 34.9m, of which 32m is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be around 1.5m.
Expected benefit payments made directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2015 are nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows: Change in assumption Effect on plan liabilities Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Discount rate increase decrease 0.5% decrease increase 10.0% decrease increase 8.0% Inflation increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 5.0% increase decrease 8.0% Real rate of increase in salaries increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 2.0% increase decrease 1.0% Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding change in salary increases and inflation-related pension increases.
b Other post-employment benefit liabilities The Group operates unfunded schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses, including gratuity schemes, Key Employee Supplemental Option Plans KESOP and post-retirement medical benefit schemes.
Members of the gratuity schemes are entitled to receive a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary.
Valuation of the gratuity obligation is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The Group operates a KESOP providing some key officers and employees in its North American business the business with post-retirement benefits, known as the Supplemental Income Program SIP.
The SIP is an unfunded plan that provides participants with retirement income for a specified period of between 5 and 15 years upon retirement, death or disability.
The plan fixes a minimum level for retirement benefits to be paid to participants based on the participants position in the business, their age and length of service at retirement.
Additionally, certain executive agreements have been amended to provide post-retirement medical benefits to those employees and their spouses, at a level substantially similar to those medical and hospitalisation benefits paid and provided to senior executives currently employed by the business.
The insurance benefits will be provided without any further or additional services from the employee to the business and they will be paid for and provided for as long as the employee and their spouse shall live.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 169 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group 2014 2013 Note m m Other post-employment obligations at beginning of year 13.6 14.2 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 10 0.4 Current service cost and other comprehensive income 3.8 2.0 Past service cost and other comprehensive income 1.5 Interest cost 0.6 0.7 Net measurement loss recognised in the year 0.1 0.2 Benefit payments 3.8 4.2 Difference on exchange 1.4 0.7 Other post-employment obligations at end of year 14.8 13.6 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benefits are listed in the table below: 2014 2013 Gratuity scheme Discount rate 5.00% 5.00% Salary inflation 3.00% 3.00% Average remaining service period 2 years 2 years KESOP scheme Discount rate 1.05% 1.05% Medical plan Discount rate 4.00% 3.75% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 7.50% 7.50% Rate of decline of cost trend rate 5.00% 5.00% Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate 2022 2021 c Post-employment benefit liabilities Risks Through its defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit liabilities, the Group is exposed to a number of investment and actuarial risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The Retirement benefit plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and Irish plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while exposing the Group to greater volatility and valuation risk in the short-term.
The government bonds represent investments in UK Government securities only.
Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK and Irish plans, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Atkins Pension Plan has had interest and inflation rate hedging in place for some time, but due to the relative immaturity of the longevity hedging market, to date the Group has held off implementing a longevity hedging programme.
As a consequence, the Plan remains fully exposed to any future improvements in mortality beyond those already assumed by the Actuary.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 170 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
The Group does not use derivatives or hedging, other than interest and inflation rate hedging, to manage its risk.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets in 2014 consists of equities and bonds, although the Group also invests in property, cash and investment hedge funds.
The Group believes that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
The majority of equities are in a globally diversified portfolio of international blue chip entities.
A breakdown of the major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets for the two UK schemes is detailed above.
Expected maturity analysis of other post-employment benefit liabilities are as follows: Less than Between Between Over At 31 March 2014 a year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total KESOP $m 0.4 0.3 0.4 1.1 Post-retirement medical benefit schemes $m 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.9 An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations for the two main defined benefit schemes is given in the table below: Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2014 2013 2014 2013 % % % % Proportion relating to active members 0.0 0.0 37.0 38.0 Proportion relating to deferred members 61.0 67.0 16.0 16.0 Proportion relating to pensioners 39.0 33.0 47.0 46.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20 years 2013: 20 years for the Atkins Pension Plan, 16 years 2013: 16 years for the Railways Pension Scheme and between 25 and 30 years 2013: between 25 and 30 years for the McCarthy Pension Plan.
Expected future benefit payments from the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan are mostly in respect of pension payments that are either linked to price inflation or receive fixed pension increases.
These projected benefit payments are expected to be made from the Plan over the next 80 or so years.
The payments are expected to rise over the next 30 years, when they will peak, before beginning to decline.
The Group expects pension benefits to be paid by the schemes during the financial year to 31 March 2015 to be approximately 46.7m.
Other non-current liabilities Group 2014 2013 m m Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered, maturing: Later than one year and no later than two years 0.1 0.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.2 0.2 Later than five years 1.2 1.2 1.5 1.5 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 171 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 34.
Ordinary shares Group and Company 2014 2013 No.
shares m Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each At 1 April and at 31 March 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5 At the 2013 annual general meeting AGM, shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10,011,000 of its own ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 12 June 2013 for a period ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 31 October 2014, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met.
The notice of meeting for the AGM to be held at 1100 hours on Wednesday 30 July 2014 proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority.
Shares in the Company may also be purchased by Atkins EBTs.
As at the date of this report there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5 pence each nominal value 21,705 held as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2014 2013: nil.
The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% 2013: 4.2% of the total of the called up share capital as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled and represent a deduction from shareholders equity.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plans WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan LGU August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives where units are granted at a base price which is normally based on the six-month average share price calculated at the date of grant.
The vesting of units occurs in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to a strategic underpin which is considered by the Remuneration Committee.
On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the increase, if any, in the average share price of one notional Company share between the grant date and the exercise date.
Any such increase will normally be calculated using the six-month average share price.
No more than 50% of a participants total number of units subject to a single grant may be exercised in any 12-month rolling period.
The increase will usually be delivered in the form of a nil cost option except in the US, where awards are granted as market value options and are scaled back on exercise to allow only the exercise of options equivalent to the gain that would have been made under a non-US award.
The units will generally be settled in equity.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they receive a pro rata entitlement.
WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives used to grant awards that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Subject to the Companys real growth in absolute EPS over the performance period.
The growth target requires the increase to be more than 12% per annum in the three-year performance period to allow full vesting.
If the increase is less than 5% per annum, there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 5% per annum, vesting will be at 25%, and a sliding scale operates between 5% and 12% per annum.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2006 to July 2012 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There are different performance targets for different categories of management.
Grants made to executive directors and senior employees have 50% of the grant subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting of this portion of the grant will take place if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile and 30% vesting will be achieved with a median ranking, with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.
No vesting will occur for a ranking below median.
The remaining 50% of the grant made to executive directors and senior employees is subject to the Companys real growth in underlying EPS over the performance period.
For the 2006 and subsequent grants, the growth target requires the increase to be more than 10% per annum above the UK RPI in the three-year performance period to allow full vesting.
If the increase is less than 4% per annum above the UK RPI, then there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 4% per annum above the UK RPI, vesting will be at 30%, and a sliding scale operates between 4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
Awards granted to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant without interest.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 172 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2003 to August 2006 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
The performance condition was TSR with an EPS growth underpin measured over three financial years starting with the financial year beginning immediately after the award was granted.
Full vesting of any award took place for a TSR performance where the Company ranked in the top 20% in a group of up to 16 comparator companies, 30% vesting for median ranking and no vesting if TSR fell below the median.
The EPS underpin was the UK RPI plus 2% per annum.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who left employment prior to vesting were forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received a pro rata entitlement.
All awards have now vested.
Deferred Share Plans Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for at least three years from the date of grant.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they will receive their award in full.
Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period from the date of grant, fixed by the Remuneration Committee at grant.
Awards granted to executive directors in relation to the executive bonus scheme are restricted for three years from the date of grant.
The Groups share-based payments charge for the year of 10.2m 2013: 7.5m has been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Groups results and financial position is as follows: Group 2014 2013 m m Total expense recognised for equity settled share-based payment transactions 6.7 6.5 Total expense recognised for cash settled share-based payment transactions 3.5 1.0 10.2 7.5 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share-based payment transactions 4.7 2.5 As at 31 March 2014 the following awards were outstanding: LTIPs LGU DBP DSP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise exercise exercise transfer transfer transfer No.
price Awards outstanding at 1 April 2012 745,567 2,986,816 Granted 284,215 209,768 207.19 p 1,215,077 Exercised transferred 61,226 753,101 Lapsed 250,221 4,000 Forfeited 112,390 Awards outstanding at 1 April 2013 718,335 209,768 207.19 p 3,332,402 Granted 192,512 162,880 294.22 p 1,222,668 Exercised transferred 52,614 1,107,703 Lapsed 187,911 3,270 Forfeited 33,901 11,479 155,112 Awards outstanding at 31 March 2014 636,421 361,169 253.02 p 3,288,985 The weighted average exercise price of LGU awards is calculated by reference to both non-US awards, where the increase in value is delivered in the form of a nil cost option, and US awards, where the awards take the form of market value options.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1,100.14 pence 2013: 743.93 pence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 173 Notes to the Financial Statements continued A summary of awards outstanding as at 31 March 2014 is as follows: Weighted average Awards Awards remaining outstanding exercisable Scheme Maximum contractual at 31 March at 31 March Scheme Award date Exercise price maturity term life 2014 2014 LGUs LGU August 2012 13 08 2012 onwards non-US to 26 06 2013 0.0p 4 to 6 years 10 years 8.77 years 246,783 LGU August 2012 13 08 2012 667.0p onwards US to 26 06 2013 to 973.5p 4 to 6 years 10 years 8.75 years 114,386 LTIPs LTIP August 2012 13 08 2012 onwards to 24 06 2013 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 7.62 years 442,826 LTIP September 2006 03 08 2007 to July 2012 TSR EPS to 20 06 2011 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 7.19 years 158,057 1,600 LTIP September 2006 11 09 2006 to July 2012 EPS to 30 11 2007 0.0p 3 years 3 to 10 years 3.03 years 33,588 33,588 LTIP September 2003 17 09 2003 to August 2006 to 25 06 2004 0.0p 3 to 4 years 10 years 0.24 years 1,950 1,950 DSPs 25 06 2004 DBP to 30 11 2007 0.0p 3 years 10 years 2.24 years 37,670 37,670 29 06 2007 DSP to 19 11 2012 0.0p 1 to 3 years 1 to 10 years 7.12 years 3,251,315 316,124 On 24 June 2013 the Company issued awards over 1,097,236 shares to employees under the DSP, 192,512 shares to employees under LTIP and 162,880 units to employees under the LGU.
On 21 November 2013 the Company issued awards over 109,251 shares to employees under the DSP.
On 5 December 2013 the Company issued awards over 16,181 shares to employees under the DSP.
At 31 March 2014 the Companys EBTs held a beneficial interest in 2,524,663 shares 2013: 2,831,737 shares at a nominal value of 0.0m 2013: 0.0m and market value of 35.1m 2013: 25.8m.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 936.34 pence 2013: 689.36 pence.
The total fair value of awards granted during the year was 14.8m 2013: 10.3m.
Fair value of awards with market performance conditions WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan August 2012 onwards The Black Scholes Model was used for the purposes of valuing LGU awards granted in the current year.
The model calculated the fair value of awards granted, upon which the share-based payments charge is based.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: LGU 2014 Exercise price six-month average at grant date 866.51p 866.51p 866.51p Risk-free interest rate 1.143% 1.626% 1.718% Volatility of share price 34.0% 34.0% 34.0% Share price at grant 973.00p 973.00p 973.00p Base value six-month average share price at grant date 866.51p 866.51p 866.51p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 174 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued LGU 2013 Exercise price six-month average at grant date 718.32p 718.32p 718.32p Risk-free interest rate 0.330% 0.537% 0.711% Volatility of share price 35.0% 35.0% 35.0% Share price at grant 670.00p 670.00p 670.00p Base value six-month average share price at grant date 718.32p 718.32p 718.32p Expected term from grant date 4 years 5 years 6 years 36.
Cash generated from continuing operations Group Group Company Company Restated 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m m m Profit for the year 96.3 84.3 43.7 23.4 Adjustments for: Income tax 8 17.9 13.7 Finance income 7 4.2 3.4 2.6 2.2 Finance costs 7 17.8 17.7 5.2 4.4 Income from other investments 1.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 4 2.4 3.8 Other non-cash income costs 3.5 4.5 Depreciation charges 18 14.7 14.6 Net profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 9 10.5 4.5 0.5 Profit on disposal of loan notes 0.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 17 7.5 14.0 Release of deferred income 30 3.1 Share-based payment charge 35 6.7 6.5 Pensions settlement and curtailment gain 32 4.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.1 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 22 0.8 Dividends received 45.4 16.1 Movement in provisions 31 1.8 4.7 Movement in inventories 25 0.2 0.1 Movement in trade and other receivables 26 20.1 4.4 5.2 5.7 Movement in payables 30 29.9 31.5 9.6 10.3 Movement in non-current payables 0.7 0.3 Pension deficit funding 32 32.0 21.0 Cash generated from continuing operations 95.5 82.9 4.7 13.6 As detailed in note 1, during the year the Group adopted and retrospectively applied IAS 19 revised 2011.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2013 and, consequently, the analysis of cash generated from continuing operations shown above has been restated accordingly.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 175 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 37.
Analysis of net funds Other nonAt 1 April Cash cash Exchange 31 March 2013 flow changes movement 2014 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 201.5 42.8 7.0 237.3 Loan notes receivable 20.0 0.1 0.4 20.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 35.9 4.2 0.2 31.5 Borrowings due no later than one year 59.8 4.6 55.2 Borrowings due later than one year 49.3 3.8 45.5 Finance leases 5.3 0.6 4.6 0.1 Net funds 143.0 39.1 4.8 1.4 188.3 Included within loan notes receivable is 0.4m relating to amounts receivable within less than 12 months from a joint venture entity.
Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of performance and contractual related bonds, as well as letters of credit issued on its behalf.
The amount outstanding at 31 March 2014 includes 3.3m letters of credit issued as a result of the acquisition of PBSJ.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group acquired PBSJ.
Prior to the acquisition, the Audit Committee of the Board of directors of PBSJ undertook an internal investigation to determine whether any laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, had been violated in connection with certain projects undertaken by PBS&J International, Inc. one of PBSJs subsidiary undertakings.
The investigation suggested that FCPA violations may have occurred but did not extend beyond the international operation and that none of PBSJs executive management were involved in criminal conduct.
PBSJ voluntarily disclosed this matter to the Department of Justice and to the Securities and Exchange Commission and is cooperating fully with their review.
The FCPA provides for penalties, criminal and civil sanctions and other remedies.
Neither at the date of acquisition nor at subsequent year ends has management been able to estimate the potential penalties that may be imposed and therefore no provision has been made.
It is not considered possible to determine an accurate estimate of the fines and penalties that may be imposed as they are not formula driven or in any way the result of a predefined calculation.
The Group does not have an estimate of when this will be resolved but it is considered possible to be within the next financial year.
Group companies are from time to time involved in claims and litigation.
The Group carries Professional Indemnity insurance cover for such claims.
Operating lease arrangements The Group leases various offices under operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under operating lease arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2014 2013 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m No later than one year 39.8 6.8 44.1 8.9 Later than one year and no later than five years 90.5 7.7 94.9 12.6 Later than five years 25.5 38.3 155.8 14.5 177.3 21.5 In the prior year, vehicles, plant and equipment included future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases of 0.3m and 0.1m expiring no later than one year and later than one year but no later than five years respectively, relating to the Groups UK highways services business.
This business was disclosed as an asset held for sale at 31 March 2013.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 176 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable as follows: 2014 2013 Property Property Group m m No later than one year 1.8 2.5 Later than one year and no later than five years 3.9 4.3 Later than five years 0.1 0.5 5.8 7.3 The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2014 2013: none.
Capital and other financial commitments Group 2014 2013 m m Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred property, plant and equipment 6.0 2.9 41.
Related party transactions Details of the directors shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report page 81, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 32.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are shown in note 42 and its principal joint ventures in note 43.
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external customers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provision has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and nil charged to income and expense 2013: nil.
a Group sales and purchases of goods and services Group 2014 2013 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 61.9 40.0 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures b Group year end balances arising from sales purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures and loans provided to joint ventures Group 2014 2013 Note m m Receivables from joint ventures 26 7.7 7.3 Receivables from joint ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of nil 2013: nil.
Payables to joint ventures c Group year end balances arising from loans provided to other related parties Group 2014 2013 Note m m Receivables from related parties 24 19.9 20.0 d Company sales purchases of goods and services to from subsidiaries The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year 2013: nil.
The Company did not purchase any goods or services from its subsidiaries during the year 2013: nil.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 177 Notes to the Financial Statements continued e Company year end balances with subsidiaries Company 2014 2013 Note m m Receivables from subsidiaries 26 164.2 165.2 Payables to subsidiaries 30 76.2 82.0 Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of 0.5m 2013: 0.5m.
f Key management compensation Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the senior leadership team.
Group 2014 2013 m m Short term employee benefits 6.7 6.3 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 Share-based payments 2.6 1.8 9.5 8.2 The deferred share award element of any bonus paid to key management is not included in the salaries and other short term employment benefits number as it is included in the share-based payment charge in subsequent years.
Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2014: Country of Class and registration percentage Name incorporation of shares held Nature of business 1 Atkins Australasia Pty Ltd Australia 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Beta Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins China Limited Hong Kong 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Consultants Shenzen Co Ltd China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Danmark A S Denmark 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Gamma Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins Investments UK Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins North America, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Faithful Gould, Inc USA 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Faithful Gould Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost estimators 1 PRBC, Inc. USA 100% ordinary Construction management services 1 The Atkins North America Holdings Corporation USA 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins India Private Limited India 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance 1 WS Atkins International Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held.
The Group holds the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be filed at Companies House with the Companys Annual Return.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 178 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 43.
Joint ventures The following represents the principal joint ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Date of last Proportion audited of shares financial External 2 Name Nature of business interest held statements auditors Connect Plus Services Joint venture undertaking operation and maintenance 32.5% N A N A 1 unincorporated work on the M25, Londons orbital motorway.
1 Engage SNC A French general partnership providing architect 25.0% 31 Dec 2013 KPMG S. A. engineering services for the ITER programme, a nuclear fusion reactor in France.
Nuclear Atkins Assystem A French general partnership providing consultancy 50.0% 31 Dec 2013 KPMG S. A.
1 Alliance SNC and engineering services to the international nuclear new-build market, operating internationally from offices in France.
Proportion of shares held where incorporated is in respect of ordinary share capital.
There are no special rights or constraints on the shares.
There are no restrictions on distributions from any of these joint ventures.
Prior period amounts During the year the Group adopted IAS 19 revised 2011 which increased net finance costs in the Consolidated Income Statement with a corresponding restatement of the actuarial movements in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In addition, unvested past service cost and administration costs have been recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement, which has also had a small impact on the Groups defined benefit liabilities.
The Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity and notes for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been restated accordingly.
The effects on the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: As previously Effect of As restated reported IAS 19 revised Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 2013 2013 2013 m m m Consolidated Income Statement Operating profit 104.1 0.1 104.0 Profit before interest and tax 112.4 0.1 112.3 Net finance costs 9.1 5.2 14.3 Profit before tax 103.3 5.3 98.0 Income tax expense 14.9 1.2 13.7 Profit for the year 88.4 4.1 84.3 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 91.0p 4.2 p 86.8p Diluted earnings per share 88.8p 4.1 p 84.7p Statement of Comprehensive Income Profit for the year 88.4 4.1 84.3 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of net post-employment benefit liabilities 52.8 5.7 47.1 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 9.9 1.2 8.7 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 42.9 4.5 38.4 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 8.8 8.8 Other comprehensive expense income for the year, net of tax 34.1 4.5 29.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 54.3 0.4 54.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 179 Five-year Summary Consolidated Income Statements for years ended 31 March 1 Restated 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Gross revenue Group and share of joint ventures 1,815.2 1,775.5 1,769.8 1,612.0 1,418.0 Revenue 1,750.1 1,705.2 1,711.1 1,564.3 1,387.9 Cost of sales 1,065.0 1,088.6 1,097.1 975.2 854.6 Gross profit 685.1 616.6 614.0 589.1 533.3 Administrative expenses 571.4 512.6 476.8 482.1 420.3 Operating profit 113.7 104.0 137.2 107.0 113.0 Profit on disposal of businesses, non-controlling interests and joint ventures 10.5 4.5 7.2 0.1 Income from other investments 1.2 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 2.4 3.8 1.9 1.9 1.9 Profit before interest and tax 127.8 112.3 146.3 105.1 111.2 Finance income 4.2 3.4 4.1 3.9 3.8 Finance costs 17.8 17.7 14.9 18.0 18.4 Net finance costs 13.6 14.3 10.8 14.1 14.6 Profit before tax 114.2 98.0 135.5 91.0 96.6 Income tax expense 17.9 13.7 28.7 18.4 19.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 96.3 84.3 106.8 72.6 77.3 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 25.0 Profit for the year 96.3 84.3 106.8 72.6 102.3 Profit loss attributable to: Owners of the parent 96.0 84.6 106.7 72.6 102.3 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 0.1 96.3 84.3 106.8 72.6 102.3 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 98.4 p 86.8 p 109.0 p 74.3 p 79.5 p discontinued operations 25.7 p 98.4 p 86.8 p 109.0 p 74.3 p 105.2 p Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 95.8 p 84.7 p 106.6 p 72.7 p 77.9 p discontinued operations 25.2 p 95.8 p 84.7 p 106.6 p 72.7 p 103.1 p 1.
The 2013 figures have been restated for the amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
None of the years prior to 2012 have been restated.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Financial Statements 181 Five-year Summary continued Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for the years ended 31 March 1 Restated 2013 2014 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Cash generated from operations Profit for the year 96.3 84.3 106.8 72.6 77.3 Adjustments for: Income tax 17.9 13.7 28.7 18.4 19.3 Finance income 4.2 3.4 4.1 3.9 3.8 Finance costs 17.8 17.7 14.9 18.0 18.4 Income from other investments 1.2 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 2.4 3.8 1.9 1.9 1.9 Other non-cash income costs 3.5 4.5 2.9 5.1 0.1 Depreciation charges 14.7 14.6 17.1 15.9 15.3 Profit on disposal of businesses, non-controlling interests and joint ventures 10.5 4.5 7.2 0.1 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 7.5 14.0 9.5 8.3 7.5 Release of deferred income 3.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 Share-based payment charge 6.7 6.5 6.4 5.7 6.8 Pensions settlement and curtailment gain 4.4 33.3 6.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 0.2 1.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.1 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 Movement in provisions 1.8 4.7 5.7 3.8 5.9 Movement in working capital 10.3 26.7 34.0 37.7 31.5 Pension deficit funding 32.0 21.0 26.0 31.9 36.3 Cash generated from operations 95.5 82.9 68.6 68.5 126.5 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operating activities 95.5 82.9 68.6 68.5 126.5 Interest received 3.6 2.6 3.9 3.1 3.4 Interest paid 5.6 3.2 2.5 2.4 1.1 Income tax paid 10.9 7.1 11.0 12.3 18.0 Net cash generated from operating activities 82.6 75.2 59.0 56.9 110.8 Cash flows from investing activities 0.4 5.4 35.9 196.5 21.1 Cash flows used in generated from financing activities 40.2 38.8 22.5 7.3 40.5 Net increase decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 42.8 31.0 45.6 132.3 49.2 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 201.5 167.0 121.5 260.3 209.7 Exchange movements 7.0 3.5 0.1 6.5 1.4 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 237.3 201.5 167.0 121.5 260.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 31.5 35.9 35.0 34.7 32.4 Loan notes receivable 20.3 20.0 25.1 20.1 21.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 6.1 Borrowings due no later than one year 55.2 59.8 104.0 46.3 0.7 Borrowings due later than one year 45.5 49.3 Finance leases 0.1 5.3 6.6 6.7 10.7 Net funds 188.3 143.0 122.6 123.3 302.5 1.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
