Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122 Directors report continued The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, reviews comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS the effectiveness of the Companys internal control processes Regulation and that the Companys financial statements and formally at least once a year.
The Board considers the system to the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies be effective and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
assets of the Group and the Company, and hence for taking Further information on the principal internal controls in use in reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the Company is to be found on pages 64 to 71. and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Auditors of the corporate and financial information included on the  LLP is willing to continue in of ce Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom as independent auditor of the Company, and a resolution governing the preparation and dissemination of financial to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors listed below being the Board of Directors Disclosure of relevant audit information at the date of this Annual Report and these financial statements So far as the Directors who are in of ce at the time of the con rms that to the best of his or her knowledge: approval of this report are aware, there is no relevant audit information namely, information needed by the Companys the Group financial statements set out on pages 127 to 174 auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as report of which the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group taken as Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any a whole: and relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors the Strategic report and Directors report contained on are aware of that information.
pages 2 to 122 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Directors responsibility statement Group, together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and uncertainties that it faces.
the Directors Remuneration report and the Groups and the Companys financial statements in accordance with In addition, each of the directors listed below considers that applicable law.
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business statements for each financial year.
In accordance with that law, model and strategy.
the Directors have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Mike Turner Chairman IFRS as adopted in the European Union, and the Companys Peter Rogers Chief Executive financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report in Bill Tame Group Finance Director accordance with applicable law and UK Generally Accepted Archie Bethel CEO, Marine and Technology Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Groups and the Companys financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair Kevin Thomas CEO, Support Services view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and John Davies CEO, Defence and Security of the pro t and loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing Justin Crookenden Non-Executive Director those financial statements the Directors are required to: Sir David Omand Non-Executive Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply Ian Duncan Non-Executive Director them consistently: Kate Swann Non-Executive Director make judgements and accounting estimates that are Anna Stewart Non-Executive Director reasonable and prudent: Jeff Randall Non-Executive Director state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Approval of the Strategic report and the and applicable UK Accounting Standards, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Directors report explained in the Groups and Companys financial statements The Strategic report pages 2 to 71 and the Directors report respectively: and pages 117 to 122 for the year ending 31 March 2014 have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys Mike Turner CBE transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Chairman the financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements 19 May 2014 Financials Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Babcock International Group PLC, comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity and Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole to be 14 million.
This represents approximately 5% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation on acquired intangibles.
We believe using profit before tax adjusted for amortisation on acquired intangibles more appropriately reflects the underlying business.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is primarily structured and monitored across four divisions being Marine and Technology, Defence and Security, Support Services and International.
The financial statements are a consolidation of the Groups reporting units, which include operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Accordingly, we identified 27 reporting units, spread across the divisions, which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
We also performed specific risk based audit procedures on specific financial statement line items at one further reporting unit and three joint venture entities to primarily address the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to pensions, treasury and taxation gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 86.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Contract accounting and fraud in revenue recognition We read all key contracts and discussed with management to ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue obtain a full understanding of the terms and risks to inform our recognition when management are under pressure to achieve consideration of whether revenue was appropriately recognised.
In addition, due to the contracting nature of We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating the business, revenue recognition involves a significant degree effectiveness of internal controls over the completeness, accuracy of judgement with respect to total contract costs, extent of and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements, completion and the recognition of one off pain gain share including controls over contract reviews and assessing the amounts.
We performed tests to agree revenue back to supporting documentation as well as testing We focused on this area due to the complex and judgemental the appropriateness of all significant one off pain gain share nature of the timing and amount of revenue to recognise arrangements and testing of revenue adjustments recognised on contracts.
Pension liabilities We considered and challenged the reasonableness of key actuarial The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, assumptions including pensionable salary increases, inflation, giving rise to pension liabilities refer to note 27 in the notes to discount rates and mortality, using benchmark ranges based on market conditions and expectations at the balance sheet date and the Group financial statements.
comparison across the wider pensions industry.
We also performed We focused on this area because of the magnitude of the testing to agree underlying membership data to supporting payroll pension liabilities in the context of the overall balance sheet documentation and assessed the appropriateness of the closing and the inherent judgement and technical expertise required liability based on known movements and assumptions.
Changes in key assumptions can have a material impact on the liability recorded.
Goodwill impairment assessment We evaluated the Directors cash flow forecasts: including The Directors assess the carrying value of goodwill and conduct comparing them to the latest Board approved budgets.
We an annual impairment review refer to note 13 in the notes to the challenged the Directors key assumptions, including the long financial statements.
term growth rate by comparison to historic growth rates and managements budgets and the discount rate by independently We focused on this area because of the materiality of the estimating a range based on market data and analysis of goodwill balance and because it involves complex and subjective comparable companies.
We performed sensitivity analysis around judgements by the Directors about near term and long term sales these assumptions to ascertain the extent of change that either growth rates, costs and the projected operating margins.
individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
We then considered the likelihood of such movement in those key assumptions arising.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions and interviewed senior management and the Groups Internal Audit function.
We considered whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements.
We performed unpredictable audit procedures and tested journal entries including consolidation entries.
Financials Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 121, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 122 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 86, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 126 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 122, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the company financial statements of Babcock International Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
John Baker Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 19 May 2014
