166 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar Unsolicited telephone calls 2015 In the past, some of our shareholders have 14 May Annual General Meeting received unsolicited telephone calls or 21 May Ex-dividend date for July 2015 preference dividend correspondence concerning investment 22 May July 2015 preference dividend record date matters from organisations or persons 3 July Preference dividend payable claiming or implying that they have some 12 August Announcement of 2015 half-year results connection with the Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers Provisional date.
who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in UK or overseas Registrars International payment service investments.
Shareholders are advised All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders outside the UK may elect to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, shareholdings and requests to receive to receive dividends direct into their offers to buy shares at a discount or corporate documents by email should, overseas bank account, or by currency offers of free reports on the Company.
in the first instance, be directed to the draft, instead of by sterling cheque.
Companys Registrars and clearly state For further information, contact the If you receive any unsolicited investment your registered address and, if available, Companys Registrars on 44 20 8639 advice: your shareholder reference number.
3405 from outside the UK or 0871 664 always ensure the firm is on the Please write to: 0385 from the UK calls cost 10p per Financial Conduct Authority FCA minute plus network extras.
Lines Capita Asset Services, The Registry, Register and is allowed to give financial are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent advice before handing over your money.
Alternatively, you can BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from You can check via http: www.
com the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus uk register home.
do and click on the link for International network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 Payment Service.
double-check the caller is from the firm from outside the UK Monday to Friday they say they are ask for their name 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time.
Shareholder information on the and telephone number and say you will Alternatively, you can email: internet and electronic call them back.
Check their identity by Shareholderenquiries@capita.
communications calling the firm using the contact Our website www.
com They can help you to: check your number listed on the FCA Register.
If provides a range of information about shareholding: register a change of address there are no contact details on the FCA the Company, our people and businesses or name: obtain a replacement dividend Register or you are told that they are out and our policies on corporate governance cheque or tax voucher: record the death of date, or if you have any other doubts, and corporate responsibility.
It should be of a shareholder.
call the FCA Consumer Helpline on regarded as your first point of reference 0800 111 6768 Dividends and dividend for information on any of these matters.
check the FCAs list of known reinvestment plan The share price can also be found there.
unauthorised overseas firms at http: Dividends may be paid directly into your You can create a Share Portal account, www.
However, these firms bank or building society account through through which you will be able to access change names regularly, so even if a the Bankers Automated Clearing System the full range of online shareholder firm is not listed, it does not mean they BACS.
The Registrars can provide services, including the ability to: view are legitimate.
Always check that they a dividend mandate form.
A dividend your holdings and indicative share price are listed on the FCA Register reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which and valuation: view movements on your allows holders of ordinary shares to if you are approached about a share holdings and your dividend payment reinvest their cash dividends in the scam, you should inform the FCA using history: register a dividend mandate Companys shares through a specially the share fraud reporting form at to have your dividends paid directly arranged share dealing service.
uk consumers scams into your bank account: change your of the DRIP and its charges, together report-scam share-fraud-form, where registered address: sign up to receive withmandate forms, are available at you can also find out about the latest e-communications or access the online www.
investment scams or alternatively, you proxy voting facility: and download can call the FCA Consumer Helpline and print shareholder forms.
If you use an unauthorised The Share Portal is easy to use.
Please firm to buy or sell shares or other visit www.
investments, you will not have access Alternatively, you can email: to the Financial Ombudsman Service shareportal@capita.
or be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 167 you should also report any approach Capital gains tax CGT toAction Fraud, who are the UKs For CGT purposes the market value on national fraud reporting centre at 31March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plcs www.
uk, or by ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p calling 0300 123 2040. per share.
This has been adjusted for the 1for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 for Gifting shares to your family 11 rights issue in September 1996 and or to charity the 3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 To transfer shares to another member and assumes that all rights have been of your family as a gift, please ask the takenup.
Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer Consolidated tax vouchers form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax number of shares whose value makes it voucher annually to all shareholders who uneconomic to sell them, you may wish have their dividends paid direct to their to consider donating them to the share bank accounts.
If you would prefer to donation charity ShareGift registered receive a tax voucher at each dividend charity no.
1052686, whose work payment date rather than annually, please BalfourBeatty supports.
A copy of the Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be consolidated tax voucher may be aggregated, sold when possible, and the downloaded from the Share Portal at proceeds will be donated to a wide range www.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 18m has been given to Enquiries more than 2,000 charities.
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position The relevant share transfer form may be should be made in writing to the Corporate obtained from the Registrars.
For more Communications Department at the information visit www.
address shown below or by email to Share dealing services info@balfourbeatty.
Capita Share Dealing Services a trading Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited 130Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ provide a telephone and online share Registered in England Number 395826 dealing service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras and 44 20 3367 2686 from outside the UK Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can log on to www.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct cross-border business within the EEA under the provisions of the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
London Stock Exchange Codes The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: Ordinary shares: 0096162.
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: BBY: Preference shares: BBYB.
com AR2014 168 Forward-looking statements No representation or warranty is made Follow us on: This document may include certain that any of these statements or forecasts forward-looking statements, beliefs or will come to pass or that any forecast opinions, including statements with results will be achieved.
Forward-looking Twitter respect to Balfour Beatty plcs business, statements speak only as at the date of @balfourbeatty financial condition and results of this document and Balfour Beatty plc operations.
These forward-looking and its advisers expressly disclaim any statements can be identified by the use obligations or undertaking to release offorward-looking terminology, including anyupdate of, or revisions to, any LinkedIn the terms believes, estimates, plans, forward-looking statements in this linkedin.
com company balfour-beatty-plc anticipates, targets, aims, continues, document.
No statement in thedocument expects, intends, hopes, may, will, is intended to be, or intended to be would, could orshould or in each construed as, a profit forecast orto be Facebook case, their negative or other various interpreted to mean that earnings per facebook.
These Balfour Beatty plc share for the current statements are made by the Balfour or future financial years will necessarily Beatty plc Directors in good faith based match or exceed the historical earnings on the information available to them at per Balfour Beatty plc share.
As a YouTube the date of this report and reflect the result, you are cautioned not to place youtube.
com BalfourBeattyPlc Balfour Beatty plc Directors beliefs and any undue reliance on such forwardexpectations.
By their nature these looking statements.
statements involve risk and uncertainty Google because they relate to events and depend plus.
com BalfourBeattyBBplc on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments todiffer materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under Principal Risks on pages 31 to 35 of this document.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Designed and produced by Printed in England by Pureprint The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, ofwhich 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp isbleached usingan elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its and environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks usedthroughout.
Boththe manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are ForestStewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 130 Wilton Road London SW1V 1LQ Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
