Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary ABC1 EPRA adjusted earnings per share Demographic classification in the UK used to describe Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation a professional class determined by income, earning levels, and sale of investment and development property, write down social grade and lifestyle.
of trading property, changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments and associated close-out costs and the related tax on BREEAM these items divided by the weighted average number of shares in Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment issue during the year.
Method assesses the sustainability of buildings against a range of criteria.
Estimated rental value ERV The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the Capco open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent referred to as the Company and all its subsidiaries and review of the property.
group undertakings, collectively referred to as the Group.
Gross income CLSA The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF relating to its land in the ECOA.
Initial yield EPRA Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as Diluted figures head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of empty rates on investment and development property expressed potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net Earls Court initial yield.
The London district made up of a series of residential neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of LBHF and RBKC.
IPD Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent Earls Court Masterplan benchmark of property returns.
The Earls Court Masterplan, created by Sir Terry Farrell and Partners is the consented scheme for the transformation of ECOA.
Kwok Family Interests KFI The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and The Royal Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
Borough of Kensington and Chelsea formerly granted outline planning permission for the Earls Court Masterplan on 14 LBHF November 2013.
The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
Earls Court Properties LIBOR The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising London Interbank Offer Rate.
EC1 & EC2, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture partnership with Like-for-like property the Kwok Family Interests, the Empress State Building Property which has been owned throughout both years without Capco ownership 100 per cent and a number of smaller properties significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be in the Earls Court area.
For the purposes of comparison EBITDA of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
EC1 & EC2 Loan-to-value LTV Capcos leasehold interests in the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 LTV is calculated on the basis of net debt divided by the value of the exhibition centres TfL together with Network Rail hold the Groups property portfolio.
The Group focuses most on an LTV freehold interests and Capcos freehold interest in the Northern measure that includes the notional share of joint venture interests Access Road which runs from the exhibition centre northwards but excludes the share of cash, debt and property which is held by to Fenelon Place.
Earls Court Partnership Limited, the investment the Group on behalf of non-controlling interest.
vehicle with TfL relates to these interests.
The Group holds NAV 63 per cent controlling interest and TfL holds 37 per cent.
ECOA Net Debt The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
EPRA NIA European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Net Internal Area.
Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, Net rental income NRI more transparent and comparable.
The Groups share of gross rental income less ground rents, payable service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV taken due account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of comply with International Financial Reporting Standards the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the regarding tenant lease incentives.
fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable Nominal equivalent yield under employee share schemes divided by the diluted number Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, of shares at the year end.
assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative financial instruments and to include deferred tax on revaluations.
com 145 Glossary continued Occupancy rate EPRA Tenant lease incentives The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or excluding units under development.
a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted Passing rent to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at straight-line basis over the lease term.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of rent-free periods or tenant lease TfL incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does London including Transport Trading Limited and London not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of Underground Limited.
unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car parks Total property return etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus administration are excluded.
rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
RBKC Total return The Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
The growth in EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share RIDDOR plus dividends per share paid during the year.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Total shareholder return Regulations.
The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid SARB during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
Underlying earnings Section 34A Housing Act 1985 Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net An amendment to the 1985 Act enabling an organised group valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, of tenants to require a local authority to transfer their homes to net refinancing charges, costs of termination of derivative financial a private registered provider of social housing, where a transfer instruments and non-recurring costs and income.
Underlying proves to be the favoured and viable option.
The Housing earnings is reported on a proportionally consolidated basis.
Right to Transfer from a Local Authority Landlord England Weighted average unexpired lease term Regulations 2013 which brought Section 34A into effect came The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for into force on 5 December 2013. each lease.
Section 106 Zone A Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space pursuant to which the relevant planning authority can impose by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most planning obligations on a developer to secure contributions to valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
services, infrastructure and amenities in order to support and Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of facilitate a proposed development.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A.
146 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Registrars Share dealing services All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, UK shareholders may share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: trade their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita Asset Services provide.
To use this service, shareholders For shareholders registered in the UK: should contact Capita: within the UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p Capita Asset Services per minute plus network extras: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU Monday to Friday : from Ireland: 1 890 946 375: or from outside Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network UK: 44 20 3367 2686 or you can log on to www.
extras: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday Telephone outside UK: 44 0 208 639 3399 Electronic communication Email: ssd@capita.
co. uk Capco has adopted electronic communications.
com that shareholders will receive documents from the Company electronically unless they elect to receive hard copies.
For shareholders registered in South Africa: All of the Groups annual results, interim results and interim Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited management statements will be published on the Companys 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 website www.
If you are a shareholder South Africa who receives hard copies of documents and you wish to elect Postal address: to receive electronic communications, please contact the PO Box 61051 appropriate registrar.
Marshalltown 2107, South Africa Telephone: 27 86 110 0933 Shareholders may revoke an election to receive electronic www.
com communications at any time.
Payment of dividends ShareGift If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders directly into a bank or building society, please complete a who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the mandate form which is available from the appropriate registrar.
market value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be found on its website www.
org Share price information or by calling them on 020 7930 3737.
The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC share price is available on the Companys website Strate Charity Shares SCS www.
SCS is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may wish to dispose of small holdings of shares that are too costly The shares are traded on the LSE with LSE code CAPC, to sell via a stock broker on a commission basis.
The shares are traded on the JSE under information can be found at http: www.
co. za, by emailing the abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
co. za or by calling 0800 202 363 or Web-based enquiry service for shareholders 27 11 870 8207 if you are phoning from outside South Africa.
Shareholders registered in the UK can register at Investment scams www.
com to access a range of online Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited calls, mail services including: or email that offer free advice, the opportunity to buy shares at a Online proxy voting discount or to provide free company reports.
Such approaches are often investment scams.
Information on how to protect yourself Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically from investment scams can be found at www.
uk scams Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price or by calling the FCAs consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768. and valuation Viewing transactions on your holding including any dividend payments you have received Updating your address details or registering a mandate to have your dividends paid directly to your bank account Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including downloadable forms To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate s. www.
com 147 148 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
This Report includes statements that are forward-looking Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Capital for further use and, on average 99% ofanywaste associated with & Counties Properties PLC to be materially different from any this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied Heaven 42 and Munken Polar: both papers contain 100% virgin by such forward-looking statements.
Any information contained fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
in this Report on the price at which shares or other securities in The pulp is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF and Capital & Counties PropertiesPLC have been bought or sold in totally chlorine free TCF processes.
the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com not be relied upon asaguideto future performance.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
