SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Forward-looking statements This report includes forward-looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties.
These forward-looking statements can be identified bythe use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, ineach case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, the industry in which we operate and potential acquisitions.
We derive many of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions.
While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult topredict the impact of known factors, and, of course, it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results.
Allforward-looking statements are based upon information available to us on the date of this report.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
We caution you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that our actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, the development of the industry in which we operate and the effect of acquisitions on us may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
In addition, even if our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which we operate are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Important factors that could cause those differences include, but are not limited to: a decline in the number of transactions, prices or commission levels in the UK residential property market, whether due to the impact ofmacro-economic factors or otherwise: increased or reduced competition in the industry in which we operate: changes in, or our failure or inability to comply with, government laws or regulations: the loss of any of our important commercial relationships: and any increase in our professional liabilities or any adverse development in the litigation or other disputes to which we are a party.
We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors may not contain all of the material factors that are important to you.
We urge you toread the operating and financial review for a more complete discussion of the factors that could affect our future performance and the industry in which we operate.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events described in this report may not occur.
We undertake no obligation, and do not expect, to publicly update or publicly revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referred to above and contained elsewhere in this report.
124 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Awards The Times and The Sunday Times Awards 2014 The British Mortgage Awards2014 The ESTAS 2014 RESI Awards 2014 Mortgage Finance Gazette Awards 2014 The Negotiator Awards 2014 Mortgage Strategy Awards2014 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC Countrywide plc certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using commissioned photography: an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
com ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 125 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Countrywide plc Countrywide House 88103 Caldecotte Lake Drive Caldecotte Milton Keynes MK7 8JT 44 0 1908 961000 investor@countrywide.
