STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued Financial Services The Financial Services division is the third largest mortgage distributor in the UK, with just over 5% of the total 205 billion UK mortgage market.
KPIs Highlights Total income m EBITDA growth 34% 18% increase in general insurance income 73.7 14% increase in life insurance exchanged annual premium equivalent APE 14% Strong growth from Capital Private Finance, our London brokerage, where 2014 73.7 profits grew over 63% and our Mortgage Intelligence network which also 13 14 2013 64.9 had an excellent year Productivity per Countrywide Estate Agency mortgage consultant has increased EBITDA m by 4% year on year 16.4 mortgage products through the intermediary Operating review channel.
Consumers are increasingly selecting 34% Market conditions in the first four months brokers because of the choice, convenience of 2014 were very encouraging, with signs 2014 16.4 and advice they get from the channel, of UK economic recovery gathering pace 13 14 2013 12.2 particularly when discussing the affordability and the Governments Help To Buy 2 HTB2 of their mortgage.
initiative for First Time Buyers fully deployed across most lenders.
This contributed to This year we have achieved exceptional strong consumer optimism, making it easier results in partnership with our chosen Total mortgages arranged number for borrowers to access mortgages and general insurance providers delivering enabling more First Time Buyers to enter both high quality insurance products for 70,529 the housing market.
Implementation of the our customers as well as 18% growth in our Mortgage Market Review regulations in late insurance income.
An element of the April slowed consumer sentiment, with some increased profitability has been attributed 16% concerns about affordability of borrowing, to the stable weather conditions experienced although the regulatory changes have in the UK in 2014, coupled with the finalisation 2014 70,529 generally been well deployed.
Across of profit share payments relating to prior 13 14 2013 60,640 the industry both lenders and mortgage periods.
This enabled the profit share for advisors alike have taken time to become household insurance sales to be 2.7 million accustomed to the changes in requirements, higher than expected: a situation that is not and mortgage productivity has slowed in the expected to be repeated in 2015.
Mortgage value bn second half of 2014 as a result of embedding Overall, despite the weakening market these regulatory changes.
Despite this, sentiment in the second half of 2014, our 10.3 2014 Group mortgage advances completed income is 14% higher than last year and we totalled 10.3 billion: a 24% increase on have been able to utilise our infrastructure the prior year.
to deliver a strong profit performance in 24% In October we launched a new partnership 2014 with 34% EBITDA growth.
2014 10.3 with HSBC: the first time they have entered Market mix 13 14 2013 8.3 the Intermediary Broker market, where they The Estate Agency distribution was delivered a range of exclusive mortgage unsurprisingly oriented around home movers products to the Countrywide Estate Agency and First Time Buyers and benefited more customers.
This new relationship reflects from HTB2 and 95% lending than some other the confidence of our lender partners in the brokers.
A large element of our Estate Agency Groups ability to reach customers and the growing importance of distribution of 26 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION growth has been seen in second-hand house Focus on: transactions, with Mortgage Intelligence Phillipa Legg benefiting more from remortgages and buy-to-let opportunities.
As outlined earlier, this was driven as a result of positive housing market sentiment in the first half of the year.
Recruitment The significant investment made in retaining and growing the Estate Agency mortgage consultant sales force during the second half of 2013 and the first half of 2014 assisted our revenue growth as the market gained momentum in early 2014.
Total mortgage consultant headcount closed the year at 681: an increase in headcount of 70 in comparison to the end of December 2013 headcount of 611.
Due to the extensive In April 2013, Phillipa became a business Phillipa Legg lives in Henton, training and mortgage lead times, new development executive, a broader role Oxfordshire with her parents.
recruits take up to six months to become that catered to Phillipas strength of being She spends most of her spare revenue generating, so it is satisfying to see a people person.
Phillipa worked closely time walking her dog, caring that that this investment is starting to pay with Claire Limon, Group insurance director, for her horse and competing dividends.
We enter 2015 with a sufficient to create a group insurance plan to in dressage, show jumping workforce to be able to service our customer centralise our insurance costs, supplier and cross country.
requirements in the current climate and management and processes.
The purpose Phillipa developed an interest in marketing have no plans to increase further.
of the plan is to improve our customers when she studied business studies at experience, so they know exactly what A level.
She considered going to university, Mortgage market they are getting and where it is from, no but in September 2011, Phillipa began an matter which part of the Countrywide Group The recent Bank of England decision to apprenticeship where she could develop they interact with.
In November 2014, hold base interest rates steady provides her interest and work towards a Chartered Phillipa became our Group insurance borrowers with shelter from interest rate Institute of Marketing CIM Professional manager, working on the Group insurance instability in the near to medium term and Certificate in Marketing.
Phillipas role is about will not lead to any dramatic increase in bringing people together to ensure were In January 2012, the company that Phillipa remortgaging activity.
This coupled with the all going in the same direction.
She has had started her apprenticeship with went backdrop of the upcoming general election, built good relationships and isnt afraid to into administration, and Phillipa joined the uncertain consumer sentiment, and ask questions and look for facts when she Countrywide Financial Services as a CRM elevated Quarter 1 2014 activity pre MMR doesnt have the answer.
We continued to and HTB2 will dampen comparable journey has been rapid, and in just three support Phillipas CIM qualification and mortgage activity in the first half of 2015. years she has proven herself a valuable further development, and within a year, The regulatory environment continues to member of the team with a bright future Phillipa attained the qualification and was evolve and we will continue to invest strongly ahead of her.
promoted to marketing executive, giving in our infrastructure, resourcing and systems her more managerial responsibilities in order to maintain our high quality service, which she enjoyed.
and ensuring we offer expert advice and positive outcomes for all our customers.
Despite the inherent uncertainty in the market, the Financial Services division is seeing positive momentum in 2015, with an average loan value 7% higher than last year.
