FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information c New standards, amendments During the year, the Group has consolidated the andinterpretations results and position of Albion PRS Investments Countrywide plc the Company and its Standards, amendments and interpretations Unit Trust see note 16.
At the year end, the subsidiaries together, the Group is the effective and adopted by the Group Group controls the Unit Trust and has the leading integrated, full service residential The following standards have been adopted ability to affect returns though its power over estate agency and property services group by the Group for the first time for the financial the Unit Trust, consolidation as a subsidiary inthe UK, measured by both revenue and year beginning on or after 1 January 2014 hasbeen undertaken.
During 2015 further transaction volumes in 2014.
It offers estate but none have had a material impact on external investment is expected in addition agency and lettings services, together with theGroup: to finalisation of a full and independent fund arange of complementary services, and structure, which is expected to remove the hasa significant presence in key areas and IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements: ability of the Group to control the investment.
property types which are promoted through this amendment has not had an impact on locally respected brands.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for acquisitions and the cost of The Company is a public limited company, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements: this acquisition is measured as the fair value of which is listed on the London Stock Exchange amendment has not had an impact on assets given, equity instruments issued and and incorporated and domiciled in the UK theGroup financial statements as the Group liabilities incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired registered number: 08340090.
The address has historically applied the equity method and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed of its registered office is 17 Duke Street, to account for its joint venture interests.
in a business combination are measured at their Chelmsford, Essex CM1 1HP.
Other amendments effective for the financial fair value at the acquisition date.
Acquisition year ended 31 December 2014 IAS 32, 36 costs are written off to the income statement.
Accounting policies and 39 have not had a material impact on Theaccounting policies of subsidiaries acquired The principal accounting policies applied in the Group.
are changed, where necessary, toensure the preparation of these consolidated financial consistency with policies operated by the Group.
statements are set out below.
These policies New standards and interpretations have been consistently applied to the notyet adopted The Group recognises any non-controlling yearspresented.
A number of new standards and interpretations interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-byare effective for annual periods beginning acquisition basis, either at fair value or at a Basis of preparation onor after 1 January 2015 and have not yet thenon-controlling interests proportionate The consolidated financial statements have been applied in preparing these consolidated share of the recognised amounts of acquirees been prepared under the historical cost financial statements.
None of these new identifiable net assets.
If the business convention, as modified by the revaluation standards or interpretations is expected to combination is achieved in stages, the ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and have a material impact on the consolidated acquisition date fair value of the acquirers financial liabilities at fair value through profit financial statements of the Group, with the previously held equity interest in the acquiree or loss, and in accordance with International exception of the following: is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and date through profit or loss.
IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: and asadopted by the European Union and Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts theCompanies Act 2006 applicable to aggregate of the consideration transferred withcustomers.
and fair value of non-controlling interest over The directors do not expect that the adoption the fair value of the net identifiable assets The preparation of the consolidated financial of the standards listed above will have a acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this information in conformity with IFRS requires material impact on the financial statements consideration is lower than the fair value the use of certain critical accounting estimates of the Group infuture periods, except that ofnet assets of the subsidiary acquired, and requires management to exercise IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement thedifference is recognised in profit or loss.
judgement in the process of applying the and disclosures of financial instruments and Groups accounting policies.
The areas Transactions with non-controlling interests IFRS 15 may have an impact on revenue involving a higher degree of judgement or that do not result in loss of control are recognition and related disclosures.
complexity, or areas where assumptions and accounted for as equity transactions that estimates are significant to the consolidated d Basis of consolidation is, as transactions with the owners in their financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
The difference between Subsidiaries are all entities over which the fair value of any consideration paid and the b Going concern Group has control.
The Group controls an relevant share acquired of the carrying value These financial statements have been prepared entity when the Group is exposed to, or has of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded on a going concern basis, which assumes that rights to, variable returns from its involvement inequity.
Gains or losses on disposals to the Group will be able to meet its liabilities with the entity and has the ability to affect non-controlling interests are also recorded when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
those returns through its power over the entity.
The Board of directors has reviewed cash flow Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date forecasts, which have been stress tested with on which control is transferred tothe Group.
various assumptions regarding future housing They are deconsolidated from the date that market volumes, and concluded that it is control ceases.
appropriate to prepare the financial statements on agoing concern basis.
82 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Accounting policies continued income and expenses for each income Each lease payment is allocated between the statement presented are translated at liability and finance charges.
The corresponding d Basis of consolidation continued average exchange rates unless this average rental obligations, net of finance charges, Joint ventures is not a reasonable approximation of the areincluded within borrowings.
The interest Under the equity method of accounting, cumulative effect of the rates prevailing element of the finance cost is charged to the interests in joint ventures are initially recognised onthe transaction dates, in which case income statement over the lease period so at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise income and expenses are translated at the as to produce a constant periodic rate of the Groups share of the post-acquisition rate on the dates of the transactions : and interest on the remaining balance of the liability profits or losses and movements in other for each period.
The property, plant and comprehensive income.
When the Groups all resulting exchange differences are equipment under finance leases is depreciated share of losses in a joint venture equals recognised in other comprehensive income.
over the shorter of the useful life of the asset orexceeds its interests in the joint venture, Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising and lease term.
the Group does not recognise further losses on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated except to the extent that it has incurred Depreciation as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity obligations or made payments on behalf of Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on and translated at the closing rate.
Accounting policies of the astraight line basis over the estimated useful differences arising are recognised in equity.
joint venture are aligned where applicable.
lives of each part of an item of property, plant The following exchange rates were applied and equipment.
The property, plant and Transactions eliminated on consolidation for 1 Sterling at 31 December: equipment acquired under finance leases Intra-group balances, and any gains and isdepreciated over the shorter of the useful losses or income and expenses arising from 2014 2013 life of the asset and the lease term.
Freehold intra-group transactions, are eliminated in Hong Kong Dollars 12.10 12.66 land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful preparing the consolidated financial information.
Euros 1.28 1.20 lives are as follows: Gains arising from transactions with jointly Barbadian Dollars 3.12 3.31 controlled entities are eliminated to the Freehold buildings 50 years extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
f Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements over the Losses are eliminated in the same way as Investment property period of the lease gains, but only to the extent that there is no Investment property, which is property held evidence of impairment.
Furniture and equipment three to five years to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is e Foreign currency translation initially measured at cost, including related Motor vehicles three to five years The functional currency of the Company is transaction costs, and is then stated at fair The residual values and useful lives are Pounds Sterling because that is the currency value.
Changes in the fair value of investment reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, of the primary economic environment in property are included in profits for the year ateach balance sheet date.
The Groups to which they relate.
The valuation methods presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
applied are detailed in note 16. g Intangible assets Goodwill Transactions and balances Owned assets Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions Foreign currency transactions are translated Items of property, plant and equipment are of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Goodwill into the functional currency using the exchange stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated represents the excess of the cost of an rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Cost acquisition over the fair value of the Groups Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting includes the original purchase price of the share of the net identifiable assets of the from the settlement of such transactions and asset and the costs attributable to bringing acquiree at the date of acquisition and the from the translation at year-end exchange the asset to its working condition for its intended value of the non-controlling interest in the rates of monetary assets and liabilities use.
When parts of an item of property, plant acquiree.
Acquisition costs are written off denominated in foreign currencies are and equipment have different useful lives, those tothe income statement.
recognised in the income statement.
components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated Foreign exchange gains and losses that impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to relate to borrowings and cash and cash Subsequent costs are included in the assets cash generating units and is not amortised equivalents are presented in the income carrying amount or recognised as a separate but is tested annually for impairment or more statement within finance income or costs.
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable frequently if events or changes in circumstances All other foreign exchange gains and losses that future economic benefits associated with indicate potential impairment.
are presented in the income statement within the item will flow to the Group and the cost other income or other operating costs.
of the item can be measured reliably.
In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount Group companies Gains and losses on disposals are of the investment in the joint venture.
The results and financial position of all the determined by comparing the proceeds Group entities none of which has the currency withthe carrying amount and are recognised Excess of acquirers interest in the net of a hyperinflationary economy that have in the income statement.
fairvalue of acquirees identifiable assets, afunctional currency different from the liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost Leased assets presentation currency are translated into arising on an acquisition is recognised in Leases under which the Group assumes thepresentation currency as follows: theincome statement.
substantially all the risks and rewards of assets and liabilities for each balance sheet ownership of an asset are classified as finance presented are translated at the closing rate leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired at the date of that balance sheet: under finance leases isrecorded at fair value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments atinception of the lease, lessaccumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued in profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised Changes in the fair value of monetary in respect of cash generating units are allocated andnon-monetary securities classified g Intangible assets continued first to reduce the carrying amount of any asavailable-for-sale are recognised in Other intangible assets goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit othercomprehensive income.
Intangible assets other than goodwill that are and then to reduce the carrying amount of acquired by the Group, principally acquired When securities classified as available for sale the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
brands, customer contracts and relationships, are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value computer software, pipeline and other An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is adjustments recognised in equity are included intangibles, are stated at cost less accumulated not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an in the income statement as gains and losses amortisation, where charged, and impairment impairment loss is reversed if there has been from investment securities.
Brands are considered to have a change in the estimates used to determine available-for-sale equity instruments are indefinite lives.
recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Groups right to Acquired computer software is capitalised An impairment loss is reversed only to the receive payments is established.
onthe basis of the costs incurred to acquire extent that the assets carrying amount does and bring to use the specific software.
not exceed the carrying amount that would Impairment of financial assets Internal costs that are incurred during the have been determined, net of depreciation Impairment provisions are recognised when development of significant and separately or amortisation, if no impairment loss had there is objective evidence such as significant identifiable computer software for use in the been recognised.
financial difficulties on the part of the business are capitalised where the software counterparty or default or significant delay i Financial assets is integral to the generation of future economic inpayment that the Group will be unable Classification benefits.
Internal costs that are capitalised tocollect all of the amounts due under the The Group classifies its financial assets as are limited to incremental costs specific to terms receivable, the amount of such a loans and receivables and available-for-sale the project.
Other development expenditures provision being the difference between the financial assets.
The classification depends that do not meet the criteria for capitalisation net carrying amount and the present value on the purpose for which the financial assets are recognised as an expense as incurred.
ofthe future expected cash flows associated were acquired.
Management determines Development costs previously recognised with the impaired receivable.
theclassification of its financial assets at asan expense are not recognised as an initial recognition.
For trade receivables, which are reported net asset in a subsequent period.
of provisions, such provisions are recorded in Loans and receivables Amortisation a separate provision account with the loss being Loans and receivables are non-derivative Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on recognised within other operating costs in financial assets with fixed or determinable astraight line basis over the estimated useful the income statement.
On confirmation that payments that arise principally through the lives of intangible assets unless such lives the trade receivable will not be collectable, provision of services to customers.
The estimated useful lives are the gross carrying value of the asset is areinitially recognised at fair value and are as follows: written off against the associated provision.
subsequently stated at amortised cost using Computer software one to five years the effective interest method.
They are included In the case of assets classified as available in current assets, except for maturities greater for sale, impairment losses are recognised in Brand names indefinite life than twelve months after the end of the the consolidated income statement and arise Assets are tested annually for impairment reporting period.
Loans and receivables from objective evidence that these assets ormore frequently if events or changes in comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents have declined in value such as a significant circumstances indicate potential impairment.
and trade and other receivables.
or prolonged decline in the fairvalue of the security below its cost.
Customer contacts and relationships Available-for-sale fiveto ten years Available-for-sale financial assets are j Trade and other receivables non-derivative financial assets that are either Trade and other receivables are recognised Pipeline agreed but un-exchanged house designated in this category or not classified initially at fair value and subsequently measured sales at date of acquisition three months in any of the other categories.
They are at amortised cost less an impairment provision.
Other intangibles 25 years included in non-current assets unless the A provision for impairment of trade receivables investment matures or management intends is established when there is objective evidence h Impairment of non-financial assets to dispose of it within twelve months of the that the Group will not be able to collect all The carrying amounts of the Groups end of the reporting period.
amounts due according to the original terms non-current assets are reviewed for impairment of the receivables.
annually or whenever events and changes Recognition and measurement incircumstances indicate that the carrying Regular purchases and sales of financial assets k Cash and cash equivalents amount may not be recoverable.
If any such are recognised on the trade date: the date Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash indication exists, the assets recoverable on which the Group commits to purchase or balances and call deposits with an original amount is estimated.
Financial assets are derecognised maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts when the rights to receive cash flows from that are repayable on demand and form an In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that the investments have expired or have been integral part of the Groups cash management have an indefinite useful life and intangible transferred and the Group has transferred are included as a component of cash and assets that are not yet available for use, the substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
cash equivalents for the purpose of the recoverable amount is estimated at each statement of cash flows and are presented balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount Loans and receivables and available-for-sale incurrent liabilities.
is the higher of fair value less costs to sell financial assets are initially recognised at and value in use.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans Impairment losses represent the amount and receivables are subsequently carried bywhich the carrying value exceeds the atamortised cost using the effective recoverable amount: they are recognised interestmethod.
84 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Accounting policies continued Actuarial gains and losses arising from s Revenue experience adjustments and changes in Services rendered l Trade and other payables actuarial assumptions are charged or credited Revenue comprises mainly commission Trade and other payables are recognised initially to equity in other comprehensive income andfees receivable.
Commission earned at fair value and subsequently measured at inthe period in which they arise.
onsales of residential and commercial amortised cost.
property is accounted for on the exchange Past service costs are recognised m Borrowings ofcontracts for such sales.
Survey, valuation immediately in income.
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, and conveyancing fees are accounted for net of transaction costs incurred.
Such interest p Share-based payments oncompletion of the service being provided.
bearing liabilities are subsequently measured The Group operates a number of equity-settled Commission earned on sales of insurance at amortised cost using the effective interest share-based schemes under which the Group policies, mortgages and related products is rate method, which ensures that any interest receives services from employees as accounted for when the policies go on risk expense over the period to repayment is at consideration for equity instruments options or the mortgage is exchanged.
Commissions aconstant rate on the balance of the liability of the Group.
The fair value of the employee and fees earned under lettings contracts are carried in the balance sheet.
Interest expense services received in exchange for the grant recognised at the point of delivery of the in this context includes initial transaction of the options is recognised as an expense.
Revenue generated by Surveying costs and premiums payable on redemption, Where the share awards have non-market Services from panel management contracts as well as any interest payable while the related performance criteria the Group has is reported net of any fees paid on behalf liability is outstanding.
used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes ofpanel valuers, reflecting the fact that option valuation models to establish the theGroup does not act as the principal n Options to acquire relevant fair values.
Where the share awards inthese contracts.
 have a TSR market related performance Options to acquire non-controlling interests Revenue in respect of consultancy services criteria the Group has used the Monte Carlo in the future are initially accounted for at fair performed is recognised as activity progresses simulation valuation model to establish the value with a corresponding charge directly to reflect the Groups partial performance of relevant fair values see note 27.
Such options are subsequently its contractual obligations.
Activity performance values are amortised through the income measured at fair value, using the effective in excess of invoices raised is included within statement over the vesting period ofthe interest rate method, in order to accrete amounts due from customers for contract work.
theliability up to the amount payable under Where amounts have been invoiced in excess the option at the date at which it becomes At the end of each reporting period, the Group of work performed, the excess is included exercisable.
The charge arising is recorded revises its estimates of the number of options within amounts due to customers for contract as a finance cost and the liability is shown that are expected to vest based on the work.
If the right to consideration is conditional inother financial liabilities.
The risks and rewards non-market conditions and recognises the or contingent on a specified future event or of ownership of the non-controlling interests impact of the revision to original estimates, outcome, the outcome of which is outside remain with the sellers and therefore the ifany, in the income statement, with a the control of the Group, revenue is not non-controlling interest is recognised by the corresponding adjustment to equity.
recognised until that critical event occurs.
The put options are contractual puts The social security contributions payable in Under certain service contracts, the Group at the discretion of the sellers.
connection with the grant of the share options manages client expenditure and is obliged to o Pensions is considered an integral part of the grant purchase goods and services from suppliers The Group operates various post-employment itself, and the charge will be treated as a and recharge them on to the customer at schemes, including both defined benefit and cash-settled transaction.
The amounts charged by suppliers and defined contribution pension plans.
recharged to clients are excluded from revenue q Provisions and administrative expenses.
Receivables, Defined contribution plans A provision is recognised in the balance sheet payables and cash relating to these transactions The Group pays fixed contributions to when the Group has a present legal or are included in the balance sheet.
separately administered pension insurance constructive obligation as a result of a past plans.
The Group has no further obligations event, and it is probable that an outflow of Deferred income once the contributions have been paid.
The economic benefits will be required to settle Where the Group receives an amount upfront contributions are recognised as an employee the obligation.
Provisions are determined by in respect of future income streams, the value benefit expense when they are due.
discounting the expected future cash flows of the receipt is amortised over the period at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market ofthe contract as the services are delivered Defined benefit plans assessments of the time value of money and the unexpired element is disclosed in The liability recognised in the balance sheet and, when appropriate, the risks specific liabilities as deferred income.
in respect of defined benefit pension plans tothe liability.
The increase in the provision isthe present value of the defined benefit t Other income due to passage of time is recognised in obligation at the end of the reporting period Other income is recognised when its receipt finance costs.
less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined is assured and the Group has no further benefit obligation is calculated annually by r Share capital obligations to any other party in respect independent actuaries using the projected Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Rental income from sub-let unit credit method.
The present value of Incremental costs directly attributable to properties is recognised in profit or loss on thedefined benefit obligation is determined theissue of new shares are shown in share astraight line basis over the term of the lease.
by discounting the estimated future cash premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Lease incentives granted are recognised outflows using interest rates of high quality Where the employee benefit trust purchases asan integral part of the total rental income.
corporate bonds that are denominated in the the Companys equity share capital treasury Dividend income is recognised when the currency in which the benefits will be paid and shares, the consideration paid, including right to receive payment is established.
that have terms to maturity approximating to anydirectly attributable incremental costs, the terms of the related pension obligation.
isdeducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the balance 3.
Critical accounting judgements sheet liability method, providing for temporary andestimates u Operating lease payments differences between the carrying amounts Payments under operating leases are The preparation of the Groups consolidated ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting recognised in profit or loss on a straight financial statements under IFRS requires the purposes and the amounts used for linebasis over the term of the lease.
directors to make estimates and assumptions taxationpurposes.
Leaseincentives received are recognised that affect the reported amounts of assets inprofitor loss as an integral part of the and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent The following temporary differences are not totallease expense.
Estimates and judgements provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: are continually evaluated and are based the initial recognition of other assets or v Net finance costs onhistorical experience and other factors liabilities that affect neither accounting nor Finance costs including expectations of future events that taxable profit: and differences relating to Finance costs comprise interest payable are believed to be reasonable under the investments in subsidiaries to the extent that onborrowings including finance lease circumstances.
Actual results may differ they are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable commitments, net interest costs on the fromthese estimates, given the uncertainty future.
The amount of deferred tax provided pension scheme liabilities, the unwinding surrounding the assumptions and conditions is based on the expected manner of realisation ofthe discount rates in respect of financial upon which the estimates are based.
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets liabilities and provisions, premiums payable and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or on settlement or redemption and direct issue The directors consider that the following substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Interest costs accrue using the effective estimates and judgements are likely to have interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment the most significant effect on the amounts A deferred tax asset is recognised only to of loan facilities are recognised as transaction recognised in the Groups consolidated theextent that it is probable that future taxable costs of the loan and amortised over the financial statements.
profits will be available against which the asset period to which the facility relates.
Deferred tax assets are reduced Professional indemnity provisions to the extent that it is no longer probable that Finance income When evaluating the impact of potential the related tax benefit will be realised.
Finance income comprises interest receivable liabilities arising from claims against the on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised Group, the Group takes legal and professional Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are in profit or loss as it accrues using the effective advice to assist it in arriving at its estimation offset when there is a legally enforceable right interest method.
of the liability taking into account the to offset current tax assets against current probability of the success of any claims and tax liabilities and when the deferred income w Exceptional items also the likely development of claims based taxes assets and liabilities relate to income As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation and on recent trends.
taxes levied by the same taxation authority disclosure certain items are presented on either the taxable entity or different taxable separately in the income statement as The Group has made provision for claims entities where there is an intention to settle exceptional where, in the judgement of received under its professional indemnity the balances on a net basis.
thedirectors, they need to be disclosed insurance arrangements.
The provision can separately by virtue of their nature, size be broken down to three categories: Deferred income tax is provided on temporary orincidence in order to obtain a clear differences arising on investments in Reserves for known claims: These losses andconsistent presentation of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures, except for are recommended by our professional underlying business performance.
Examples deferred income tax liability where the timing claims handlers and approved panel law of material and non-recurring items which of the reversal of the temporary difference firms who take into account all the may give rise to disclosure as exceptional iscontrolled by the Group and it is probable information available on the claims and items include costs of restructuring existing that the temporary difference will not reverse recorded on our insurance bordereaux.
businesses, integration of newly acquired in the foreseeable future.
Where there is insufficient information on businesses, asset impairments and costs which to assess the potential losses, initial Additional income taxes that arise from the associated with acquiring new businesses.
reserves may be set at an initial level to distribution of dividends are recognised at The columnar presentation of our income cover investigative costs or nil.
Further the same time as the liability to pay the statement separates exceptional items, provisions are also made for specific large related dividend.
amortisation of intangibles arising on claims which may be subject to litigation business acquisitions and share-based y Segment reporting and the directors assess the level of these payments to illustrate consistently the Operating segments are reported in a manner provisions based on legal advice and the Groups underlying business performance.
consistent with the internal reporting to the likelihood of success.
Governance and Performance Committee x Income tax Provision for the losses on known claims which has been identified as the chief Income tax comprises current and deferred to increase: It can take one to two years operating decision maker.
Income tax is recognised in profit or for claims to develop after they are initially lossexcept to the extent that it relates to z Dividend distribution notified to the Group.
For this reason, the items recognised in other comprehensive Dividend distribution to the Companys Group creates a provision based on historical income or directly in equity, in which case shareholders is recognised as a liability loss rates for closed claims and average itis recognised in other comprehensive intheGroups financial statements in the losses for closed claims.
income or directly in equity respectively.
period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim Current tax is the expected tax payable on dividends are recognised when paid.
the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
86 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Critical accounting judgements A great deal of progress had been made Impairment of goodwill and andestimates continued during the year to close the claims in the indefinitelived intangible assets system.
Many of these claims are subject to Determining whether goodwill and indefinite Professional indemnity provisions protracted dealings with legal firms and can lived intangible assets are impaired requires continued not easily be managed.
Nevertheless, we an estimation of the value in use of the cash Provision for incurred but not reported experienced an increase in the number of generating units to which the assets have IBNR : The Group also provides for future claims resulting in a loss owing to a higher been allocated.
Calculating the cash flows liabilities arising from claims IBNR for proportion of older and more difficult claims requires the use of judgements and estimates mortgage valuation reports and home being settled in the year.
As we are now that have been included in our strategic plans buyer reports performed by the Surveying resolving the older more complex claims, and long range forecasts.
In addition, judgement Services division.
This provision is estimated and the new claims being received for older is required to estimate the appropriate interest on a future projection of historical data for surveys present more challenges researching rate to be used to discount the future cash all claims received based on the number of the older files and historically available data, flows.
The data necessary forthe execution surveys undertaken to date.
This projection we anticipate that the liability rate will increase of the impairment tests are based on takes into account the historic claim rate, and have increased the provision accordingly.
management estimates of future cash flows, claim liability rate and the average loss per Since the liability rate is sensitive to changes which require estimating revenue growth claim.
In view of the significant events in we have used the average liability rate for rates and profit margins.
Further details of the financial markets and the UK property claims closed over two years.
In 2014 our impairment reviews are set out in note 14. market in recent years, the directors have experience was significantly above historic identified a separate sub-population of Accounting treatment of transactions averages, partly due to a lower number of claims received which is tracked separately inrelation to Zoopla Property Group plc files being closed.
However, post year end from the normal level of claims.
This During 2014 there were a number of the number of claims settled with no loss sub-population has been defined as claims transactions undertaken in respect of the has resulted in this rate reducing closer received since 2008 for surveys carried Groups holding in Zoopla Property Group to the two year average.
If we applied this out between 2004 and 2007.
Limited shares classified as available-for-sale higher rate derived from a shorter period at the 2013 year end.
Given the interpretation The estimate of these provisions by their i. e. the average claim rate of 2014 and 2015 of legal agreements and potential complexity nature is judgemental.
The three key inputs, to date to all outstanding claims, the provision of transactions, each of the transaction stages claim rate, claim liability rate and average loss, may need to be increased by 1.2 million.
outlined in the Report of the Audit and Risk are very sensitive to any change in trends.
Management does not consider it necessary Committee on page 50 was subject to review.
to make this additional provision because Claim rate the number of claims calculating the rate over short period of Fair value of available-for-sale assets received compared to the number time increases the distortion arising from Available-for-sale AFS financial assets are of surveys performed.
short term timing differences arising from non-derivatives valued on the following basis: During 2014 the number of claims received administration and legal processes.
listed shares held by the Group that are declined by 60% but it was still higher than Average loss the average of total incurred traded on an active market are classified expected as we saw an emerging trend of losses for closed claims.
as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
claims greater than six years being submitted.
Of the claims received, 69% were for surveys For claims relating to the 20042007 period, Gains and losses arising from changes in fair over six years old, the remainder primarily the average loss per claim increased by value are recognised in other comprehensive relating to 2008 surveys which approached 14% in 2014.
This increase is attributed to income and accumulated in the AFS revaluation the end of their six year contractual statute the increasing complexity of the remaining reserve with the exception of impairment of limitation.
Historically, there has been little claims being closed.
We take every effort to losses which are recognised directly in profit experience of old claims on which to base mitigate losses and we also operate a very and loss.
Where the investment is disposed any future model: however we have increased successful accelerated dispute resolution of or is determined to be impaired, the the rate in our model going forwards.
process with our key lenders, agreeing cumulative gain or loss previously recognised There is a possible risk that a significant rise settlements directly and significantly reducing in the AFS revaluation reserve is reclassified in mortgage interest rates could lead to an the legal fees.
The directors have reviewed to profit or loss.
increase in repossessions and potential losses this input and consider that the level of Dividends on AFS equity instruments are being incurred by the lenders.
But since change is within normal fluctuations and recognised in profit or loss when the Groups there are no macro-economic indicators therefore do not propose to uplift the average right to receive the dividends is established.
that this is a reasonable likelihood in the loss but note that a 15% increase to the short term, the directors do not consider it average loss for existing open claims would Share-based payments appropriate to provide for additional claims add 0.8 million to the provision.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group due to macro-economic changes.
But it revises its estimates of the number of options Accounting for acquisitions should be noted that a 5% increase in the that are expected to vest based on the The Group accounts for all business claim rate could lead to a 3 million increase non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises combinations under the purchase method.
in the provision for future claims.
the impact of the revision to original estimates, Under the purchase method, the identifiable if any, in the income statement, with a Liability rate the number of claims closed assets acquired and liabilities and contingent corresponding adjustment to equity.
with a loss compared to the number of liabilities assumed are measured at their fair closed claims.
value at the acquisition date.
Judgements and estimates are made in respect of the measurement of the fair values of assets andliabilities acquired and consideration transferred.
Where necessary, the Group engages external valuation experts to advise on fair value estimates, or otherwise performs estimates internally.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segmental reporting Management has determined the operating segments based on the operating reports reviewed by the Governance and Performance Committee that are used to assess both performance and strategic decisions.
Management has identified that the Governance and Performance Committee is the chief operating decision maker in accordance withthe requirements of IFRS 8 Operatingsegments.
The Governance and Performance Committee considers the business to be split into seven main types of business generating revenue: EstateAgency, London & Premier, Lettings, Financial Services, Surveying Services, Conveyancing Services and Lambert Smith Hampton divisions, and all other segments comprise central head office functions.
The Estate Agency division generates commission earned on sales of residential and commercial property.
The London & Premier division revenue is earned from both estate agency commissions and lettings and management fees.
The Lettings division earns fees from the letting and management of residential properties and fees for the management of leasehold properties.
The Financial Services division receives commission from the sale of insurance policies, mortgages and related products under contracts with financial service providers.
Surveying services comprises surveying and valuation fees which are received primarily under contracts with financial institutions with some survey fees being earned from home buyers.
Conveyancing services generates revenue from conveyancing work undertaken from customers buying or selling houses through our network.
Lambert Smith Hamptons revenue is earned from commercial property consultancy and advisory services, property management and valuation services.
Other income generated by head office functions, relates primarily to sub-let rental income orother sundry fees.
The Governance and Performance Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted EBITDA.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of exceptional items, share-based payment charges and related National Insurance contributions, management fees and income from joint ventures.
Finance income and costs are not allocated to the segments, as this type of activity is driven bythe central treasury activities as part of managing the cash position of the Group.
Revenue and other income from external customers arising from activities in the UK was 701,710,000 2013: 584,047,000 and that arising from activities overseas was 491,000 2013: 721,000.
The assets and liabilities for each operating segment represent those assets and liabilities arising directly from the operating activities of each division.
Pension assets and liabilities and liabilities arising from the term loan andrevolving credit facility are not allocated to operating segments, but allocated in full toall other segments within the segmental analysis.
All inter-segment pricing is done onan arms length basis.
Non-current assetsattributable to the UK of 766,956,000 2013: 707,903,000 are included in the total assets in the tables on the following pages.
Non-current assets of 18,000 2013: 24,000 are attributable to the overseas operations.
The equity investment in joint venture is disclosed within all other segments and is 3,219,000 2013: 2,913,000.
The available-for-sale financial assets are disclosed within: all other segments 30,957,000 2013: 42,877,000 and Estate Agency 2,333,000 2013: Nil.
There are no differences from the last annualfinancial statements in the basis of measurement of segment profit or loss.
Other income 2014 2013 000 000 Rent receivable 1,569 1,064 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 1,395 1,536 Other operating income 14,143 11,304 17,107 13,904 Other operating income comprises a number of items, but principally relates to income arising from client accounting taxation services andcommission earned on energy performance certification.
Employees and directors a Employee costs for the Group during the year 2014 2013 000 000 Wages and salaries 336,799 287,996 Share options granted to directors and employees note 27 12,860 7,360 Defined contribution pension cost note 25 5,637 4,804 Defined benefit scheme costs 105 124 Social security costs 37,393 32,322 392,794 332,606 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Employees and directors continued a Employee costs for the Group during the year continued Average monthly number of people including executive directors employed: 2014 2013 By business segment Number Number Estate Agency 3,760 3,612 London & Premier 1,208 1,119 Lettings 2,217 1,897 Financial Services 998 904 Surveying Services 650 547 Conveyancing Services 389 355 Lambert Smith Hampton 904 210 Head office 203 182 10,329 8,826 b Key management compensation The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Governance and Performance Committee including the executive directors.
Other operating costs 2014 2013 000 000 Rent 27,320 26,134 Advertising and marketing expenditure 19,698 16,937 Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 17,536 15,792 Other motoring costs 13,293 11,171 Repairs and maintenance 7,081 5,284 Trade receivables impairment 1,181 1,099 Profit on disposal of business 2,133 Profit on revaluation of investment property 218 Profit loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 4 106 Other 119,017 98,438 Total operating costs 202,771 174,961 Services provided by the Companys auditor and network firms During the year the Company including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor at costs asdetailed below: 2014 2013 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 135 154 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 421 347 audit related assurance services 44 44 non-audit services of which 1 million relates to IPO related services in 2013 20 1,054 tax advisory services 60 48 services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into on behalf ofthe Company 97 152 777 1,799 90 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 8.
Finance costs 2014 2013 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on borrowings 141 642 Interest payable on term loan loan notes including 2.5 million of exceptional items in 2013 see note 10 2,899 13,107 Interest payable on revolving credit facility 525 416 Interest arising from finance leases 581 328 Other interest paid 42 625 Cash payable interest 4,188 15,118 Amortisation of loan facility fee including 2.0 million of exceptional items in 2013 see note 10 1,160 3,243 Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme 158 255 Other finance costs 78 190 Non-cash payable interest 1,396 3,688 Finance costs 5,584 18,806 9.
Exceptional items The following items have been included in arriving at profit loss before taxation: 2014 2013 000 000 Exceptional income Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 14,564 Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of Zoopla shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 2,534 2,534 17,098 2,534 Exceptional costs IPO related Exceptional costs charged to operating profit Costs incurred in relation to the IPO 3,979 Share-based payment cost in relation to accelerated management incentive plan 694 Exceptional costs charged to finance costs Early redemption penalty incurred on redemption of 250 million Senior Secured Notes 2,500 Accelerated amortisation of capitalised finance costs relating to cancelled facilities 2,042 9,215 Non-IPO related Exceptional costs charged to operating profit Insurance claims and litigations 15,241 Acquisition expenses 890 Total exceptional costs 15,241 10,105 Net exceptional income costs 1,857 7,571 2014 Exceptional income During 2014 there has been continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla warrants detailed below which will continue to unwind over the period to 31 December 2015.
In addition, the Group disposed of a significant proportion of its shareholding in Zoopla Property Group plc as part of the IPO process in June 2014 and the associated profit is disclosed above.
Exceptional costs As part of the year-end process in 2014, the Group performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on professional indemnity PI costs and believed that it was prudent to increase the provision for PI claims accordingly.
The key elements behind this charge are an unexpected level of claims brought about under common law outside of the primary statutory limitation period, rather than under contract law, together with aslight deterioration of claims previously notified and an increase in the average loss per claim.
Further information can be found in note3 Critical accounting judgements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Exceptional items continued 2013 Exceptional income In May 2012 Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group crystallising a number of warrants, which were granted to the Group under anagreement to list properties on the Zoopla website, which converted to ordinary shares.
At the merger date, the Group fair valued these shares at 12.2 million.
The shares were consideration for services provided to Zoopla over a period of time to 2015 and therefore recognised as deferred income.
The deferred income is being amortised to the income statement over the period to 2015 and the income recognised relates to one year of amortisation.
Exceptional costs In March 2013 the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange under a new holding company, Countrywide plc.
The costs charged to the income statement relate to costs incurred as a result of the listing but not directly related to the issue of new shares.
These costs include such items as marketing expenditure, executive search and selection and additional PAYE and NI triggered due to payments before the tax year end.
In May 2013 the Group repaid the 250 million Senior Secured Notes: as a result of the early redemption a penalty charge of 2.5 million was incurred.
At the same time, the existing revolving credit facility was cancelled and these events triggered the acceleration of previously capitalised finance costs.
Acquisition expenses principally relate to the costs of acquisition of Lambert Smith Hampton which, as a material acquisition in the current year, has been treated as exceptional.
Taxation Analysis of charge in year 2014 2013 000 000 Current tax on profits for the year 17,241 7,521 Adjustments in respect of prior years 701 1,894 Total current tax 16,540 5,627 Deferred tax on profits for the year Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3,747 1,385 Impact of change in tax rate 1,219 2,230 Adjustments in respect of prior years 138 950 Total deferred tax note 24 4,828 1,795 Income tax charge 11,712 3,832 2014 2013 000 000 Tax on items charged credited to equity Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments 369 1,235 Tax on items credited charged to other comprehensive income Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 507 137 The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% 2013: 23.25%.
The differences are explained below: 2014 2013 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 79,648 38,125 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.49% 2013: 23.25% 17,116 8,864 Effects of: Profits from joint venture 175 236 Other expenses not deductible 1,459 1,419 Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 231 104 Tax relief on purchased goodwill 302 273 Utilisation of unprovided losses 18 Rate change on deferred tax provision 1,219 2,230 Income not subject to tax due to availability of capital losses 4,850 962 Adjustments in respect of prior years 563 2,844 Overseas losses 15 8 Total taxation charge 11,712 3,832 The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies announced in the March 2013 Budget were substantively enacted for financial reporting purposes on 2 July 2013.
The main rate of corporation tax will further reduce to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using a rate of 20%.
92 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 12.
Dividends 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.0 pence net per share 13,167 interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 5.0 pence net per share 2013: 2.0 pence net per share 10,972 4,389 special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 9.0 pence net per share 19,750 Total 43,889 4,389 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10.0 pence net per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend of 21.9 million, is to be proposed at the annual general meeting AGM on 29 April 2015.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number ofordinary shares of Countrywide plc and, for periods prior to 25 March 2013, the weighted average number of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd shares as converted into Countrywide plc shares.
2014 2013 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,811,538 204,968,140 Basic earnings per share in pence per share 30.84p 16.53p For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from share options.
2014 2013 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,811,538 204,968,140 Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable share options 6,047,243 1,275,640 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 224,858,781 206,243,780 Diluted earnings per share in pence per share 30.01p 16.42p Adjusted earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 67,477 33,872 Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation: Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 5,990 2,738 Share-based payments charge 10,326 6,508 NI on share-based payments charge 1,607 1,351 Exceptional income 17,098 2,534 Exceptional costs 11,966 4,502 Exceptional finance costs 3,487 Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 80,268 49,924 Adjusted basic earnings per share in pence per share 36.68p 24.36p Adjusted diluted earnings per share in pence per share 35.70p 24.21p 14.
Intangible assets a Goodwill 2014 2013 000 000 Cost At 1 January 797,190 773,873 Arising on acquisitions note 29 38,726 23,317 Disposals 64 At 31 December 835,852 797,190 Accumulated impairment note 14 c At 1 January 417,356 417,356 Charge for the year At 31 December 417,356 417,356 Net book amount At 31 December 418,496 379,834 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets 2014 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 2,727 7,850 512 11,089 Additions 6,104 6,104 Disposals 212 1,272 1,484 At 31 December 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 396,904 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783 Charge for the year 4,423 9,568 512 32 14,535 On disposals 191 219 410 At 31 December 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 159,908 Net book amount At 31 December 14,433 184,895 37,668 236,996 Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2014 2013 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 6,381 6,360 Accumulated depreciation 532 Net book amount 5,849 6,360 2013 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 45,354 187,635 88,955 4,647 1,272 327,863 Acquisitions through business combinations 166 28,377 13,453 41,996 Additions 11,498 11,498 Disposals 162 162 At 31 December 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 40,584 33,844 54,952 4,647 136 134,163 Charge for the year 3,660 8,070 51 11,781 On disposals 161 161 At 31 December 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783 Net book amount At 31 December 12,773 182,168 39,386 1,085 235,412 All amortisation charges have been treated as an expense in the income statement.
Brand names are treated as having an indefinite life, as a result of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity and they are therefore subject to annual impairment reviews.
94 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 14.
Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets continued The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group have been disclosed below.
No amortisation has been disclosed as brands are considered to have an indefinite life and as such are tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
2014 2013 000 000 Brand names Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173 John D Wood 14,464 14,464 Mann & Co 9,418 9,418 Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709 Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071 Hamptons International 58,774 58,774 Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494 Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 28,377 154,480 154,480 Other brands 30,415 27,688 Net book value 184,895 182,168 c Impairment Due to the severe financial crisis originating in 2008 the following impairment charges have arisen in prior years: Brand Computer Goodwill names software Total 000 000 000 000 Estate Agency 227,156 33,844 261,000 Lettings 16,300 16,300 Financial Services 106,100 106,100 Surveying Services 40,000 10,500 50,500 Conveyancing Services 27,800 27,800 417,356 33,844 10,500 461,700 Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are allocated to cash generating units and have been allocated to the lowest level of reporting unit.
In many cases, the operations of the acquired businesses have been fully integrated with the existing businesses and therefore it is not possible to identify separately the economic flows from those businesses.
In these cases the goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been tested against the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit reported at the higher level.
The goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been allocated to cash generating units as follows: 2014 Estate Financial Surveying Conveyancing London Lambert Smith Agency Lettings Services Services Services & Premier Hampton Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 5,467 123,921 75,900 132,890 41,782 33,963 4,573 418,496 Indefinite life intangibleassets 82,053 1,227 73,238 28,377 184,895 87,520 125,148 75,900 132,890 41,782 107,201 32,950 603,391 2013 Estate Financial Surveying Conveyancing London Lambert Smith Agency Lettings Services Services Services & Premier Hampton Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 3,059 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 27,072 3,973 379,834 Indefinite life intangibleassets 80,553 73,238 28,377 182,168 83,612 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 100,310 32,350 562,002 The recoverable amount of all the above operations has been calculated using the value in use calculation determined from cash flow projections from formally approved budgets and forecasts covering a three year period to 2017 followed by modelled forecasts for two years to 2019 2013: five years to 2018.
The growth rates applied in the approved budgets and forecasts are based on past experience and outlook.
Thediscount rate used is based on the Groups estimated cost of capital.
To evaluate the recoverable amount of each division, a terminal value has been assumed from the fifth year and includes a growth rate in the cash flows of 0% 2013: 0% into perpetuity.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued c Impairment continued Under IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the Group is required to: review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment.
The reviews conducted at the end of 2014 concluded that there had been no further impairment of goodwill 2013: Nil : and review and test its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually each year or in the event of a significant change in circumstances.
The impairment reviews conducted at the end of 2014 concluded that there had been no further impairment of goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets 2013: Nil.
The impairment review for 2014 was conducted in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets by estimating the value in use of each ofthe cash generating units based on the following assumptions which management believes are appropriate given the 2015 budget and forecast for future years: the housing market remains flat during 2015, followed by modest growth of 3% in each of 2016 and 2017.
Thereafter no growth has beenassumed: the pre-tax discount rate was calculated to be 8% 2013: 8% : the benefits of past restructuring changes have been taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions: and the cash flows from professional indemnity claims were included in the Surveying Services division.
Based on the impairment test performed at 31 December 2014, there was no impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets required.
Sensitivity analysis The key assumption driving the value in use calculations is the growth rate of the housing transaction volumes.
Therefore, as part of the sensitivity analysis, management has considered the impact of applying a nil growth rate to the volume of housing transactions in 2015 and beyond and no growth in performance.
The results indicated that with no growth in housing transaction volumes in 2015 and beyond, the Surveying Services divisions goodwill would be impaired by 37 million 2013: 27 million largely as a result of increased professional indemnity liabilities.
Given that this division has secured additional contracts during the year and has plans in place for improved growth and efficiencies not wholly dependent on housing market transaction volumes, the directors do not consider that this impairment scenario is a likely outcome.
Sensitivity analysis was also undertaken in respect of the discount rate applied within the value in use calculations and significant headroom was available for movements in the discount rate applied, such that no potential impairments were identified.
Property, plant and equipment 2014 Furniture Assets in the Land and Leasehold Motor and course of buildings improvements vehicles equipment construction Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 86,418 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 29 22 372 394 Additions at cost 4,280 262 13,835 5,529 23,906 Disposals 99 524 150 1,304 2,077 At 31 December 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 341 16,767 14 37,823 54,945 Charge for the year 23 2,594 122 7,085 9,824 Disposals 24 429 79 1,119 1,651 At 31 December 340 18,932 57 43,789 63,118 Net book amount At 31 December 1,753 13,605 521 24,115 5,529 45,523 Assets in the course of construction with a value of 5,529,000 relate principally to branch refurbishments in progress for which no depreciation has been charged.
Depreciation will commence during 2015 when the assets enter operational use.
96 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2013 Furniture Land and Leasehold Motor and buildings improvements vehicles equipment Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 4,103 23,825 122 51,142 79,192 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 29 107 84 1,100 1,291 Additions at cost 5,512 276 9,780 15,568 Transfers 270 9 261 Disposals 1,911 393 47 7,282 9,633 At 31 December 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 86,418 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 930 15,157 16 39,493 55,596 Charge for the year 32 1,767 43 5,564 7,406 Disposals 621 157 45 7,234 8,057 At 31 December 341 16,767 14 37,823 54,945 Net book amount At 31 December 1,851 12,014 430 17,178 31,473 Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2014 2013 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 12,062 7,029 Accumulated depreciation 1,829 843 Net book amount 10,233 6,186 The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are between three and eight years.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2015 and the three subsequent years, isas follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 3,688 7,139 16.
Investment property 000 At 1 January 2014 Additions 13,017 Revaluation 218 At 31 December 2014 13,235 Investment property acquired, which is property held to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value.
Gains arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profits for the year to which they relate.
On 23 October 2014, the investment property has been transferred into a separate, unlisted, residential property fund, Albion PRS Investments Unit Trust.
In exchange, the Group received units in the property fund.
The full independent fund structure, effectively removing any exercise of control to an independent trustee, was not in operation at the year end and is due to be in place during the first half of 2015.
As a result, the assets are being consolidated and reflected directly within investment property.
However, this asset holding will be transferred to available-for-sale financial assets on completion of the independent fund structure and loss of control of the structure.
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2014 has been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by CBRE Limited, independent valuers not connected with the Group.
The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards.
The fair value was determined based on comparable market transactions on arms length terms and has been based on the Market Rent valuation technique.
The fair value hierarchy of the investment property has been deemed to be Level 2.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Investments a Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings, most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom.
Principal subsidiary undertakings ofthe Group at 31 December 2014 are presented below: Proportion of Proportion of ordinary shares ordinary shares held by held by Country of parent the Group Subsidiary Nature of business incorporation % % Countrywide Holdings, Ltd Holding company Cayman Islands 100 100 Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK 100 Balanus Limited Holding company UK 100 Estate Agency and Lettings Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK 100 London & Premier Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK 100 Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings Hong Kong 100 Surveying Services Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 100 Countrywide Social Housing Limited Surveying Services UK 58 United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 100 Conveyancing Services Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 Financial Services Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK 100 Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK 100 Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK 51 Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Property consultancy UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Limited N Ireland Property consultancy UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK 100 The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list ofsubsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014 will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests is presented below: Countrywide Social Housing Limited Capital Private Finance Limited 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Current assets 327 871 470 316 Non-current assets 3 3 5 5 Current liabilities 67 441 209 160 Non-current liabilities 103 54 Net assets 263 433 163 107 Revenues 877 1,069 1,889 1,453 Net profit 139 306 490 299 Dividends paid 309 321 435 260 98 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 17.
Investments continued b Interests in joint venture TM Group UK Limited At 31 December 2014 the Group had a 33% 2013: 33% interest in the ordinary share capital TM Group UK Limited TMG a UK company.
TMG has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is a private company with no quoted market price available for its shares.
TMGis one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector measured by completed searches.
Itdelivers arange of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches directly withspecific suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and has also started to supply IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
There are no outstanding commitments or contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2014 2013 000 000 At 1 January: net assets excluding goodwill 1,433 1,196 goodwill 1,480 1,480 2,913 2,676 Dividend received 507 778 Share of profits retained 813 1,015 At 31 December: net assets excluding goodwill 1,739 1,433 goodwill 1,480 1,480 3,219 2,913 The summarised financial information of TM Group UK Limited, which is accounted for using the equity method, is presented below: 2014 2013 000 000 Cash and equivalents 5,715 5,239 Other current assets excluding cash 2,474 2,074 Total current assets 8,189 7,313 Non-current assets 712 387 Current liabilities 3,684 3,400 Net assets 5,217 4,300 Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 1,739 1,433 Income 59,283 51,942 Depreciation 166 157 Expenses excluding depreciation 56,726 48,780 Interest income 48 40 Post-tax results 2,439 3,045 Share of post-tax results 813 1,015 There is no other comprehensive income arising in the joint venture in either year.
c Available-for-sale financial assets 2014 2013 000 000 At 1 January 42,877 14,370 Zoopla shares purchased for cash 2,090 1,054 Zoopla shares acquired on crystallisation of warrants 2,835 Disposal of Zoopla shares 17,786 Acquisition of shares in unlisted equity and debentures 96 Movement in fair value 3,200 27,475 Amortisation 22 22 At 31 December 33,290 42,877 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Investments continued c Available-for-sale financial assets continued Available for sale financial assets, which are all Sterling denominated, include the following: 2014 2013 000 000 Listed equity securities: Zoopla plc 33,165 Unlisted securities Zoopla Property Group Limited 42,824 Unlisted equity 60 20 Wimbledon debentures acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture 65 31 At 31 December 33,290 42,877 In May 2012, Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group and as a result crystallised some warrants into shares which were due under anarms length commercial agreement.
The fair value of these shares was assessed based on the most recent price paid for shares.
As a result ofacquiring the additional shares for a nominal price and the fact that these shares were issued to the Group as part of the commercial agreement signed in 2010 to list the Groups properties for sale and rent on the Zoopla website, the excess in the assessed fair value, of these shares oninitial recognition, over the nominal cost has been treated as deferred income and is being released over the period of the contract ending in 2015.
The amount released to the income statement is disclosed in note 10 and the amount held on the balance sheet as deferred income is identified in note 22.
In June 2014, Zoopla plc listed on the London Stock Exchange and as a result crystallised some additional warrants into shares which were due under afurther commercial agreement signed in 2014 to extend the listing period on the Zoopla website.
The excess in the assessed fairvalue ofthese shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost, has been treated as deferred income 2,835,000 and will be released over the three year period of the contract from 2016 to 2018 see note 22.
Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables not past due 42,512 44,450 Trade receivables past due but not impaired 22,818 19,002 Trade receivables past due but impaired 4,165 3,848 Trade receivables 69,495 67,300 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 4,165 3,848 Trade receivables net 65,330 63,452 Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,251 1,346 Other receivables 14,243 8,670 Prepayments and accrued income 17,820 18,386 98,644 91,854 Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material.
Trade receivables are considered past due once they have passed their contracted due date.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial contracts.
Further information in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 34.
As at 31 December 2014, trade receivables of 22,818,000 2013: 19,002,000 were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 36 months 11,974 10,148 Over 6 months 10,884 8,854 22,818 19,002 Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of 252,000 2013: 698,000 which are receivable inHong Kong Dollars.
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below: 2014 2013 000 000 As at 1 January 3,848 4,993 Additional provisions note 7 1,181 1,099 Amounts used 864 2,244 As at 31 December 4,165 3,848 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
100 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 19.
Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 16,578 20,675 Short term bank deposits 12,005 15,650 28,583 36,325 Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2014: 0.5%0.55% 2013: 0.5%1.5%.
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 2014 2013 000 000 Hong Kong Dollars 134 51 Barbadian Dollars 121 121 255 172 20.
Trade and other payables 2014 2013 000 000 Trade payables 13,875 13,625 Other financial liabilities 2,560 4,955 Deferred consideration 5,103 2,174 21,538 20,754 Other tax and social security payable 26,988 28,755 Accruals and other payables 65,130 63,912 113,656 113,421 Trade and other payables due within one year 109,312 106,286 Trade and other payables due after one year 4,344 7,135 113,656 113,421 The principal component of trade and other payables due after one year are: other financial liabilities in relation to put options 2,560,000 2013: 4,955,000 and accrued National Insurance as share-based payment charges of 613,000 2013: 1,710,000.
At 31 December 2014, other financial liabilities include put options of 2,560,000 2013: 4,955,000 to acquire the non-controlling interests in entities acquired in 2011 see note 17 a.
These financial liabilities are held at the present value of the expected redemption amount, which is based on managements expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans approved.
These options are exercisable as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Exercisable 2014 780 Exercisable 2016 2,560 4,175 2,560 4,955 The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities.
Financial liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of 135,000 2013: Nil.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings 2014 2013 000 000 Non-current Bank borrowings 80,000 70,000 Other loans 1,000 1,000 Capitalised banking fees 1,613 1,960 Finance lease liabilities 7,563 8,217 86,950 77,257 Current Bank borrowings 40,000 5,000 Finance lease liabilities 4,760 2,487 44,760 7,487 Total borrowings 131,710 84,744 Analysis of net debt At At 1 January Non-cash 31 December 2014 Cash flow changes 2014 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 7,742 28,583 Capitalised banking fees 1,960 813 1,160 1,613 Loan notes 1,000 1,000 Term loan due after one year 70,000 25,000 15,000 80,000 Term loan due within one year 5,000 15,000 20,000 Revolving credit facility due within one year 20,000 20,000 Finance leases due after one year 8,217 654 7,563 Finance leases due within one year 2,487 4,521 6,794 4,760 Total 48,419 47,408 7,300 103,127 Borrowings and other loans On 20 February 2014 the Company amended and extended the existing facilities, drawing down an additional 25 million term loan, and entered into a 150 million 2013: 100 million Term and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement which terminates in March 2017, for which there are no assets pledged as security.
The facilities are split between 100 million Term Loan and 50 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF.
The term loan is repaid by instalments: 20 million on 20 March 2015, 25 million on 20 March 2016, 55 million balance due on termination on 20 March 2017.
Interest is payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%.
The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin rate is reviewed annually.
The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants, and was drawn down by 20 million at the year end.
The unsecured loan notes are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited.
Finance lease liabilities Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: 2014 2013 000 000 No later than one year 5,087 2,811 Later than one year and no later than five years 8,444 8,334 Later than five years 592 13,531 11,737 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 1,208 1,033 Present value of finance lease liabilities 12,323 10,704 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 No later than one year 4,760 2,487 Later than one year and no later than five years 7,563 7,647 Later than five years 570 12,323 10,704 102 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 22.
Deferred income Deferred income will unwind as follows: 2014 2013 Cash Non-cash Total Total 000 000 000 000 Within one year 3,174 2,534 5,708 6,872 After one year: Between one and two years 3,076 945 4,021 5,189 Between two and three years 1,050 945 1,995 1,958 Between three and four years 945 945 1,146 Between four and five years 4 4,126 2,835 6,961 8,297 7,300 5,369 12,669 15,169 The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease incentives relating to the Groups operating leases.
The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
Non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in Zoopla.
This deferred income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreements which gave rise to these assets refer to notes 10 and 17.
Provisions continued The provision for onerous contracts relates to property leases and represents the estimated unavoidable costs of leasehold properties which have become surplus to the Groups requirements following the closure or relocation of operations.
The provision is based on the present value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected to be receivable from sub-lessees, typically over a five year period.
Provisions are released when properties are assigned or sub-let.
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
The average unexpired lease length of properties against which a provision has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life assurance policies that may lapse in the two years following issue.
Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any PI insurance excess, theestimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes.
The provisions represent the directors best estimate of the Groups liability having taken professional advice.
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims IBNR for mortgage valuation reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division.
The basis for calculating this provision isoutlined further in note3, Critical accounting judgements and estimates.
While there are many factors which determine the settlement dateof any claims, theexpected cash flows are estimated based on the average length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which isaround two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some ITtransition expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next four years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20% 2013: 21%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2014 2013 000 000 Deferred tax liability at 1 January 31,507 27,218 Credited to income statement 4,828 1,795 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary note 29 2,089 7,182 Disposed on disposal of subsidiary 13 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 507 137 Charged credited to equity 369 1,235 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 28,643 31,507 Deferred tax asset 16,215 15,418 Deferred tax liability 44,858 46,925 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 28,643 31,507 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 1,694 3,015 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 14,521 12,403 16,215 15,418 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year 1,600 3,792 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year 43,258 43,133 44,858 46,925 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits.
104 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 24.
Deferred tax continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and thereis an intention to settle the balances net.
2014 Credited to other Charged comprehensive Asset credited income charged liability to income to equity 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 7,535 1,395 Employee pension liabilities 1,043 396 507 Share-based payments 5,308 2,533 369 Trading losses 705 787 Intangible assets 43,970 4,123 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 887 Other temporary and deductible differences 1,623 750 28,643 4,828 138 2013 Charged to other Charged comprehensive Asset credited income credited liability to income to equity 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 8,976 1,312 Employee pension liabilities 932 452 137 Share-based payments 3,144 1,909 1,235 Trading losses 1,492 2,460 Intangible assets 46,030 5,380 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 886 Other temporary and deductible differences 865 1,270 31,507 1,795 1,098 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of 24,375,000 2013: 25,548,000 and 629,000 2013: 20,323,000 in respect of non-trading loan relationships, and 248,000 in respect of trading losses 2013: 449,000.
There is no expiry date attributable to these unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently no expectations of offsetting income streams arising, with the exception of the value noted below where an identical liability would also be recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax impact of the unrealised capital gain of 5,966,000 2013: 8,539,000 arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets because the unrecognised losses above would offset any future gain.
Post-employment benefits The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme to eligible employees, the only pension arrangements operated bytheGroup.
The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was 5,637,000 2013: 4,804,000.
Defined benefit pension arrangements In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement: however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently closed to further service accrual at the end of 2003.
Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable salary and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier.
The average duration of the defined benefit pension scheme is 16 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to its members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme.
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index RPI inflation.
The Scheme is established and administered in the UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman.
The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the scheme every threeyears and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees.
As such, the funding arrangements will be reviewed at the next valuation due at 5 April 2015.
The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately funded and the directors have agreed a funding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next four years.
During the year, the Group paid 1.9 million 2013: 1.9 million to the defined benefit scheme.
During the year which commenced on 1 January 2015, the employer is expected to pay contributions of 1.9 million 2014: 1.9 million.
Further contributions of 1.9 million will be made in each ofthe next four years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The Groups obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty.
While the trustees and actuary assess the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities to which are detailed later on.
Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in the equities and bond markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Schemes beneficiaries and they take independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method.
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent fullactuarial valuation at 5 April 2012, updated to 31 December 2014.
The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Present value of funded obligations 50,740 43,581 Fair value of plan assets 45,524 39,143 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 5,216 4,438 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2014 43,581 39,143 4,438 Expected return on scheme assets 1,771 1,771 Actuarial gain 4,252 4,252 Employer contributions 1,900 1,900 Service cost 105 105 Interest cost 1,929 1,929 Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 6,667 6,667 Benefits paid 1,437 1,437 Expenses 105 105 At 31 December 2014 50,740 45,524 5,216 Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2013 44,518 37,906 6,612 Expected return on scheme assets 1,669 1,669 Actuarial loss 474 474 Employer contributions 1,900 1,900 Service cost 124 124 Interest cost 1,924 1,924 Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 28 28 Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,015 1,015 Changes due to experience adjustments 84 84 Benefits paid 1,734 1,734 Expenses 124 124 At 31 December 2013 43,581 39,143 4,438 106 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are: 2014 2013 % % Cash 1 1 UK equities 5 6 Overseas equities 5 6 UK fixed interest gilts 12 11 Corporate bonds 47 45 Other GARS 10 10 Other insured pensioners 20 21 100 100 Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments.
All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or comprising quoted investments.
The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 2014 2013 000 000 Current service cost 105 124 Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities within finance costs 158 255 Total charge to the income statement 263 379 The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 2014 2013 000 000 Actuarial gain loss on scheme assets 4,252 474 Actuarial loss gain on scheme liabilities: Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions 6,667 28 Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions 1,015 Changes due to experience adjustments 84 Other comprehensive income 2,415 653 Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 507 137 1,908 516 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income after tax 7,127 5,219 The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2014 2013 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions On benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.15% 4.20% On benefits earned after 1 December 1999 2.80% 3.15% Discount rate 3.50% 4.50% RPI inflation 2.85% 3.25% CPI inflation 1.85% 2.45% Expected net return on plan assets 3.50% 4.50% Cash commutation 20% 20% Life expectancy at age 65 years Male pensioner member 22.8 22.8 Female pensioner member 25.0 25.0 Male pensioner non-member age 45 now 24.6 24.5 Female pensioner non-member age 45 now 26.9 26.9 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio isinvested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based onthe target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Sensitivity analysis The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used.
The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets with a significant exposure to equities is being compared with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields.
However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset volatility, including insuring some of the pensioners as illustrated by the asset portfolio.
The sensitivity analyses below are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to those disclosed in the Listing Prospectus.
Defined Change from benefit obligation disclosed deficit 000 000 Defined benefit obligation 50,740 Discount rate less 0.25% 52,599 1,859 RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 51,261 521 Members living one year longer than assumed 52,984 2,244 Defined benefit obligation trends: 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 Scheme assets 45,524 39,143 37,906 38,071 33,888 Scheme liabilities 50,740 43,581 44,518 44,534 39,394 Scheme deficit 5,216 4,438 6,612 6,463 5,506 Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 84 1,156 24 499 Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions for value ofscheme liabilities 1,015 644 Loss gain from changes in the assumptions for value ofschemeliabilities 6,667 28 1,150 4,237 1,021 Experience gain loss adjustments on assets 4,252 474 513 1,660 186 Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2014: Less than Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Undiscounted pension benefits 1,863 1,867 6,246 83,567 93,543 26.
Share capital Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each Number 000 At 1 January and 31 December 2014 219,444,961 2,194 The Company acquired 2,917,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout October and November 2014.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 13,262,000.
The shares are held as treasury shares.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date.
All shares issued by the Company were fully paid.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
At the year end, 225,151 shares 2013: 39,375 shares, costing 1,254,000 2013: 226,000, were held in relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was 12,860,000 in the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: 8,054,000, comprising 11,367,000 of equity-settled share-based payments, and 1,493,000 in respect of cash-settled share-based payments for the dividend accrual associated with those options.
Employers NI is being accrued, where applicable, at the rate of 13.8% which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
108 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 27.
Share-based payments continued The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding: Outstanding at 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number Charge of options Charge of options 000 thousands 000 thousands Accelerated management incentive plan 694 IPO plan 10,560 7,185 6,938 7,185 Long term incentive plan 2,097 1,550 407 758 Share incentive plan 203 225 15 26 12,860 8,960 8,054 7,969 Disclosed as an exceptional item see note 10.
A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below.
The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes andother schemes.
For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 62 to 64.
Executive schemes Long term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and vest over a three year period.
IPO plan At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company nil cost share options to executive directors and designated senior management designed for the grant of one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior to, and as a result of, the flotation the MIP.
IPO options granted to the executive directors become exercisable as follows: 50% on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option and 50% on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
IPO options granted to other participants will normally become exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
The number of options that will vest is subject to the performance criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well as continued service.
Management incentive plan MIP Certain members of the management team subscribed to the MIP, under whose terms senior management purchased shares in Countrywide Holdings, Ltd.
The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of shares granted to employees were treated as share-based payments.
Due to the share exchange on 18 March 2013 and subsequent reorganisation which crystallised the number of C shares exchanged, the vesting period was accelerated.
Other schemes Share incentive plan SIP An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013.
Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular monthly contributions into a scheme operated by Capita.
Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and an award of one matching share is made for every two shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of three years from the date of each monthly grant.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group is shown below: 2014 2013 Executive schemes Executive scheme LTIP IPO SIP LTIP IPO MIP SIP Number Number Number Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options of options of shares of options thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands At 1 January 758 7,185 26 13,046 Granted 792 199 758 7,185 26 Exchanged 12,961 Buy back 85 At 31 December 1,550 7,185 225 758 7,185 26 Executive schemes are granted at Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at Nil consideration.
None of the schemes were exercisable at the year end.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued Other schemes continued Share incentive plan SIP continued Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and all have Nil exercise prices : Share options thousands Exercise price Grant vest Expiry date pence 2014 2013 IPO plan 18 March 2013 18 March 2015 2016 18 March 2021 7,185 7,185 LTIP grants 6 September 2013 6 September 2016 6 September 2023 758 758 21 March 2014 21 March 2017 21 March 2024 546 8 September 2014 8 September 2017 8 September 2024 246 SIP plan Monthly rolling grants and vesting three years later 225 26 8,960 7,969 The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes: LTIP TSR LTIP IPO Share condition EPS condition plan incentive plan Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Binomial Lattice Fair value at grant date Weighted average share price at grant date 507.5p664p 507.5p664p 350p 531p Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p Weighted average contractual life 3 years 3 years 2.2 years 3 years Expected dividend yield n a 1.02.56% 1.5% n a Risk-free interest rate 0.50.9% 0.50.9% 1.8% n a Volatility Statistical analysis of three years share price data n a n a n a 28.
Other reserves The following table provides a breakdown of other reserves shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Capital Capital Foreign Available-for-sale Treasury reorganisation redemption exchange financial assets share reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 2013 45,540 29 953 46,464 Currency translation differences 27 27 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 27,475 27,475 Repurchase of shares 1 1 Capital reorganisation 92,820 45,541 47,279 Treasury shares 226 226 Balance at 1 January 2014 92,820 56 28,428 226 120,966 Currency translation differences 117 117 Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 11,076 11,076 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 3,200 3,200 Treasury shares 14,290 14,290 Balance at 31 December 2014 92,820 173 20,552 14,516 98,683 The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders equity: Share premium The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share premium and capital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve represents the cancellation of the original share capital and share premium of the Company and the par value of any shares repurchased.
110 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 28.
Other reserves continued Treasury share reserve The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the Company acquires its own shares and holds them as treasury shares as well as when the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital, until the shares are reissued.
See note 26 for full details of treasury shares held.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities ofoverseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets.
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The total consideration in respect of these acquisitions was 37.6 million and the most significant Lettings acquisitions were as follows: on 1 January 2014 the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Tucker Gardner Residential Limited and on 7 April 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of APW Holdings Limited and five subsidiary companies for the consideration noted in the table above.
The London & Premier division acquired six businesses as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under represented geographical areas for a total consideration of 9.4 million, the most significant of which was on 22 January 2014, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Preston Bennett Holdings Limited for the consideration noted above.
Lambert Smith Hampton and Conveyancing Services each acquired a business for 0.8 million and 1.0million consideration respectively.
The acquired trade and other receivables for all acquired businesses are all current and their fair value is not materially different.
Furthermore there are no contractual cash flows that are not expected to be collected.
The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no impact on tax deductions.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to 803,000 2013: 890,000 and have been written off to profit and loss.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions during the prior year During the prior year the Group acquired Lambert Smith Hampton and 28 small lettings businesses.
The total consideration paid was 50.4million and goodwill recognised was 23.3 million.
The proforma revenue and EBITDA generated by these businesses in 2013 was78.9 million and 0.2 million respectively.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 2014 2013 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment 000 000 000 000 Within one year 21,444 13,621 19,740 16,783 Later than one year and less than five years 46,654 16,706 42,004 14,530 After five years 24,001 18,964 92,099 30,327 80,708 31,313 At 31 December 2014, the Group had sub-leased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable leases as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Sub-leases Within one year 823 905 Later than one year and less than five years 842 1,383 After five years 142 1,149 1,807 3,437 32.
Client monies At 31 December 2014, client monies held by subsidiaries in approved bank and building society accounts amounted to 315,389,921 2013:248,995,000.
Neither the cash asset nor any corresponding obligation has been recognised by the Group.
These client monies aresubject to the following regulations: 25,277,154 Council for Licenced Conveyancers: 1,905,822 Financial Conduct Authority: and 288,206,945 Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category 31 December 2014 Loans and Available for receivables sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 33,290 33,290 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 80,824 80,824 Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 28,583 109,407 33,290 142,697 31 December 2014 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 119,387 119,387 Finance lease liabilities 12,323 12,323 Put options 2,560 2,560 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 83,127 83,127 2,560 214,837 217,397 112 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 33.
Financial instruments continued Financial instruments by category continued 31 December 2013 Loans and Available receivables for sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 42,877 42,877 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 73,468 73,468 Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 36,325 109,793 42,877 152,670 31 December 2013 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 74,040 74,040 Finance lease liabilities 10,704 10,704 Put options 4,955 4,955 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 77,274 77,274 4,955 162,018 166,973 34.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: cash flow and fair value interest rate risk: liquidity risk: counterparty credit risk: and price risk.
The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief finance officer.
Certain risks are managed centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre.
The policy for each of the above risks is described in more detail below.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest raterisk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Floating rate assets 16,578 13,822 Fixed rate assets 12,005 22,503 Interest-free assets 114,114 116,345 Total financial assets 142,697 152,670 Floating rate liabilities 118,387 73,040 Fixed rate liabilities 12,323 10,704 Interest-free liabilities 86,687 83,229 Total financial liabilities 217,397 166,973 The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2014 was 3.59% 2013: 3.59% and the average period for which the liabilities were fixed was 365 days 2013: 180 days.
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities.
The interest payable on the Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes was fixed: therefore, the Group was not exposed to the risk of cash flow risk arising from changes in the interest rates.
The interest payable on the term loan facility is at variable rates.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Financial risk management continued Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk continued The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups liabilities secured on a floating basis which are managed on a central basis.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the portion of liabilities exposed to the floating rates.
2014 2013 000 000 Increase in basis points 100 100 Effect on profit before tax 000 1,200 750 Decrease in basis points 50 50 Effect on profit before tax 000 600 375 Liquidity risk The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function who monitor rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy.
Acquisitions are carefully selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal process.
The Group is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations.
The requirement to pay creditors is managed through future cash generation and, if required, revolving credit facility.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting.
This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments and financial assets e. g. trade receivables and other financial assets and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions.
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits through economies of scale.
The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Groups forecast cash requirements.
The Group maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls.
The Group has a 100 million term loan facility which incurs interest payments quarterly.
The Group also has a 50 million revolving credit facility which provides additional liquidity resource.
The Groups discounted financial liabilities at the year end were as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Trade payables 13,875 13,625 Other financial liabilities 2,560 4,955 Deferred consideration 5,103 2,174 Borrowings 119,387 74,040 Finance lease liabilities 12,323 10,704 Accruals and other payables 64,149 61,475 217,397 166,973 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2014 2013 000 000 In less than one year 125,678 85,579 In more than one year but not more than two years 33,073 12,048 In more than two years but less than three years 57,303 23,202 In more than three years but not more than four years 1,991 46,123 In more than four years but less than five years 980 1,333 Over five years 1,000 1,592 220,025 169,877 114 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 34.
Financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk The Groups financial assets at the year end were as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 36,325 Trade receivables 65,330 63,452 Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,251 1,346 Other receivables 14,243 8,670 109,407 109,793 As stated in note 18 trade and other receivables are current assets and expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from credit sales.
It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts.
The majority of customers use the Groups services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale.
The majority of the commercial customers and the major lenders, customers of the surveying and asset management businesses, are large financial institutions and as such the credit risk is not expected to be significant.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three main types ofcustomer: 2014 2013 000 000 Individual customers 26,888 41,076 Major lenders 9,985 9,899 Other commercial customers 32,622 16,325 69,495 67,300 The Group treasury function manages the Groups cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of the capital is the overriding priority.
A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review.
The following table presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits the rest of cash and cash equivalents is cash in hand : 2014 2013 000 000 A1 6,249 A2 6,225 9,922 A3 837 26,375 BA1 15,272 28 28,583 36,325 Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available for sale amounting to 33,290,000 2013: 42,877,000.
If the price used in the 2014 year-end valuation had decreased by 5% the carrying value of the investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would have reduced by 1.7 million.
Capital management The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt subject to certain restrictions under the term loan facility, adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances: 2014 2013 000 000 Borrowings note 21 131,710 84,744 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 28,583 36,325 Net debt 103,127 48,419 Shareholders equity 531,378 520,723 Total capital 634,505 569,142 Gearing ratio 16% 9% During the year, the Group has complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest cover ratios associated with the term loan facility.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Financial risk management continued Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, as follows: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from process Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 33,165 125 33,290 Investment property 13,235 13,235 Liabilities Put options 2,560 2,560 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2013: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 42,877 42,877 Liabilities Put options 4,955 4,955 There was a transfer of available-for-sale financial assets from Level 3 to Level 1 during the period arising from the Zoopla Property Group plc IPO which completed in June 2014.
This gave rise to a change in valuation technique from that referred to below in Level 3 data to direct application of a quoted market price.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 and valuation processes The following changes were made in Level 3 instruments for the years under review: 2014 2013 Available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial assets Liabilities financial assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Opening balance at 1 January 42,877 4,955 14,370 5,560 Acquisitions 5,021 780 1,054 Disposals 17,786 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 1 38,990 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss 22 1,615 22 605 Gains and losses recognised in total comprehensive income 9,025 27,475 Closing balance at 31 December 125 2,560 42,877 4,955 The fair value of the Zoopla shares was assessed at the 2013 year end by reference to the recent transaction price paid for additional shares purchased in December 2013 by the Group and other shareholders in Zoopla.
In addition, other valuation methods were used to support the valuation adopted: a discounted cash flow was prepared and an appropriate discount rate was applied to reflect the fact that there is no liquid market for these shares which are also subject to pre-exemption rights and restrictions up to 2015 : and a valuation using an earnings multiple was undertaken.
The year-end valuation was reviewed in light of available data at 31 December 2013 and resulted in a 27.5 million uplift in valuation.
As noted in note 20, the fair value of put options is undertaken using a discounted cash flow based on managements expectation of performance of the underlying entities, consistent with operating plans approved.
This method continues to be based on unobservable marketdata, and therefore there have been no changes in valuation techniques adopted in the year and no changes in fair value hierarchies in respect of these liabilities.
The Groups finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 fair values.
This team reports directly to the CFO and Audit Committee.
116 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 35.
Related party transactions Key management compensation is given in note 6 b.
Other related party transactions are as follows: Trading transactions Transaction amount Balance owing owed 2014 2013 2014 2013 Related party relationship Transaction type 000 000 000 000 Joint venture Purchases by Group 2,539 2,190 193 183 Joint venture Rebate received 394 975 23 32 Joint venture Dividend received 507 778 Apollo Management Management fee paid 180 Apollo Management Directors fee paid 19 Oaktree Capital Management Management fee paid 180 Oaktree Capital Management Directors fee paid 40 35 10 With the exception of dividends and management fees, these transactions are trading relationships which are made at market value.
TheCompany has not made any provision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee been givenduring 2014 regarding related party transactions.
Prior to the IPO, Oaktree Capital Management and Apollo Management LP both owned in excess of 20% of the share capital of the Group.
Following the IPO, each entity had a director on the board of the Company until Apollo Management LP divested its shareholding in the second half of 2013.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group incurred Nil 2013: 359,000 split equally between Apollo Management and Oaktree Capital Management, in respect of management fees.
Following the IPO, management fees have not been incurred but fees have been payable in respect of each of the respective directors appointed to the Board at a rate of 40,000 per annum.
Events after the reporting period During the first few weeks of the year the Group has acquired five businesses for 6.9 million.
At the time of preparing these financial statements, management is in the process of assessing the impact of these acquisitions on the Group.
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2015, resulting in an increase in the facility to 250 million and reduction in interest margins payable.
For further details please refer to the Group financial review within the strategic report of the consolidated financial statements.
Since the year end and to the date of this report, the Company has acquired a further 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases ontheLondon Stock Exchange.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 6.8 million.
