120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 61 Glossary of Terms Dividend The income from an investment.
The Corporate Terms Company currently pays dividends to shareholders AAF Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued monthly.
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK GAAP and International GAAP IFRS AIC Association of Investment Companies.
This is or International Financial Reporting Standards the trade body for Closed-end Investment Companies applicable in the European Union.
financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 Gearing Unlike open-ended investment companies, and 2013, the Directive requires that all investment Closed-end Investment Companies have the ability to vehicles in the European Union, including Closed-end borrow to invest.
This term is used to describe the Investment Companies, must have appointed a level of borrowings that an Investment Company has Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund undertaken.
The higher the level of borrowings, the Manager before 22 July 2014.
The Board of Directors higher the gearing ratio.
of a Closed-end Investment Company, nevertheless, Leverage As dened under AIFMD rules, leverage remains fully responsible for all aspects of the is any method by which the exposure of an AIF is companys strategy, operations and compliance with increased through borrowing of cash or securities or regulations.
leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage Benchmark This is a measure against which an is broadly equivalent to Gearing, but is expressed as a Investment Companys performance is compared.
The ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and Company does not have a formal Benchmark but the net assets after taking account of borrowing.
does report its performance against the Investment Under the gross method, exposure represents the Property Databank IPD Quarterly Universe, which is sum of the Companys positions after deduction of used to determine whether a performance fee is cash balances, without taking account of any hedging payable to the Managers see note 2 to the or netting arrangements.
method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and Closed-end Investment Company A company netting positions are offset against each other.
with a xed issued ordinary share capital which is traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily Managers The Companys investment managers related to the Net Asset Value of the company and are F&C Investment Business Limited, and its property where shares can only be issued or bought back by managers are F&C REIT Property Asset Management the company in certain circumstances.
Further details are set out on pages 1 and 11 and with an open-ended investment company, which has in note 2a to the accounts.
units not traded on an exchange but issued or bought Market Capitalisation The stock market value of back from investors at a price directly related to the a company as determined by multiplying the number Net Asset Value.
of shares in issue, excluding those shares held in Depositary Under AIFMD rules applying from July treasury, by the market price of the shares.
2014, the Company must appoint a Depositary, Net Assets or Shareholders Funds This is whose duties in respect of investments, cash and calculated as the value of the investments and other similar assets include: safekeeping: verication of assets of an Investment Company, plus cash and ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under debtors, less borrowings and any other creditors.
It AIFMD regulations, the Depositary has strict liability for represents the underlying value of an Investment the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect Company at a point in time.
of which it has safekeeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties include, but are not limited to, Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share This oversight of share buy backs, dividend payments and is calculated as the net assets of an Investment adherence to investment limits.
The Companys Company divided by the number of shares in issue, Depositary is JP Morgan Europe Limited.
excluding those shares held in treasury.
Discount or Premium If the share price of an Ongoing Charges All operating costs incurred by Investment Company is less than its Net Asset Value the Company, expressed as a proportion of its per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
If the average Net Assets over the reporting year.
The costs share price is greater than the Net Asset Value per of buying and selling investments and derivatives are share, the shares are trading at a premium.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 62 Glossary of Terms continued excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring Lease A legally binding contract between a landlord costs and the costs of buying back or issuing and a tenant which sets out the basis on which the Ordinary Shares.
tenant is permitted to occupy a property, including the Lease length.
Ordinary Shares The main type of equity capital issued by conventional Investment Companies.
Lease Incentive A payment used to encourage a Shareholders are entitled to their share of both tenant to take on a new Lease, for example by a income, in the form of dividends paid by the landlord paying a tenant a sum of money to contribute Investment Company, and any capital growth.
As at to the cost of a tenant's t-out of a property or by 31 December 2014 the Company had only Ordinary allowing a rent free period.
Lease Re-gear This term is used to describe the Share Price The value of a share at a point in time renegotiation of a Lease during the term and is often as quoted on a stock exchange.
The Companys linked to another Lease event, for example a Break Ordinary Shares are quoted on the Main Market of the Option or Rent Review.
Lease Renewal The renegotiation of a Lease with SORP Statement of Recommended Practice the existing Tenant at its contractual expiry.
Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies Lease Surrender An agreement whereby the and Venture Capital Trusts issued by the AIC.
landlord and tenant bring a Lease to an end other Total Assets This is calculated as the value of the than by contractual expiry or the exercise of a Break investments and other assets of an Investment Option.
This will frequently involve the negotiation of a Company, plus cash and debtors.
surrender premium by one party to the other.
Total Return The return to shareholders calculated Net Income The net income from a property after on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the deducting ground rent and non-recoverable period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price expenditure.
The dividends are assumed to have been Net Initial Yield The initial Net Income from a reinvested in the form of Ordinary Shares or Net property at the date of purchase, expressed as a Assets.
percentage of the gross purchase price including the costs of purchase.
Rent Review A periodic review of rent during the Property Terms term of a Lease, as provided for within a Lease agreement.
Break Option A clause in a Lease which provides the landlord or tenant with an ability to terminate the Reversion Increase in rent estimated by the Lease before its contractual expiry date.
Companys External Valuer, where the passing rent is below the ERV.
The increases to rent arise on rent Covenant Strength This refers to the quality of a tenants financial status and its ability to perform the reviews and lettings.
Tenant's Improvements This term is used to describe a wide range of works that are usually Estimated Rental Value ERV The estimated annual market rental value of a property as carried out by a tenant, at its own cost, and usually require the landlords prior approval.
determined by the Companys External Valuer.
This will normally be different from the actual rent being paid.
Voids The amount of rent relating to properties External Valuer An independent external valuer of which are unoccupied and generating no rental income.
Stated as a percentage of ERV.
The Companys External Valuer is CBRE Limited and detailed information regarding the valuation of the Companys properties is included in note 9 to the accounts.
Fixed and Minimum Uplift Rents Rents subject to xed uplifts at an agreed level on agreed dates stipulated within the Lease, or rents subject to contracted minimum uplifts at specified review dates.
