Financial Statements continued Impact of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, there were a number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been published and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and later periods.
IFRIC 21 Levies, Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets, Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting, Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities, Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements and the suite of five standards on consolidation, joint arrangements and other interests in other entities IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 2011 and IAS 28 2011 have been endorsed by the EU.
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as issued in 2009 and subsequently amended in 2010 and 2014, IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions, Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and Annual Improvements 2011-2013 have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group has not early-adopted any standard, amendment or interpretation.
The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to have an impact upon the Group are: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was reissued in October 2010 as the second step in the IASB project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
During the year the IASB reissued IFRS 9 to include hedge accounting and details on early adoption.
The final revision to the standard incorporating the impairment, classification and measurement requirements was issued by the IASB in July 2014.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the revisions on the Groups results and financial position.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued on 28 May 2014.
This standard sets out revenue recognition conditions for the Group.
The impact of this standard on the Group is being assessed.
Amendment to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisition of Interest in Joint Operations.
The amendment requires companies to apply IFRS Business Combinations acquisition and disclosure requirements to investments in Joint Operations.
The only exemption from this is if the formation of the Joint Operation coincides with the formation of the business.
The adoption of the following standards, amendments and interpretations is not expected to have any material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group: The suite of five standards on consolidation, joint arrangements and other interests in other entities IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 2011 and IAS 28 2011 will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
These standards will not have a material impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This amendment provides guidance on the application of offsetting in financial statements.
This is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
This will not have an impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements reinstate the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial statements.
These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU and have not been early adopted by the Group.
These amendments are not expected to impact the Group.
IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
None of the amendments are expected to impact the Group.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
These amendments give guidance on exemptions from consolidating certain subsidiaries for investment entities.
The amendments are not expected to impact the Group.
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This amendment primarily reduces the circumstances in which the recoverable amount of assets or cash-generating units is required to be disclosed.
Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivative and Continuation of Hedge Accounting will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This amendment confirms that there is no need to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging derivative is novated, provided certain criteria are met.
IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on when to recognise a liability for a levy imposed by a government and will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This is not expected to impact the Group.
Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation has not yet been endorsed by the EU and has not been early adopted by the Group.
None of these amendments are expected to impact the Group.
Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions has not yet been endorsed by the EU and has not been early adopted by the Group.
This amendment is not expected to impact the Group.
The Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 Cycles includes amendments to a number of different accounting standards.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants have not yet been endorsed by the EU and have not been early adopted by the Group.
110 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed below the critical accounting judgements made and the key sources of estimation uncertainty within these Financial Statements.
Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no individual judgements that have a significant impact upon the Financial Statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dates, are discussed below.
Carrying value of land and work in progress The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and commercial development.
The majority of the development activity is not contracted prior to the development commencing.
Accordingly, the Group has in its Balance Sheet at 30 June 2014 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the Balance Sheet value of land and work in progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The Group conducts six-monthly reviews of the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
Where the estimated net realisable value ofthe site was less than its current carrying value within the Balance Sheet, the Group has impaired the land and work in progress value.
During the year, due to performance variations upon individual housebuilding sites, there were gross impairment charges of 26.5m 2013: 25.7m and gross impairment reversals of 22.0m 2013: 22.5m resulting in a net inventory impairment of 4.5m 2013: 3.2m included within profit from operations for housebuilding sites for development.
In addition there was a charge of 4.4m 2013: 9.1m related to housebuilding sites not currently under development due to changes in planning status and the viability of these sites.
There was also a gross impairment charge of 0.4m 2013: 0.6m and a gross impairment reversal of 0.4m 2013: 0.1m for the commercial developments business, resulting in a net inventory impairment of nil 2013: 0.5m, due to performance variations upon individual commercial sites.
The key judgements in these reviews were estimating the realisable value of a site, which is determined by forecast sales rates, expected sales prices and estimated costs to complete.
Sales prices were estimated on a site-by-site basis based upon local market conditions and took into account the current prices being achieved upon each site for each product type.
In addition, the estimation of future sales prices included an allowance on a site-by-site basis for low single-digit sales price inflation in future periods.
The estimation of costs to complete also included an allowance for low single-digit build costs inflation in future periods.
During the year the Group benefitted from stronger market conditions.
If the UK housing market were to change beyond management expectations in the future, in particular with regards to the assumptions around sales prices and estimated costs to complete, further adjustments to the carrying value of land and work in progress may be required.
The land held at the balance sheet date that has already been impaired is most sensitive to the judgements being applied and the potential for further impairment or reversal.
Forecasting risk also increases in relation to those sites that are not expected to be realised in the short to medium term.
Available for sale financial assets The Group holds available for sale financial assets principally comprising interest free loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property, which are held at fair value.
The fair value calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from the redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market value of the property at the estimated time of repayment, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The estimated market value is based on original selling prices and local market conditions with an allowance for low single-digit sales price inflation.
The estimated repayment profile is based on historical data for first time buyers selling their property.
The discount rate used is consistent with the interest rate payable on a third party second charge loan of a similar amount and duration.
The interrelationship between these assumptions, particularly those related to estimated market value and estimated repayment profile, means that there is not a direct correlation between house price inflation and the valuation of the Groups available for sale financial assets.
During the year, the levels of house price inflation and redemptions have been in line with those expected in the fair value calculation.
Accordingly, there has been no significant change in the Balance Sheet valuation due to the improved market.
At 30 June 2014, the total asset recognised on the Balance Sheet in relation to these secured loans was 122.4m 2013: 128.4m, with the reduction primarily due to redemptions.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 Financial Statements continued Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review The impairment review for the goodwill of the housebuilding business and the Groups indefinite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the housebuilding segment as defined in notes 12 and 13.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from the housebuilding business, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The discount rate used is based on the average capital structure of the Group, current market assessments of the time value of money and risks appropriate to the Groups housebuilding business.
Changes in these may impact upon the Groups discount rate in future periods.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 30 June 2014 was 792.2m and the indefinite life brands was 100.0m with no impairment recognised during the year ended 30 June 2014.
The conclusion of this impairment review was that given the current position of the housebuilding segment and the expectations as to its future performance based upon current forecasts for sales volumes and expected changes in both selling prices and costs to complete, the housebuilding segments goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired.
The recoverable value of goodwill and intangible assets exceeded its carrying value by 1,213.2m 2013: 1,140.6m.
If the UK housing market and expectations regarding its future were to deteriorate with either operating margins reducing by 3.3% per annum 2013: 3.8% per annum or the appropriate discount rate were to increase by 2.9% 2013: 2.6% and all other variables were held constant, then the recoverable value of goodwill and intangible assets would equal its carrying value.
Investment in joint venture holding non-current available for sale financial assets The Group holds a joint venture investment of 25.6m 2013: 25.8m in Rose Shared Equity LLP.
This entity holds non-current available for sale financial assets comprising interest free loans that are secured by way of a second charge on the respective property.
The Groups investment is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
In line with the Groups other joint venture investments, the carrying value is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
This review requires estimation of the cash flows expected to be received by the Group which is based upon calculation of the fair values of the loans held by the entity including an estimate of future cash flows expected from the redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market value of the property at the estimated time of redemption, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The estimated repayment profile is based on historic data for first time buyers selling their property.
Estimation of costs to complete In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Recognition of profit where developments are accounted for under IAS 11 Construction Contracts The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
The application of this policy requires judgements to be made in respect of the total expected costs to complete for each site.
The Group has in place established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation of costs and revenues is based upon appropriate estimates.
Defined benefit pension scheme The Directors engage a qualified independent actuary to calculate the Groups asset in respect of its defined benefit pension scheme.
In calculating this asset, it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, price inflation, the long term rate of return upon scheme assets and mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from those assumed, the pension asset may differ from that included in these Financial Statements.
The Group has obtained legal advice on the rights to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes assets after the death of the last member.
Based on this advice, the Group has concluded that it is appropriate to recognise an asset related to this scheme.
Deferred tax assets At 30 June 2014, the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of 19.6m comprising gross deferred tax assets of 43.5m and gross deferred tax liabilities of 23.9m.
19.7m of the gross deferred tax assets relate to losses that arose during preceding years, predominantly as a result of the refinancing and land impairments, which are to be carried forward and relieved against profits arising in future periods.
The judgement to recognise the deferred tax asset is dependent upon taxable profits arising in the same company as the losses originally arose and the Groups expectations regarding future profitability including site revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain a degree of inherent uncertainty.
112 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Hedge accounting The majority of the Groups facilities are floating rate, which exposes the Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has in place 137.0m 2013: 137.0m of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis that it is highly probable that there is sufficient forecast debt to match with the period of swaps.
If this basis was not met in the future any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, there was a gain of 7.7m 2013: 6.9m included in equity related to these swaps.
In addition, the Group has US$80.0m 2013: US$246.6m of cross currency swaps to manage the cash flow risks related to foreign exchange, arising from the Groups sources of US Dollar denominated finance.
These swaps are designated as a cash flow hedge against future foreign exchange rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be highly effective, any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, rather than equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, there was a loss of 7.3m 2013: gain of 0.7m included in equity related to these swaps.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113
