120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 60 Shareholder Information Dividends Change of Address Ordinary dividends are paid monthly.
Shareholders Communications with shareholders are mailed to the who wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank address held on the share register.
In the event of a account rather than by cheque to their registered change of address or other amendment this should address can complete a mandate form for the be notied to Computershare Investor Services purpose.
Mandates may be obtained from Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Computershare Investor Services Guernsey Limited, Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, signature of the registered holder.
Where dividends are paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, Shareholder Enquiries dividend tax vouchers are sent to shareholders Contact Northern Trust International Fund registered addresses.
Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Share Price Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
Additional information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the regarding the Company may also be found on its Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Prices website which is: www.
co. uk are given daily in the Financial Times under Investment Companies and in other newspapers.
Stated after application of a 10 per cent discount to the value of the Companys investments in indirect property funds.
Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non existent, or to buy shares at an inated price in return for an upfront payment.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams where you can nd out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
