Financial Statements continued Accounting Policies Year ended 30 June 2014 Basis of preparation These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations as adopted and endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable tocompanies reporting under IFRS and therefore the Group Financial Statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during thereporting period.
Although these estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most significant estimates made by the Directors in these Financial Statements are set out in Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the Financial Statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance and financial position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may have an impact upon the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 38 to 41 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in the Managing Risk section on pages 36 to 37, factors that particularly affect the performance of the Group include changes in the macroeconomic environment including buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Groups customers and interest rates.
The Group has total committed facilities and private placement notes of 848.4m.
The maturity of these facilities range from June 2016 to July 2021, with 150m of the revolving credit facility maturing in June 2016 and 550m of the revolving credit facility maturing in May 2018.
The committed facilities and private placement notes provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast debt requirements.
In addition to these committed borrowing facilities the Group has secured 32.4m of financing from the Governments Get Britain Building and Growing Places Fund schemes.
These funds are repayable between 31 December 2014 and 31 March 2018.
Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered forecasts and appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at least twelve months from the date of these Financial Statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the year ended 30 June 2014, the Group has adopted: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: and IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
The adoption of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement has resulted in a review of the way the Group values financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value see notes 24, 25 and 27.
In accordance with IFRS 13, the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities now includes an assessment of credit risk in respect of the counter party and own credit risk respectively.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, the Group had financial assets that included foreign currency swaps with a third party financial institution.
The Group has a net settlement arrangement with the financial institution in respect of the foreign currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
Due to this net settlement arrangement the Group has assessed credit risk associated with the foreign currency swap to be nil.
Therefore, the Groups foreign currency swaps financial assets fair values have not been restated for the comparative prior year.
102 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The financial liabilities at fair value relate to interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps with third party financial institutions.
In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement the Group has undertaken an assessment of its own credit risk.
When assessing the Groups own credit risk the Directors have considered the financial covenants, which the Group is party to as part of its senior lending facilities.
Following a review of these financial covenants the Directors believe that the Group has sufficient resources to fulfil its interest rate swap and foreign currency swap obligations in the future and the likelihood of default to be remote.
Therefore, the Group has assessed its credit risk as nil and has not restated its financial liabilities fair values for the comparative prior year.
The impact to the Group of adopting IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits has been a change in the calculation of the interest cost charged to the profit and loss on employee benefits.
In accordance with IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits, interest is now calculated on the net defined benefit asset liability.
The Group interest expense has been restated from 0.5m to 0.8m for the comparative year see note 3.
The increased finance cost has resulted in an equivalent credit being recognised in other comprehensive income.
There has been no impact on the defined benefit asset liability.
Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements include the results of Barratt Developments PLC the Company, incorporated in the UK, and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when control passes to the Group using the purchase method of accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and intercompany profits or losses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has established joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Jointly controlled operations The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled operations is accounted for on a direct basis and is included in the Income Statement.
The Groups share of its investments, assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis in the Groups Balance Sheet.
Associated entities An associated entity is an entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, in which the Group holds a significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Associated entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Revenue Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total proceeds of building and development.
An appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The sale proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Construction contracts Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims arising in respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction contracts when they have been specifically negotiated for the construction of a development or property.
When it is probable that the total costs on a construction contract will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement immediately.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade payables.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 Financial Statements continued Accounting Policies continued Exceptional items Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature are presented as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
The Directors are of the opinion that the separate presentation of exceptional items provides helpful information about the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring of existing and newly-acquired businesses, refinancing costs, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses or individual assets, pension scheme curtailments and asset impairments, including land, work in progress, goodwill and investments.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs are recognised in the Income Statement when the Group has a detailed plan that has been communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is accrued for unpaid restructuring costs.
Profit from operations Profit from operations includes all of the revenue and costs derived from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit from operations excludes finance costs, finance income, the Groups share of profits or losses from joint ventures and associates, tax and gains losses on disposal of investments.
Segmental reporting The Group consists of two separate segments for internal reporting, regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance, being housebuilding and commercial developments.
These segments therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within the Financial Statements.
All of the Groups operations are within Britain, which is one geographic market in the context of managing the Groups activities.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses is capitalised as an asset but reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination at acquisition being housebuilding and commercial developments.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at least annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Intangible assets Brands Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where a brand is considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over its useful life on a straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised with an indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that contribute to the durability of brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangible assets.
The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite life brands as part of the review of the carrying value of goodwill, by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount factor based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Investments Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any provision for impairment.
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary undertakings by the Company, they are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment in the subsidiary is increased accordingly.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values and asset lives are reviewed annually.
Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from one to seven years.
104 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development, is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred purchase credit terms, the carrying value differs from the amount that will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the Income Statement over the period of settlement.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments, there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Leases as lessee Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal instalments over the life of the lease.
Leases as lessor The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties following the completion of constructed developments until the date of the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Share-based payments The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Black-Scholes, Present-Economic Value or Monte Carlo models depending on the characteristics of the scheme.
The fair value is expensed in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
Non-vesting conditions are taken into account in the estimate of the fair value of the equity instruments.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not been reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 Financial Statements continued Accounting Policies continued Pensions Defined contribution The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in the Income Statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
Defined benefit For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Net-interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Past service cost, until the scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions to employees from 30 June 2009, was recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits were already vested, and otherwise was amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Borrowing costs The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset where developments are considered to fall under the requirements of IAS 23 Borrowing costs Revised.
Otherwise, the Group expenses borrowing costs in the period to which they relate through the Income Statement.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Available for sale financial assets Secured loans Non-interest bearing loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 17.
Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in equity within other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses arising from impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest calculated using the effective interest rate method are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Residential property fund Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
The fair value of consideration received is the initial fair value of the units received in the property fund.
The fair value of this investment is calculated using the unadjusted quoted price of units in the property fund obtained from independent brokers.
Gains and losses arising from impairment losses and changes in future cash flows are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
106 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets and are measured at amortised cost less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances are classified as trade and other receivables in the Balance Sheet.
Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
Impairment of financial assets Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer going into liquidation.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value of the loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale financial assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously subject to impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring after recognition of the impairment loss, are recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that they reverse the impairment loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and balances in bank accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade and other payables.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 Financial Statements continued Accounting Policies continued Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle the net outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position in the Balance Sheet.
Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective interest rate method in the Income Statement.
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement in the period to which they relate.
Get Britain Building The Group has received cash upon specific sites under the Governments Get Britain Building scheme, which is repayable in future periods, as the sites to which it relates are developed.
These loans are interest bearing and are recorded at the proceeds received plus accrued interest.
These loans are included within loans and borrowings.
Growing Places Fund The Group has received cash under a local government Growing Places Fund scheme which is repayable over four years in eight six-monthly instalments.
This loan is interest bearing and recorded at the proceeds received plus accrued interest less repayments to date.
This loan is included within loans and borrowings.
Derivative financial instruments The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the Groups operations and sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are designated as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change in future cash flows as a result of interest rate movements or hedges of a change in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency exchange rate movements.
The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than twelve months.
Hedge accounting All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of the hedged items.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency swaps are provided in notes 24, 25, 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in the Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity.
108 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Cash flow hedge To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until realised.
On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within finance charges in the Income Statement.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately in finance charges in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires, is sold or terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants are recognised in the Income Statement so as to match with the related costs they are intended to compensate for.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.
Grants related to income are included in the appropriate line within the Income Statement.
Kickstart The Group has been granted assistance for the development of a number of sites under the Homes and Communities Agency HCA Kickstart scheme.
Where receipts under the Kickstart scheme relate to grants, they are accounted for in accordance with the policy for Government grants stated above.
In addition, the Group has received cash upon specific sites under the Kickstart equity scheme which is repayable in future periods, as the sites to which it relates are developed, along with the share of the profits or losses attributable to the HCA arising from the sites.
This liability is included within borrowings and is initially recognised at fair value by discounting it at prevailing market interest rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling the liability, is amortised over the expected life of the site and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of the liability related to the HCAs share of the profits or losses of the site are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109
