120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at the of the next Annual General Meeting of the ofces of Northern Trust International Fund Administration Company after the passing of this resolution or on Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, expiry of 15 months from the passing of this St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands on Thursday, resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the 28 May 2015 at 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to Ordinary Business be allotted or Rights to be granted and the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in To consider and, if thought t, pass the following as pursuance of such offer or agreement: and Ordinary Resolutions: ii this authority is in substitution for all previous 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year authorities conferred on the Directors in accordance ended 31 December 2014 be received and approved.
with sections 292 or 293 or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended 2.
That the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration for from time to time but without prejudice to any the year ended 31 December 2014 be approved.
allotment of shares or grant of Rights already made 3.
That Mr P C E Cornell, who retires at the first Annual or offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such be elected General Meeting following his appointment, authorities.
To consider and, if thought t, pass the following as 4.
That Mr D E Preston, who retires at the first Annual Special Resolutions: General Meeting following his appointment, be elected as a Director.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in 5.
That Mrs T Clark, who retires annually, be re-elected as the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to a Director.
convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities for cash, including by way of a sale 6.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires annually, be re-elected of ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury as a Director.
shares, as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules made by 7.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be rethe Financial Conduct Authority under part VI of the elected as a Director.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended 8.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, a Director.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General as a Director.
Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the 10.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, auditor.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might 11.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the require equity securities to be allotted after such auditors remuneration.
expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if 12.
That, to the extent required by sections 292 and 293 the power conferred hereby had not expired: and or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended from time to time : b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities i the Directors be generally and unconditionally up to an aggregate nominal value of 799,366 authorised to allot shares comprised in the share being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal capital of the Company as described in the value of the issued share capital of the Company, Companys Articles of Incorporation or grant as at 9 April 2015. options, warrants or other rights in respect of 14.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with shares in the Company the Rights provided that Section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, this authority shall be limited to the allotment of to make market acquisitions within the meaning of shares or Rights to be granted in respect of shares Section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, with an aggregate nominal value of up to 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary 799,366, being approximately 10 per cent of the Shares either for retention as treasury shares for nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2015 and further provided future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or that: Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 64 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby Notes: authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need this resolution is passed: not be a member of the Company.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each Ordinary Share shall be 1p: proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the form of proxy should be completed and sent, together middle market quotations as derived from the Daily with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certied copy of such Ofcial List for the Ordinary Shares for the five power or authority, so as to reach the Companys business days immediately preceding the date of registrars Computershare Investor Services Guernsey purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent Limited, c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 trade and the highest current independent bid on 6ZY not later than 12.30 pm on 26 May 2015. the trading venue which the purchase is carried 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent out: and a member from attending in person at the Meeting should he or she so wish.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his Company to be held in 2016, or on 28 November or her name entered on the register of members not later 2016, whichever is the earlier, save that the than close of business on 26 May 2015.
Changes to Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such determining the rights of any member to attend and vote authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary at such Meeting.
Shares pursuant to any such contract.
As at 9 April 2015, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of shares with voting rights was 799,366,108, each carrying one voting right.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration 7.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than Services Guernsey Limited the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he Secretary and such third party complies with their respective PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL Transparency Rules.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
