Strategic report Governance Financials 103 iii New and amended standards not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there were a number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations in issue that have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has no plan to adopt these standards earlier than the effective date.
Those that are most relevant to the Group are set out below.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, replaces IAS 39 and sets out the requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts, replaces both IAS 11 and IAS 19 as well as SIC 31, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15 and IFRIC 18 and establishes a single, comprehensive framework for revenue recognition.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
All the above IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards are still to be endorsed by the European Union EU at the date of approval of these financial statements.
The directors are currently considering the potential impact arising from the future adoption of these standards and interpretations listed above.
2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The Groups significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group performs sensitivity analysis as part of the risk management process.
The directors consider that a - 1% 2013: 1% movement in interest rates, a - 10 percentage point 2013: 10 percentage point movement in Sterling exchange rates and a - 1 percentage point 2013: 1 percentage point movement in house prices represents a reasonable possible change.
Valuation of residential property The Groups residential trading property is carried in the statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The Groups investment property is carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The Group does, however, in its principal net asset value measures, NAV and NNNAV, include trading stock at market value.
The market value of the Groups property which, in the case of investment property, is the same as fair value is detailed below.
The valuation methodologies described below determine the fair value of property.
Further details are included within note 29.
As trading property is only shown at market value within the NAV and NNAV measures it is excluded from note 29.
The directors believe that, were the market value of trading property included, it would fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as defined by IFRS 13.
104 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED The results and the basis of each valuation and their impact on both the statutory financial statements and market value for the Groups net asset value measures are set out below: % of properties Fund and for which UK Retirement third-party UK and European German external valuer residential solutions management developments residential provides UKR RS Funds Development Germany Total valuation m m m m m m % Trading property 788.4 137.4 94.4 1,020.2 Investment property 140.1 47.8 148.4 336.3 Financial asset 94.5 94.5 Total statutory book value 928.5 279.7 94.4 148.4 1,451.0 Allsop LLP Directors in-house valuation 995.5 995.5 51% RS 344.6 344.6 100% Grainger Invest 343.1 343.1 100% Tricomm investment valuation 109.1 109.1 100% Cushman and Wakefield LLP 148.4 148.4 100% CBRE Limited 107.2 107.2 100% Total assets at market value 1,447.7 344.6 107.2 148.4 2,047.9 Trading property 1,307.6 202.3 107.2 1,617.1 Investment property 140.1 47.8 148.4 336.3 Financial asset 94.5 94.5 Total assets at market value 1,447.7 344.6 107.2 148.4 2,047.9 Statutory book value 928.5 279.7 94.4 148.4 1,451.0 Market value uplift 519.2 64.9 12.8 596.9 Net revaluation gain recognised in the income statement for wholly owned properties 6.4 1.2 6.1 1.5 Net revaluation gain relating to joint ventures and associates 37.0 2.2 39.2 Net revaluation gain recognised in year 6.4 1.2 37.0 3.9 40.7 The market value uplift is the difference between the statutory book value and the market value of the Groups properties.
Refer to note 4 for market value net asset measures.
Includes Group share of joint ventures and associates revaluation gain before tax Includes investment property classified as held-for-sale Strategic report Governance Financials 105 i Directors in-house valuation The Groups own in-house qualified surveying team provided a vacant possession value for the majority of the Groups UKR properties as at 30 September 2014.
A structured sample of these in-house valuations was reviewed by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason it is undertaken on an external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when the in-house valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, a high proportion, this year around 75%, of the valuations are within a small acceptable tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better information about internal condition is available or that respective valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the Group and the valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted as the directors valuation.
Overall, across all of the properties valued by Allsop LLP, the directors valuations were approximately 1.33% higher than the Allsop LLP values.
Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following opinion on the directors valuation: Property held in the UK residential portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2014 by Graingers in-house surveyors.
These valuations were reviewed and approved by the directors.
Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the directors valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the UK residential portfolio, independently of the Group.
Based on the results of that review Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of confidence in those directors valuations.
Allsop LLP also recommend the discount to apply to the vacant possession valuations to establish the market value of each property.
For property in UK residential the discounts are established by tenancy type and are based on evidence gathered by Allsop LLP from recent transactional market evidence.
The directors have adopted all of the recommendations made by Allsop LLP in relation to the discounts.
ii Grainger Invest GInvest All of the property owned by the Group in the GInvest portfolio was valued as at 30 September 2014 by Allsop LLP who are external independent valuers.
The market values of the properties subject to the assumption that the dwellings would be sold individually, which is deemed to be the highest and best use, in their existing condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies was provided by Allsop LLP.
The valuers opinion of market value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms-length terms.
iii Tricomm investment valuation Allsop LLP has also valued as at 30 September 2014 the property assets owned by the Group and let under a long-term lease arrangement with the Secretary of State for Defence under a PFI Project Agreement.
Allsop LLP has provided an Investment Valuation which is defined as the value of an asset to the owner or a prospective owner for individual investment or operational objectives.
The Investment Valuation has been made in accordance with RICS Valuation Professional Standards 2014, and is based on a discounted cash flow model.
Significant unobservable inputs within the valuation relate to assumptions for house price inflation and the discount rates to apply to the cash flows.
The assumptions adopted for house prices are 4% in 2015 to 2018, 3.5% in 2019 and 3% thereafter.
The discount rates applied to the cash flows range between 4.9% and 9.5%.
iv Retirement solutions All of the property owned by the Group in the Retirement solutions portfolio was valued as at 30 September 2014 by Allsop LLP who are external independent valuers.
Allsop LLP undertake a Red Book valuation of approximately a third of the portfolio in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards Global and UK Edition as amended including an internal inspection.
Using the results of the internal inspection programme as a base, Allsop LLP inspect an additional sample of the Retirement solutions portfolio externally in order for Allsop LLP to have seen a sample of 50% of the Retirement solutions portfolio within the previous 12 months as at every 30 September year-end valuation date.
To value the remaining properties within the Retirement solutions portfolio Allsop LLP undertake a valuation using desktop valuation methodology, based wherever possible on a physical inspection which will have been undertaken at a minimum of 23 months prior to the year-end date.
For property in Retirement solutions, the discounts recommended by Allsop LLP are on a property-by-property basis taking into account a number of factors, primarily the estimated period until vacant possession may arise and the appropriate discount rate.
106 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED v Cushman and Wakefield German residential The whole of the property portfolio in Germany was valued as at 30 September 2014 by Cushman and Wakefield LLP who are external independent valuers.
Whilst in the UK, valuers rely predominantly on recent transactional evidence for similar properties to value investment property, in Germany investment property is valued using an income capitalisation approach under which net rental income is discounted to a net present value.
Both methodologies are permitted under IFRS 13. vi CBRE UK and European development The current market value of the Groups land and property held within the development segment has been assessed by CBRE Limited who are external independent valuers.
Their valuation is on the basis of fair value as defined in the RICS Professional Valuation Standards 2014 where fair value is the same as market value.
vii Joint ventures and associates The valuation methodology for assets held within joint ventures and associates is as described above for each of the divisions with the exception of assets held within the GRIP Unit Trust GRIP, Walworth Investment Properties Limited WIP and MH Grainger JV Sarl, all of which are shown within the Funds division.
WIP is valued on the same basis as the GInvest portfolio.
MH Grainger Sarl is valued on the same basis as the German residential portfolio.
Valuations of 100% of the GRIP portfolio were carried out at 30 June 2014 by external valuers, Savills UK Limited.
In aggregate, the valuation of the individual dwellings as at 30 June 2014 was 457.9m for all assets still held at September.
After full consideration of house price movements in those areas where GRIP property assets are situated the Groups directors made an adjustment to the 30 June 2014 valuations based on the movement in house price indices to 30 September 2014 and an adjustment for sales, purchases and capital expenditure, in assessing the Groups share of GRIP net assets for the purposes of the Groups accounts to 30 September 2014.
The Groups share of the revaluation gain based on the indexed revaluation was 4.5m.
For every 1% movement in the market value of the GRIP investment property the Groups share of the movement would amount to 1.2m.
The directors consider the valuations provided by external valuers to be representative of fair value.
As required by RICS Valuation Professional Standards, all of the external valuers in the UK mentioned above have made full disclosure of the extent and duration of their work for, and fees earned by them from, the Group, which in all cases are less than 5% of their total fees.
Net realisable value of trading property The Groups residential trading properties are carried in the statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As the Groups business model is to sell trading stock on vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds which the Group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2014 to write down properties expected to be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
The provision has been assessed on what the Group considers to be reasonable assumptions.
These allow for a 4.8% growth in property prices in 2015 followed by growth in house prices of 4.4% in 2016, 3.9% in the following two years to 2018 with price increases thereafter in line with conservative historical house price growth rates.
The assumptions also allow for an annual vacancy rate of 7.6%.
The Group does sell some property as investment sales, a sale with the tenant still in situ.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2014 against projected investment sales.
In aggregate a credit of 0.5m has been made in the 2014 income statement 2013: credit of 0.9m to adjust the book value of trading properties to the lower of cost.
A 1% increase decrease in house prices would increase decrease the provision by 0.1m.
A 1% increase decrease in annual vacancy rate assumptions would increase decrease the provision by 0.1m.
Land and property held within the Development segment of the business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made when, and to the extent that, total projected project costs exceed total projected project revenues.
Strategic report Governance Financials 107 Where land and property is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions adopted as at 30 September 2014 are based upon the current intentions of the directors.
In addition, estimates at 30 September 2014 of project profitability are based on assumptions regarding projected build costs and sales proceeds for those sites where development is expected to occur.
In some cases these projections are made without the benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
The assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
It is possible therefore that any net realisable value provision required should be more than or less than that made.
A credit of 2.7m has been made in the 2014 income statement 2013: charge of 0.2m in adjusting the book value of development stock to net realisable value.
In addition a charge of 2.4m relating to a loan receivable secured against property refer to note 25 has been taken to the income statement 2013: nil.
Valuation of financial interest in property assets The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the effective interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
The valuation methodology adopted is set out in note 1 g above.
The key assumptions affecting the carrying value are house price inflation and the effective interest rate.
The fair value of our interest has decreased as cash flows are realised and an increase of 1.0m 2013: decrease of 0.3m in the fair value has been recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income and the available-for-sale reserve.
The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are 4.0% for 2015 and 2016, 3.5% to 2018, rising to 4.0% thereafter.
A change of 1% to average house price inflation over the 10-year period from 1 October 2014 would either increase the valuation by 4.6m or reduce the valuation by 4.3m.
At 30 September 2014 it is estimated that, with respect to the Groups financial interest in property assets a general increase decrease of one percentage point in house prices at the statement of financial position date would increase decrease the Groups profit before tax by approximately 0.7m 2013: 0.8m.
There is no additional effect on equity as a result of a change in house prices as, in accordance with IAS 39 AG8, changes to future cash flow assumptions are recognised though the income statement.
Consideration has been given to the current market value of the financial asset based on our assessment of a market discount rate.
We have concluded that the discount rate as at 30 September 2014 should be the same as the rate adopted at 30 September 2013 which is 0.85% lower than the effective interest rate when the financial interest was acquired.
A 1% change to this discount rate would either increase the carrying value by 7.8m or reduce the carrying value by 6.8m.
We have considered the impact of changes to the vacation rate used in the cash flow model, and in the current year have made a change to the vacation rate based on updated mortality tables and experience of the portfolio.
The income statement impact was to reduce profit by 1.7m.
Credit risk arises from the credit exposure relating to cash receipts from the financial instrument.
All of the cash receipts are payable by the Church Commissioners, a counterparty considered to be low risk as they have no history of past due or impaired amounts and there are no past due amounts outstanding at the year end.
Distinction between investment and trading property The Group considers the intention at the outset when each property is acquired in order to classify the property as either an investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is to either trade the property or where the property is held for immediate sale upon receiving vacant possession within the ordinary course of business, the property is classified as trading property.
Where the intention is to hold the property for its long term rental yield and or capital appreciation, the property is classified as an investment property.
108 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments Fair value measurements for derivative financial instruments are obtained from quoted market prices and or valuation models as appropriate.
When not directly observable in active markets, the fair value of derivative contracts must be computed internally based on internal assumptions as well as directly observable market information, including forward and yield curves for commodities, currencies and interest.
Changes in internal assumptions and forward curves could materially impact the internally computed fair value of derivative contracts, particularly long-term contracts, resulting in corresponding impact on income or loss in the consolidated income statement.
The Group utilise an external independent valuer, J C Rathbone Associates Limited, to provide recommendations on the internal assumptions which have been fully adopted by the directors.
Going concern The directors are required to make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue to trade as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
The directors have given this matter due consideration and have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group financial statements on a going concern basis.
The main considerations were as follows: i Covenant compliance The Groups core banking facility has two covenants, being loan-to-value LTV and interest cover.
At 30 September 2014 the LTV was 42% compared to a default level of 75% and the interest cover ratio was 3.7 times compared to a minimum requirement of 1.35 times.
The Group has other bank debt on which there are also covenant requirements.
As at 30 September 2014, the Group is operating comfortably within these requirements.
The directors have reviewed the Groups financial projections covering a minimum period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements, and which include covenant compliance forecasts.
These projections show that the Group will comfortably meet its covenant requirements.
ii Banking facilities The Groups existing core facilities were 703.9m on 30 September 2014, of which 457.1m were drawn.
The Group had free cash balances plus available overdraft of 55.5m and undrawn committed facilities of 241.6m, in total, headroom, of 297.1m at 30 September 2014.
The next maturity on the core facility is in December 2014 when a repayment of 30m is required.
The directors have reviewed the available headroom of the Group, and confirmed that even without any further management actions, the Group has sufficient resources to meet future repayments as they fall due.
As has been demonstrated over the past few years, the Group is able to generate strong cash flows even in very difficult general market conditions.
The Groups cash flow projections confirm that the Group will remain well within its facilities for a minimum period of at least 12 months beyond the date of signing of these financial statements.
