Strategic report Governance Financials 79 Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC Areas of focus REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Valuation of investment properties and STATEMENTS inventories trading properties.
financial statements is applicable law and Our opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Valuation of derivative In our opinion, Grainger plcs financial instruments.
Our audit approach Group financial statements the Recoverability of deferred consideration financial statements : Materiality from the disposal of the former subsidiary give a true and fair view of the state of Overall Group materiality: 5.8m, which Equity Release Increments Limited the Groups affairs as at 30 September represents 5% of average operating ERIL.
2014 and of its profit and cash flows for profit before valuation movements and the year then ended: Risk of fraud in revenue recognition non-recurring items OPBVM over a through the posting of manual entries.
have been properly prepared in three year period.
accordance with International Financial The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Audit Scope Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We conducted our audit in accordance with The scope of our Group audit was by the European Union: and International Standards on Auditing UK determined through assessment of the have been prepared in accordance with and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
location of the underlying accounting the requirements of the Companies Act We designed our audit by determining books and records, of which there are 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
materiality and assessing the risks of two distinct components: the head office material misstatement in the financial in Newcastle upon Tyne, and the German What we have audited statements.
In particular, we looked at residential business in Frankfurt.
Grainger plcs financial statements where the directors made subjective The head office was assessed as a full comprise: judgements, for example in respect scope component, with audit procedures the Consolidated statement of financial of significant accounting estimates performed over all material account position as at 30 September 2014: that involved making assumptions and balances combined with testing of Group the Consolidated income statement considering future events that are inherently account balances managed centrally from and the Consolidated statement of uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also this location, including treasury line items comprehensive income for the year addressed the risk of management override Specific audit procedures were then ended: of internal controls, including evaluating performed over account balances in the whether there is evidence of bias by the the Consolidated statement of cash flows German residential business, based on directors that may represent a risk of for the year then ended: our assessment of the risk of material material misstatement due to fraud.
the Consolidated statement of changes in misstatement by both their nature The risks of material misstatement equity for the year then ended: and and value.
This work involved visiting that had the greatest effect on our audit, the notes to the Group financial and performing audit procedures at including the allocation of our resources statements, which include a summary of the Groups Frankfurt office on those and effort, are identified as areas of significant accounting policies and other account balances at this location that focus in the table below together with explanatory information.
contributed significantly to the Groups an explanation of how we tailored our financial performance and or position.
audit to address these specific areas.
This is Certain required disclosures have been not a complete list of all risks identified by presented elsewhere in the Annual Report our audit.
and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
