180 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials Glossary of terms PROPERTY Contingent tax Net net net asset value triple net or The amount of tax that would be payable NNNAV Assured periodic tenancy APT should trading property be sold at the Gross NAV adjusted for deferred tax and Market-rented tenancy arising from market value shown in the market value those contingent tax liabilities which would succession from a regulated tenancy.
accrue if assets were sold at market value Tenant has security of tenure.
and for the fair value of long-term debt Dividend cover Assured shorthold tenancy AST and derivatives.
Earnings per share divided by dividends Market-rented tenancy where landlord per share.
Return on capital employed may obtain possession if appropriate notice Operating profit after net valuation is served.
Earnings per share EPS movements on investment properties plus Profit after tax attributable to shareholders Assured tenancy AT the share of results from joint venture divided by the weighted average number of Market-rented tenancy where tenant has associates plus the movement on the shares in issue in the year.
uplift of trading stock to market value as Gearing a percentage of opening gross capital Investment value IV or market value The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to defined as investment property, financial Open market value of a property subject to market net asset value.
interest in property assets CHARM, relevant tenancy in place.
investment in joint venture associates and Goodwill Home reversion trading stock at market value.
On acquisition of a Company, the Rent free tenancy where tenant has the difference between the fair value of net Return on shareholders equity right of occupation until possession is assets acquired and the fair value of the Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the forfeited usually on death.
If the tenant purchase price paid.
dividend per share relating to each year as a retains an equity interest in the property percentage of opening NNNAV.
this is a partial life tenancy.
Gross net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the Swap PRS market value of property assets held as Financial instrument to protect against Private rented sector.
stock but before deduction for deferred interest rate movements.
Regulated tenancy tax on property revaluations and before Total shareholder return TSR Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Return attributable to shareholders on Act.
Rent usually sub-market is set by the Hedging the basis of share price growth with rent officer and the tenant has security The use of financial instruments to protect dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC Tenanted residential TR Interest cover The weighted average cost of funding the Activity covering the acquisition, renting Profit on ordinary activities before interest Groups activities through a combination of out and subsequent sale usually on and tax divided by net interest payable.
vacancy of residential units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Loan to value LTV CORPORATE Ratio of net debt to the market value Vacant possession value VP or VPV of properties.
IFRS Open market value of a property free from International Financial Reporting Standards, any tenancy.
Recurring Profit mandatory for UK-listed companies for Profit before tax before valuation accounting periods ending on or after FINANCIAL movements and non-recurring items.
Cap Operating Profit before Valuation Movements Financial instrument which, in return for OPBVM a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the Operating profit before valuation interest rate on a loan.
