Strategic report Governance Financials 95 Notes to the financial statements 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the London Stock Exchange and the address of the registered office is given on page 179.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the Group, and equity account the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company and not about its Group.
These financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014 have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS IC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 162 to 166.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the following assets and liabilities, and corresponding income statement accounts, which are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments, financial interest in property assets and assets classified as held-for-sale.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events and amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 2. b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
ii Goodwill and impairment The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed in the consolidated income statement under the heading Other expenses.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included within this caption on the statement of financial position.
Goodwill on acquisition ofjoint ventures and associates is included in investments in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
iii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
