Strategic report Governance Financials 85 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
The statement given by the directors on page 3, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions to report arising from Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, this responsibility.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 58, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions to report arising from the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the this responsibility.
Adequacy of information and explanations Directors remuneration Corporate governance statement received Under the Companies Act 2006 we Under the Listing Rules we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are are required to report to you if, in our to review the part of the Corporate required to report to you if, in our opinion, opinion, certain disclosures of directors Governance Statement relating to the we have not received all the information remuneration specified by law are not parent companys compliance with nine and explanations we require for our audit.
made, and under the Listing Rules we are provisions of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions to report arising required to review certain elements of Code.
We have nothing to report having from this responsibility.
the report to shareholders by the Board performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
86 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED What an audit of financial statements involves RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE In addition, we read all the financial and An audit involves obtaining evidence about non-financial information in the Annual FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND the amounts and disclosures in the financial Report to identify material inconsistencies THEAUDIT statements sufficient to give reasonable with the audited financial statements Our responsibilities and those of the Directors assurance that the financial statements are and to identify any information that is As explained more fully in the Statement free from material misstatement, whether apparently materially incorrect based of directors responsibilities set out on caused by fraud or error.
This includes an on, or materially inconsistent with, the page77, the directors are responsible for assessment of: knowledge acquired by us in the course of the preparation of the financial statements whether the accounting policies are performing the audit.
If we become aware and for being satisfied that they give a true appropriate to the Groups circumstances of any apparent material misstatements or and fair view.
and have been consistently applied and inconsistencies we consider the implications Our responsibility is to audit and adequately disclosed: for our report.
express an opinion on the financial the reasonableness of significant statements in accordance with OTHER MATTER accounting estimates made by the applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
We have reported separately on the Parent directors: and Those standards require us to comply Company financial statements of Grainger the overall presentation of the with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical plc for the year ended 30 September 2014 financial statements.
and on the information in the directors This report, including the opinions, We primarily focus our work in these areas Remuneration Report that is described as has been prepared for and only for by assessing the directors judgements having been audited.
the Companys members as a body in against available evidence, forming our accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 David A Snell Senior Statutory Auditor own judgements, and evaluating the of the Companies Act 2006 and for no for and on behalf of  LLP disclosures in the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors other purpose.
We do not, in giving these We test and examine information, London opinions, accept or assume responsibility for using sampling and other auditing 20 November 2014 any other purpose or to any other person to techniques, to the extent we consider whom this report is shown or into whose necessary to provide a reasonable basis for hands it may come save where expressly us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
