158 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financials NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS The future aggregate minimum lease payments payable by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Operating lease payments due: Not later than one year 1.3 1.3 Later than one year and not later than five years 3.3 2.3 Later than five years 1.7 0.4 6.3 4.0 The Group expects to receive nil under non-cancellable sub-leases 2013: nil.
Operating lease payments represent the lease payments made in the year relating to renting of office space used by the Group, car leases under contract hire arrangements and operating lease payments relating to office equipment such as photocopiers.
Leases relating to office space used by the Group have initial terms of varying lengths, between one and ten years.
Rent reviews generally take place every five years.
Contract hire car leases generally have a three-year term.
There are no other significant operating lease arrangements requiring disclosure under IAS 17.
38 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The properties in certain subsidiary companies forming a guarantee Group provide the security for the Groups core debt facility.
Barclays Bank plc has provided guarantees under performance bonds relating to the Groups UK Development division.
As at 30 September 2014, total guarantees amounted to 2.9m 2013: 1.8m.
In addition, the Group has an obligation, under the sale and purchase agreement for the land at West Waterlooville, to pay further consideration should the site value exceed certain pre-agreed amounts.
It is not possible to determine the amount or timing of any such future payments due to the long-term nature of the sites development and the associated uncertainties.
However, it is unlikely that any future payments will fall due until at least 2015 and any payments made will be spread over a number of years.
As explained in more detail in note 21, there is uncertainty relating to the future of the site of Curzon Park in which the Group has a 50% joint venture interest.
Should the value of the site, together with any compensation received, be insufficient to repay the bank loan in the joint venture entity and recover the carrying value of our investment, the Group may incur further charges in excess of those provided in these financial statements, in respect of obligations to the joint venture and the bank.
