Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Vision, Mission and Values Strategic Report Our Vision, Mission and Values BBA Aviation is dedicated to being the worlds leading provider of aviation support and aftermarket services with the overarching objective to deliver exceptional, long-term sustainable value Our Vision, Mission and Values 09 for all our stakeholders.
Our Vision and Mission Business Model 10 All Group businesses are individually and collectively focused on: Consistently exceeding customer expectations: Operating Model 11 Valuing and empowering our people in a zero incident, safe environment: Encouraging innovation: Our Markets 12 Working together for greater gain: Always behaving with integrity and respect.
Our Strategy 14 See more on how Our Values Our Goals 15 Corporate Social Responsibility is Our employees are also unified around a common set of values that are a vital and integral embedded in our Vision, partofthe way we do business.
Every day we put our values into action with pride.
Mission and Values Key Performance Indicators 16 pages 5559 Our Risks 18 Performance Integrity We earn the trust and respect of We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness and by improvement and reliability.
Safety We are dedicated to safety Responsibility We are committed to managing andsecurity, the elimination of hazards and protecting people, our impact on, and contributing positively to society and the property and our environment.
People Service We are committed to investing inand empowering our people We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their through training and education and to providing them with expectations.
Our Vision, Mission and Values align and link all BBA Aviation companies and businesses together as one team.
They describe our operating system, what each of us focuses on, cares about and theway we behave.
They are adopted across the Group and are used by our teams on a daily basis to help us reach our goals.
