Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Risks Our Risks Our Risks The list below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Like all businesses, BBA Aviation is affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, both internal Risk Potential Impact Mitigation and external.
We have a robust process to identify, General economic Reduction in revenues and profits as a result Active monitoring of lead economic indicators.
downturn ofreduced B&GA and commercial flying and Strong financial controls to monitor financial manage and mitigate the impact of these risks militaryexpenditure.
performance and provide a basis for corrective action when required.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to meet demand.
See more on Mixture of early and later cycle businesses.
We have a Group-wide risk management process in place to ensure we identify our Audit & RiskCommittee and manage risk effectively.
The management of risk is an important item on Catastrophic global Reduction in revenues and profits as a result Strong financial controls to monitor financial pages 7073 our corporate governance agenda, and risk mitigation strategy and risk appetite event terrorism, weather ofreduced B&GA and commercial flying.
performance and provide a basis for corrective are matters that areoverseen by our Board, with the support of the Audit and with a material impact action when required.
Risk Committee in managing the processes that underpin risk assessment on global air travel Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed and internal control.
Legislative changes Reduction in revenues and profits as a result Active participation in all relevant industry bodies.
Structure and organisation of risk identification and control environment causing material increase ofreduction in B&GA flying hours.
Low fixed costs allow cost base to be flexed to to cost of B&GA flight meet demand.
relative to alternatives Board Audit & Risk Committee Ability to attract and retain Loss of key personnel.
Remuneration structure designed to reward superior Responsible for system of internal control: Reports on effectiveness of high-quality and capable Lack of internal successors to key management roles.
reviews reports from Audit and ExecutiveCommittees: the control environment.
people Short to medium-term disruption to the business.
Succession planning process embedded with review at challenges methodology and sets policy.
Executive Management Committee and Board level annually.
Potential liabilities from Reputational impact with associated deterioration Standard operating procedures with routine root cause defects in services and incustomer relationships.
Executive Committee products Loss of earnings from liability claims.
Delegated with Board authority to review risks and take appropriate action.
Intentional or inadvertent Reputational impact.
Clear corporate policies and education in major risk areas.
non-compliance with Exposure to potential litigation or criminal Semi-annual compliance certification by all senior legislation proceedings.
Robust internal control environment and regular review by internal and external audit.
Audit function Group Finance Business Divisions reviews and reports Director reports Environmental exposures Loss of earnings from cost to remediate or Strong procedural controls and physical containment Meet quarterly for business reviews on the systems of twice a year on risk potentiallitigation.
when working with fuel or other hazardous chemicals.
Potential for loss of licence to operate.
Active management of known environmental matters Greater than expected liabilities associated tominimise costs to resolve.
Company Risk Map Risk Register Divisional Risk Maps Management teams in business units review risks through self-assessment methodology and develop risk registers, which together with risk maps that are developed from the risk registers, are submitted to the Audit & Risk Committee on a bi-annual basis.
