Strategic Report Strategic Report Revenue 2014 2013 Inc dec Aftermarket Services Aftermarket Services Engine Repair & Overhaul $m $m % North America 468.7 492.4 9 % Europe & ROW 114.7 105.4 5% Total 583.4 597.8 2 % Performance In ERO, revenue was $583.4 million 2013:$597.8 million, representing a 3% organic revenue Our Engine Repair & Overhaul ERO businesses are decline.
This revenue reduction was primarily driven by lower volumes, particularly on older mid-cabin engines, with the recovery in B&GA movements taking longer than anticipated leading independent OEM authorised engine repair tohave a meaningful benefit.
Associated with these softer market conditions, ERO also experienced increased pricing pressure on two of EROs key engine platforms: Tay and TFE731.
service providers to the B&GA market.
In 2014 ERO began a significant footprint rationalisation process.
As part of this process, Together, our ERO businesses have strong and established EROcompleted a new repair and overhaul facility atDallas Love Field Airport, Texas, to support the large PT6A engine market, and relocated some of its other engine programmes relationships with major engine OEMs and are authorised to to its existing Heritage Park facility in Dallas.
In October, ERO broke ground for the workon 80% of engines powering the B&GA fleet and over development of the new engine repair and test facility at Dallas Fort Worth International 65%of engines powering the rotorcraft fleet.
The facility will expand EROs test capabilities for larger thrustengines, as well as establish a rotorcraft centre of excellence.
While good progress has been made on the footprint rationalisation programme, which delivered a net $4 million in 2014 of the Key Facts anticipated $10million of annualised savings, weaker than anticipated market conditions Authorisations supporting Authorisations supporting over Strong customer relationships mean there is limited further benefit now expected in 2015.
80%of the engines powering 65%of engines powering the global network of more than theB&GA fleet rotorcraft fleet 8,000 customers During the year ERO was awarded several strategically important authorisations for rotorcraft engine maintenance, repair and overhaul.
In February, Rolls-Royce appointed ERO as authorised maintenance, repair and overhaul centres for the RR300 engine, in both Europe 80% 65% 8,000 and North America.
In April, ERO was awarded a North American designated overhaul facility appointment for the Pratt & Whitney Canada PW200 and PW210 engines and the Middle East appointment for the same engines, as well as the PT6C and PT6T.
To support these new Pratt& Whitney Canada authorisations in the Middle East, ERO has established a repair and overhaul facility in Abu Dhabi.
ERO now has authorisations to support over 65% of the More than 100 field service Over 2,500 turbine engines 19 locations worldwide, rotorcraft fleet in service and is establishing itself as a global market leader in the rapidly personnel globally processed distributed to support customerrequirements growing rotorcraft market.
The benefits of these investments are expected to be seen in 2016, given the anticipated profile of the volume ramp-up.
100 2,500 19 Towards the end of 2014 EROs Dallas Airmotive business reached a settlement with the US Department of Justice in an investigation relating to payments in South America by agents and employees of the business from 2008 to 2012.
The Company took an exceptional chargeof $16.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 related to this matter.
Ethical and legal compliance are core values of BBA Aviation and we sincerely regret that our high standards ofconduct were breached.
We continually look for ways to strengthen our compliance and control programmes to ensure we uphold these standards, which are fundamental to the way we operate.
42 43 Right Next page The new facility at Dallas The new facility at Love Field offers the Dallas Love Field has ability for PT6A engines been redesigned to to be removed from optimise processes aircraft on-site.
and workflow to deliver faster turnaround times on repairs and overhauls.
Below A PT6A engine is reassembled, inspected and tested before it is returned to service.
Engine Repair & Overhaul has transformed a former ERO regional turbine centre at Dallas Love Field Airport, Texas, into a facility dedicated to the repair and overhaul of PT6A engines.
This new facility centralises EROs extensive PT6 expertise, having supported the engine type for over 50 years.
Left Engines are disassembled, cleaned and inspected before a comprehensive repair and overhaul process.
