Consolidated financial statements Independent audit report Independent audit report Independent auditors report to the members of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc for the period from incorporation on 23 December 2013 to 31 December 2014, which comprise the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of financial position, the statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement and the Group accounting policies and related notes.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK & Ireland.
In our opinion: The Group financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risks of material mis-statement detailed in this section are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material mis-statement that had the greatest effect on our Group audit were as follows: The valuation of investment properties, land and buildings and loans secured by real estate 1,489 million.
Refer to the Audit Committee report and Notes 14, 15 and 16 to the financial statements.
The risk The valuation of the Groups investment properties and loans secured by real estate involves significant management judgements using the advice of the external valuers, particularly those relating to current market conditions.
74 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Consolidated financial statements Independent audit report Our response Among other procedures: We assessed the competence, independence and objectivity of the external valuers We met with CBRE and Duff & Phelps to understand the techniques used, and challenge the valuation process, the performance of the portfolio, and the significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including future lease income and yields We included Chartered Surveyors on our team who considered the external valuers qualifications and met with the external valuers to assess and challenge the valuation approach and assumptions We considered the yield assumptions used by the external valuers in performing their valuations to assess their reasonableness in comparison to relevant market evidence, benchmarking the yields against specific property sales, comparables and other external data.
We performed substantive analytical procedures by reference to external market data to evaluate the appropriateness of the valuations adopted by the Group, and investigated further the valuations of those properties that were outside of our expectations We conducted site visits on major properties to corroborate certain details of the external valuation reports We evaluated whether sufficient disclosures were provided in relation to risks inherent in the asset valuations The acquisition of investment properties, land and buildings and loans secured by real estate.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report and Notes 14, 15 and 16 to the financial statements.
The risk The purchase agreements for investment property, land and buildings and loan acquisitions may have complexities such as embedded derivatives or contingent consideration, which require judgement from management in the application of relevant accounting standards.
Our response Among other procedures: We inspected the purchase agreements for property and loan acquisitions to identify any complexities included therein We challenged managements judgements in respect of the complexities identified by assessing each transaction against the recognition, measurement and classification criteria in accordance with the applicable IFRS and by evaluating managements judgement against observable market data when relevant We tested the accuracy and completeness of the disclosure of the transactions in the financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 19 million.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of total asset value, of which it represents approximately 1%.
We consider this to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
In addition, we applied materiality of 6 million to other account balances not related to investment properties and loans secured on real estate, for which we believe a mis-statement of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence a members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Consolidated financial statements Independent audit report We report to the audit committee all corrected and uncorrected mis-statements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 950,000, in respect of investment property and loans secured by real estate, as well as those with a value in excess of 300,000 for other accounts balances.
We also agreed to report other audit mis-statements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The structure of the Groups finance function is such that transactions and balances are accounted for by a central Group finance team.
We performed audit procedures, including those in relation to the risks set out above, on those transactions and balances accounted for at Group level.
Our audits covered 100% of total Group revenue, 100% of Group profit before taxation and 100% of Group total assets.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK & Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material mis-statement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: We have identified any inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: or The report from the Audit Committee does not appropriately disclose those matters that we communicated to the audit committee The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require us to review: The Directors statement of responsibilities, set out on page 72, in relation to going concern The parts of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Certain elements of disclosures in the remuneration report to shareholders by the Board of Directors 5.
Our conclusions on matters on which we are required to report by the Companies Jersey Law 1991 are set out below.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: or Returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Basis of our report, responsibilities and restrictions on use As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
76 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Consolidated financial statements Independent audit report An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material mis-statements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
While an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material mis-statements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather, the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expense as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, to subjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Michael Gibbons for and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm 1 Stokes Place St Stephens Green Dublin 2 Ireland 13 March 2015 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
