Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Additional information Shareholder information Shareholder information Group website Change of address You can access our website at Communications with shareholders are mailed to the www.
eu to find the current share price, addresses held on the share register.
In the event of read the latest news in the investors section and read any change of address or other amendment, please the Annual Report and Accounts.
notify the Companys registrar under the signature of the registered holder.
Registrars Administrative enquiries about the holding of Shareholders may also register and manage their Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc shares shares through Computershares shareholder portal should be directed to: www.
Computershare Investor Services Jersey Investment Manager Queensway House The Company is advised by KW Investment Hilgrove Street Management Ltd, which is incorporated as a St Helier JE1 1ES company limited by shares in Jersey and is whollyJERSEY owned and controlled indirectly by Kennedy Wilson.
Channel Islands The Investment Manager is authorised and regulated Tel: 44 0 870 707 4040 by the Jersey Financial Services Commision under the Financial Services Jersey Law 1998, as A textphone facility for shareholders with hearing amended, as an investment manager.
difficulties is available by telephoning 0870 702 0005.
Annual General Meeting Dividends The Annual General Meeting AGM of Kennedy Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc will be held at directly into a bank account rather than by cheque 10.00 a. m. on 29 April 2015 at The May Fair Hotel, to their registered address can complete a mandate Private Suite 3, Stratton Street, London W1J 8LT.
To set up a dividend mandate, or change your existing mandated details, please contact the Companys registrar, Computershare on the number above.
Shareholder profile The table sets out an analysis of the shareholder profile of the Company at 13 March 2015: Shares by size of holdings No.
