Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Additional Information Investment policy Investment policy The Company aims to acquire, through the services of identified above within the Companys portfolio to the the Investment Manager, real estate and real estate benefit of shareholders and ensuring that the funds loans in Europe, initially in the UK, Ireland and Spain, available to the Company for investment are invested in and thereafter in these jurisdictions as well as other such real estate assets.
European countries on an opportunistic basis, with the intention of creating value for shareholders.
Whilst the majority of the Companys assets are expected to be wholly-owned, the Company will retain The Company will seek to invest in a diversified the ability to pursue its investments through a variety portfolio of commercial real estate including office, of investment structures, including joint ventures, retail, industrial, warehouse and distribution, leisure and acquisitions of controlling interests or acquisitions of recreational assets, and residential real estate including minority interests, if considered suitable.
multi-family, single-family and multi-tenanted assets.
The Company may also consider investing in mixed use Asset diversification real estate.
No single investment, or aggregate investments secured on a single property, will exceed 25% The Company will also invest in real estate loans.
The of the Companys most recently published NAV, Company may also invest in a mixed portfolio of real calculated at the time of investment, excluding the estate and or real estate loans that may include other Companys interests in the intermediate holding non-real estate related assets as part of the portfolio, undertakings in the Group.
provided that following the completion of the acquisition of any such non-real estate related assets, the The aggregate value of real estate loans originated Investment Manager will use its reasonable endeavours by the Company excluding any loans made to Group entities and loans with equity characteristics to dispose of such non-real estate related assets on shall not exceed 10% of the Companys most commercially acceptable terms as soon as reasonably recently published NAV, calculated at the time of practicable.
origination of any such loan.
In addition, the Company may originate real estate loans The Company may consider a limited number of which are either floating or fixed rate and may also property development opportunities, including land securitise pools of real estate loans.
The Company may site acquisitions, as well as property redevelopment also invest in securities traded on a public exchange and opportunities.
At any point in time, the aggregate in other public or private investment funds, in each case development and redevelopment costs incurred focussed on the real estate sector.
in respect of assets under development and or redevelopment at that time will not exceed 15% The Company will invest its funds in these asset classes of the Companys most recently published NAV.
in the real estate sector where it sees an opportunity For the avoidance of doubt, renovation, restoration, to create value for shareholders.
The Company intends fit-outs, internal reconfigurations, maintenance that its portfolio will comprise a mix of real estate and and engineering works and general up-keep of any real estate loans, appropriately diversified by geography, existing and new investments by the Company will real estate sector type, asset class, tenant exposure, be classified as refurbishment activities undertaken tenure and location.
The Investment Manager has been by the Company and do not fall within the ambit of authorised by The Board to exercise its discretion in such development and redevelopment limits.
managing and diversifying the real estate asset classes Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 Additional information Investment policy The Company will invest in real estate and real estate of borrowing.
The Board may modify the Companys loans, including mixed portfolios of real estate and gearing policy from time-to-time taking into account or real estate loans that may include other non-real then prevailing economic and market conditions, fair estate related assets, as set out above.
Where the value of the Groups assets, acquisition and active Company invests in a mixed portfolio of real estate management opportunities or other factors the and or real estate loans that includes other nonBoard deems appropriate.
However, no modification real estate related assets as part of the portfolio, of the Companys gearing policy to allow the LTV the value of the non-real estate related assets in ratio to exceed 65% shall occur without prior the portfolio being acquired, in combination with shareholder approval.
any other non-real estate related assets being held by the Company at the time of the applicable Hedging investment as a result of similar acquisitions, shall The Company will not enter into derivative transactions not exceed 15% of the Companys most recently for purely speculative purposes.
However, the Companys investments will typically be made in published NAV, calculated at the time of investment.
the currency of the country where the underlying The Investment Manager will use its reasonable real estate assets are located.
In the case of Ireland endeavours to dispose of such non-real estate and Spain, this will largely be euros.
The Company related assets on commercially acceptable terms as may implement measures designed to protect the soon as reasonably practicable.
investments against material movements in the exchange rate between sterling, being the Companys Gearing reporting currency, and euros, being the currency in The Company intends to use gearing with a view to which such investments are made.
The analysis as enhancing equity returns whilst maintaining prudent to whether such measures should be implemented levels of interest cover and protecting shareholders will take into account periodic interest, principal funds.
The Investment Manager intends to distributions or dividends, as well as the expected date determine the appropriate level of borrowings on a of realisation of the investment.
The Company may deal specific basis and limit the lenders recourse bear a level of currency risk that could otherwise be only to assets of the entity making the acquisition in hedged where it considers that bearing such risk is question, thereby ring-fencing risk.
The Company will only enter into hedging Manager does not intend to impose a particular contracts, such as currency swap agreements, futures LTV ratio limit for each investment, but expects contracts, options and forward currency exchange and that on an overall basis, the Groups LTV ratio will other derivative contracts, when they are available in not exceed 50% at the time of borrowing i. e. that a timely manner and on terms acceptable to it.
The the Groups aggregate borrowings will not exceed Company reserves the right to terminate any hedging 50% of the aggregate market value of the Groups arrangement in its absolute discretion.
total assets including cash and in any event, the Groups LTV ratio will not exceed 65% at the time 126 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Additional information Investment policy FCA investment restrictions The Company currently complies with the investment restrictions set out below and will continue to do so for so long as they remain requirements of the FCA: Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will conduct any trading activity which is significant in the context of the Group as a whole but this rule does not prevent the businesses forming part of the investment portfolio from conducting trading activities themselves The Company will avoid cross-financing between businesses forming part of its investment portfolio The Company will avoid the operation of common treasury functions as between the Company and investee companies for this purpose investee companies does not include intermediate holding companies in the Group Not more than 10%, in aggregate, of the value of the total assets of the Company at Admission will be invested in other UK-listed closed-ended investment funds, except for those which themselves have published investment policies to invest not more than 15% of their total assets in other UK-listed closed-ended investment funds The Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets in a way that is consistent with its object of spreading investment risk and in accordance with the published investment policy Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127
