108 Other Information Glossary Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, atacost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average Selling Price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Brownfield Sites Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Cancellation Rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in accordance with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Code for Sustainable Homes A national standard for sustainable design and construction of new homes.
The Code measures the whole home as a complete package, assessing its sustainability against nine categories: energy CO, water, materials, surface water run-off, 2 waste, pollution, health and well-being, management and ecology.
Level 3 applies to newly-constructed affordable housing subject to Homes and Communities Agency HCA grant policy and all homes built on HCA land from 1 April 2008.
Level 3 differs from Level 4 primarily in respect of the energy CO levels.
Level 3 seeks a 25% reduction in CO emissions compared 2 2 with the 2006 Building Regulations requirements, whereas Level 4 requires a 44% reduction.
Considerate Constructors Scheme A national initiative by the construction industry, where companies and sites voluntarily register and agree to be monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, with a view to promoting best practice beyond statutory requirements.
CSCS Cards The CSCS card denotes achievement of a Construction Skills Certificate, demonstrating occupational competence in the construction industry under the Construction Skills Certificate Scheme.
is an industry body, representing the home building industry in England and Wales.
It representsmember interests on a national and regional level to create the best possible environment in which to deliver newhomes.
Help to Buy The Help to Buy equity loan scheme is a government scheme which provides equity loans to both first-time buyers and homemovers on newly constructed homes worth up to 600,000.
Buyers have to contribute at least 5% of the property priceas a deposit, and obtain a mortgage of up to 75% and the government provides a loan for up to 20% of the price.
The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme helps people to buy a home with a 5% deposit to obtain a 95% mortgage.
The government gives a guarantee to the lender of up to 15% of the value of the property.
Land Bank Our land bank is comprised of three components: i land with an implementable detailed planning permission DPP : ii medium-term pipeline land, pending an implementable DPP: iii strategic long-term land which we have an interest in, whichmay often have the benefit of a positive planning status in approved or emerging local plans.
Mortgage Market Review MMR The MMR was a comprehensive review of the mortgage market which set out the case for reforming the mortgage market toensure it is sustainable and works better for consumers.
National Planning Policy Framework NPPF The National Planning Policy Framework sets out the governments planning policies for England and how these are expected to be applied.
It provides a framework within which local people and their accountable councils can produce their own distinctive local and neighbourhood plans, which reflect the needs and priorities of their communities.
NHBC is the leading warranty, insurance provider and body responsible for setting standardsof construction for UK housebuilding for new and newly converted homes.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 109 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Pipeline Plots which are either owned or contracted, often conditionally, pending an implementable detailed planning permission.
Planning Permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or, for an existing building, be redeveloped or altered.
Permission is either outline when detailed plans are still to be approved, ordetailed when detailed plans have been approved.
Photovoltaic Panels Solar panel electricity systems, also known as solar photovoltaics PV, capture the suns energy using photovoltaic cells.
These cells dont need direct sunlight to work they can still generate some electricity on a cloudy day.
The cells convert thesunlight into electricity, which can be used to run household appliances and lighting.
PV cells are made from layers of semi-conducting material, usually silicon.
When light shines on the cell it creates an electric field across the layers.
The strongerthe sunshine, the more electricity is produced.
Registered Providers Government funded organisations that provide affordable housing.
These can be either non-profit making, such as housing associations, trusts and co-operatives, or profit making, such as housebuilders.
Working alongside local authorities, they provide homes for people meeting the affordable homes criteria.
As well as developing land and building homes, Registered Providers also perform a landlord function by maintaining properties and collecting rent.
RIDDOR RIDDOR refers to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
The regulations require anemployer to report any absence by an employee of seven days or more caused by an accident at work.
Safemark Certificate NHBCs Health & Safety Competence Assessment Scheme.
Section 106 Planning Agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Site phase A site is a concise area of land on which homes are being constructed.
Larger sites may be divided into a number of phases which are developed at different times.
Social Housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and not-for-profit organisations such as housing associations.
Sustainability Environmental sustainability has been defined as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
