100 Other Information Shareholder Information ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Remuneration Two separate resolutions on directors remuneration are now required under company law.
These are briefly explained below.
Resolution 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy This is a new ordinary resolution which is required under section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 47 to 53.
If the policy is approved, this is a binding vote and the policy will be in place for three years, commencing at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Company can only make payments to its directors in accordance with the approved policy unless a separate shareholder approval is obtained for the payment.
Resolution 3 To approve the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration This is an ordinary resolution, which is advisory only and seeks shareholder approval to the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy which is subject to a separate and binding shareholder vote asexplained above.
Special Business Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 14 Approval of the Rules of the 2014 Employee Share Option Scheme The Company considers share-based incentives as a vital tool in helping to align the interests of directors and employees with shareholders.
Accordingly, share incentives with benefits linked to stretching performance targets have always formed asignificant proportion of the total remuneration for senior employees including executive directors.
The existing Bellway p. l. c. 2005 Employee Share Option Scheme was approved by shareholders in January 2005 and is due to expire in January 2015.
Accordingly, Resolution 14, which is an ordinary resolution, seeks to adopt the new Scheme under substantively the same terms as the Existing Scheme, including amendments to reflect subsequent developments andchangesin tax legislation.
The Scheme will be operated by the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
A summary of the Scheme is set out below and a copy of the draft rules of the Scheme may be inspected at the registered office of the Company and at Bond Dickinson LLP, 4 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AU during usual business hours onweekdays public holidays excepted until the date of the meeting and also at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during, the meeting.
There is no present intention to grant options under this Scheme to executive directors.
Resolution 15 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,091,453, which is equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 13 October2014 and also gives the directors authority to allot, by way of rights issue only, ordinary shares up to an aggregatenominal value of 10,182,907 which is equivalent to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, as at 13 October 2014, such authority, if granted, to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
As at 13 October 2014, the Company held noshares astreasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authorityto satisfy the exercise of awards under theCompanys share schemes.
The directors wish to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments canbe made if required and if suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Resolution 16 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This is a special resolution and is the customary annual request, in substitution for the authority granted to the directors by shareholders on 13 December 2013 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, that shareholders empower the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them pro-rata to existing shareholders, as would otherwise be required by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 a in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 763,718 beingapproximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 13 October 2014.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 101 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Resolution 17 Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was used during the year to redeem all of the 20 million preference shares at par on their normal redemption date, following which the shares were cancelled.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that itshould be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled inwhich case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
At 13 October 2014 there were options outstanding over 1,022,482 ordinary shares, representing 0.84% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority given by this resolution were to be fully used, these would represent 0.93% oftheCompanys issued ordinary share capital.
There are no warrants outstanding.
Details of any substantial shareholders holdingmore than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital are included in the Notifiable Shareholders interests table on page 62.
Resolution 18 Length of notice of meeting Shareholder approval for general meetings of the Company, other than AGMs to be held on 14 days notice, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
There is no current intention to use this authority and the Company will only consider using this authority where it is considered that this would be for the benefit of shareholders asawhole.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next AGM.
Recommendation The directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and itsshareholders as a whole, accordingly they recommend voting in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect oftheir own beneficial shareholdings.
SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE BELLWAY P. L. C. 2014 EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEME THE SCHEME 1.
General The Scheme provides for the grant of options over ordinary shares in the Company on a discretionary basis to eligible employees and directors, and is intended to replace the Bellway p. l. c. 2005 Employee Share Option Scheme the Existing Scheme under which no further options can be granted after 14 January 2015.
The Scheme is intended to satisfy the requirements of Parts 2 to 6 of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and thus entitle participants to benefit from certain tax advantages that would otherwise not be available when options are exercised.
The maximum value of ordinary shares over which any participant can have outstanding options is limited to 30,000 see further below under the heading, Scheme limits.
Eligibility All employees and full-time directors of the Company or its participating subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Scheme.
Actual participation will take place at the discretion of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee.
Grant of options Options may be granted under the Scheme at any time during the period of 42 days, commencing on the date of announcement of the Companys annual or half-yearly results for any year.
In the case of an employee or director first becoming eligible to participate in the Scheme, options may be granted in the period of 28 days following that date, and, exceptionally, at the absolute discretion of the Committee, during any other 42-day period.
Options may not be granted under the Scheme more than ten years after the date of approval of the Schemes.
Options may not be transferred.
Performance targets The Committee shall, when options are granted, be entitled to specify objective conditions performance targets thatarerequired to be met in order that the options may be exercised.
Exercise, lapse and exchange of options Options will, provided that any performance targets specified at the time of their grant have been met, normally be exercisable during the period commencing three years after, and ending ten years after, their grant.
Options will normally lapse on termination of a participants employment.
However, exercise will be permitted for a limited period irrespective of the period for which the options have been held following the termination of a participants employment where this takes place for good leaver reasons.
Exercise will also be permitted following a takeover of, or other similar corporate eventaffecting, the Company.
There are also provisions for the exchange of options in specified circumstances.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 Other Information Shareholder Information continued 6.
Exercise price The price at which participants may acquire ordinary shares on exercise of options will be not less than their middle market price quoted on the London Stock Exchange at the close of dealings on the day immediately preceding the date oftheir grant or the average of such prices over a period of five successive Dealing Days ending on that immediately preceding Dealing Day.
Scheme limits No option may be granted to a participant if the aggregate price at which he or she can acquire the ordinary shares the subject of that option and any other option granted to him or her under the Scheme and any other equivalent company share option plan established by the Company or any associated company including the Existing Scheme, would exceed 30,000.
Any options which have already been exercised, or have lapsed or been surrendered, are ignored in calculating this limit.
Options may not be granted if this would cause the total number of ordinary shares which can be issued by the Company to satisfy the exercise of those options to exceed 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company on the dateof intended grant.
This limit takes account of ordinary shares that have been or may be issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous ten years under any discretionary employee share scheme including the Scheme and the Existing Scheme established by the Company, and is increased to 10% to take account of ordinary shares issued pursuant to rights granted within the previous ten years under all employee share schemes established by the Company.
Adjustments The number of shares comprised within an option and or its exercise price may be adjusted if any capitalisation issue orrights issue, or any consolidation, sub-division or reduction of the Companys share capital, takes place.
Amendments The rules of the Scheme may be amended by the Committee.
If any proposed amendment would be to the advantage of participants generally and, in particular, if the proposed amendment relates to the eligibility of participants under the Scheme, limitations on the number of ordinary shares over which options may be granted or adjustments to options, the prior approval of shareholders will be required unless the amendment is minor or is made either to obtain or maintain favourable tax treatment or to comply with, or take account of, any existing or proposed legislation.
General The Company will apply for admission to dealing on the London Stock Exchange for ordinary shares which are to be allotted and issued to a participant following the exercise of options.
Those ordinary shares will rank pari passu with all otherissued ordinary shares, except for any rights determined by reference to a date preceding the date on which the option is exercised.
Benefits provided under the Scheme are not pensionable.
TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE Where not provided in the Directors Report the following sets out the information required to be provided to shareholders incompliance with the Takeovers Directive.
Share capital The Companys total issued share capital as at 31 July 2014 consisted of 122,191,378 ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company can be found in note 19 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares in the Company are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In addition, in compliance with the FSA Listing Rules, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and their connected persons to deal in the Companys ordinaryshares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Companys Articles.
The directors are not aware ofanyagreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles and are summarised intheCorporate Governance Report on page 40.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the directors are seeking annualre-election by shareholders.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 103 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company asare not by law or by the Articles required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and atwhich a quorum is present.
Allotment of shares During the year 419,320 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes.
The directors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 100, and Resolutions 15 and 16 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 12 December 2014 on pages 105 and 106 seek to renew this authority.
Purchase of own shares The Company has not purchased any of its own ordinary shares during the year, but redeemed all of the 20,000,000 preference shares at their normal redemption date.
The directors have authority to purchase the Companys own shares withinlimits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 101, and Resolution 17 in theNotice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 12 December 2014 on page 106 seeks to renew this authority.
Significant agreements change of control provisions The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which may be terminable in the event of a change of control ofthe Company.
Agreements for compensation for loss of office following a change of control The service agreement between the Company and the Group Company Secretary contain provisions that entitle the individual to terminate the agreement following a takeover offer and receive an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, benefits and the average amount of the last two years annual bonus payment.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Annual Report posted to shareholders November Final ordinary dividend ex-dividend date 11 December 2014 Final ordinary dividend record date 12 December 2014 AGM 12 December 2014 Final ordinary dividend payment date 14 January 2015 ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS BY SIZE OF HOLDING AT 31 JULY 2014 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 2,000 1,918 68.65 1,198,293 0.98 2,001 10,000 446 15.96 1,920,620 1.57 10,001 50,000 193 6.91 4,872,338 3.99 50,001 and over 237 8.48 114,200,127 93.46 Total 2,794 100.00 122,191,378 100.00 DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT PLAN DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
The DRIP is provided by Capita Asset Services, a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
For more information please call 0871 664 0381 calls to this number cost 10p per minute plus network extras or if calling from overseas 44 20 8639 3402.
Lines are open from 9am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Alternatively you can e-mail shares@capita.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 Other Information Shareholder Information continued NON-STERLING BANK ACCOUNT If you live outside the UK, or have a non-sterling bank account, Capita can provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividend into your local currency and send you the funds by currency draft, or pay them straight into your overseas bank account.
You can register for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on your dividend options and following the on-screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
For further information e-mail ips@capita.
co. uk or call0871 664 0385 UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, or from overseas call 44 20 8639 3405.
Lines are openfrom 9 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE The Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, ortelephone 0871 664 0454 for telephone dealing.
Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
DISCOUNT TO SHAREHOLDERS The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 2,000 per 25,000, or pro-rata onpart thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and b you inform our sales representative on-site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
This discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
Underlying beneficial shareholders would be entitled to benefit from the arrangements by providing proof of ownership.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail investor.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH INFORMATION RIGHTS Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, or to the Company directly.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTING Further reporting on the Companys corporate responsibility activities is available to view on the Groups website atwww.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
