Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2014 continued 5.
Critical accounting estimates and management d Estimated impairment of assets judgements The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where experience, current market conditions and other factors including there are indicators of impairment.
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this if there are changes in circumstances on which the estimate method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit The estimates and management judgements that have a and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying the present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year from these estimates.
The estimates used in these financial are discussed below.
statements are contained in Note 15.2. a Pension benefits e Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential depends on a number of factors that are determined on an future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the assets acquired as part of business combinations.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
These assumptions impact the income statement over the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest the useful life of the intangible asset.
rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to f Provisions maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part Provisions made within these financial statements and further on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed details are contained in Note 25.1.
Additional claims could be in Note 10. made which might not be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as detailed in Note 29. b Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
g Fair value of options granted to employees Judgement is required in determining the provision for income The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the value of options granted to employees under the Groups various ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax schemes as detailed in the Remuneration report.
Information outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that on such assumptions is contained in Note 27.6.
The alteration were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income of these assumptions may impact charges to the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such statement over the vesting period of the award.
h Award of options and deferred shares to employees c Deferred taxes The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether the available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be long-term share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary policy is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, judgement regarding the future financial performance of the the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset to the income statement.
has been recognised, especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which losses can be utilised.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 18.
92 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
