Directors Responsibilities Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, page 40 confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors the Group: and have prepared the Company and group financial statements the Strategic Report set out on pages 2 to 27 includes a fair in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards review of the development and performance of the business IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law and the position of the Group, together with a description of the Directors must not approve the Financial statements unless the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss For the purposes of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these each of the Directors as at the date of the approval of the Annual Financial statements, the Directors are required to: Report and Accounts confirms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit them consistently: information of which the External Auditors is unaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have reasonable and prudent: taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European any relevant audit information and to establish that the Union have been followed, subject to any material departures External Auditors are is aware of that information.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate continue in business.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time On behalf of the Board the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Jeremy Helsby Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, Group Chief Executive as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Chris Lee assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Group Legal Director & Company Secretary reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Forward-looking statements Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity in good faith using information up until the date on which they of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom approved the Annual Report and Accounts.
Forward-looking governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements should be regarded with caution due to uncertainties statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
in economic trends and business risks.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, 18 March 2015 taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
70 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
