Shareholder information Professional advisers and service providers Key dates for 2015 Date Solicitors Annual General Meeting 13 May 2015 CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Mitre House Financial half year end 30 June 2015 160 Aldersgate Street Announcement of half year results 6 August 2015 London EC1A 4DD Website Registrars Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up Equiniti to date investor relations information, including the latest share Aspect House price, recent annual and half year reports, results presentations Spencer Road and financial news.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Shareholder enquiries For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
Auditor For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Services  LLP helpline on: 0871 384 2018 overseas holders need to ring 1 Embankment Place 44 0 121 415 7047.
Calls to Equinitis 0871 numbers are London WC2N 6RH charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Other network service providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to Joint Stockbrokers 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
For further UBS Investment Bank administrative queries in respect of your shareholding please 1 Finsbury Avenue access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk London EC2M 2PP Electronic communications Numis Securities Ltd If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications The London Stock electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly Exchange Building reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars 10 Paternoster Square website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Register for London EC4M 7LT e-communications under the Shareholder Services section.
Principal Bankers Half Year Report Barclays Bank PLC Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate 1 Churchill Place printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year London E14 5HP results statements are published on the Companys website.
We believe that this is of benefit to those shareholders who do not wish to be burdened with such paper documents, and to the Company, as it is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
128 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Warning about unsolicited investment contacts Share fraud includes scams where investors are contacted unexpectedly and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent or offered an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Shareholders who buy or sell their shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
Protect yourself if you are offered discounted shares, unsolicited investment advice, an inflated price for your shares or free company or research reports, you should take precautionary measures before handing over your money.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register to ensure that they are authorised.
Contact the firm using the details on the Financial Services Register.
If there are no details or you are told they are out of date, contact FCA Helpline on 0800111 6768 or fill out a share fraud reporting form which can be found on the FCA website.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid at www.
uk scams and remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should inform the FCA by calling its Helpline 0800 111 6768 or by calling Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward-looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, forecasts, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our Officers, Directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: Global economic business conditions: Monetary and interest rate policies: Foreign currency exchange rates: Equity and property prices: The impact of competition, inflation: Changes to regulations, taxes: Changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and Our success in managing the above factors.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Designed and produced by Gather www.
london The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Savills plc 33 Margaret Street London W1G 0JD T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 F: 44 0 20 7495 3773 Registered in England No.
