Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2014 1.
General information 2.3 Consolidation Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the The consolidated financial statements include those of the Group is a global real estate services Group.
The Group operates Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the through a network of offices in the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 27,826 staff worldwide.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the office is 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from These consolidated financial statements were approved for the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They issue by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2015. are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation to account for business combinations.
The consideration of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values These policies have been consistently applied to all the years of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred to the parent Company.
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets 2.1 Basis of preparation acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a These financial statements have been prepared in accordance business combination are measured initially at their fair values at with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by interest in the acquiree on an  basis, the European Union and with those parts of the Companies either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention as modified by Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance management to exercise judgement in the process of applying with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions settlement is accounted for within equity.
and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are 2.2 Use of non-GAAP measures eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated.
profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by provides additional useful information to shareholders on the the Group.
underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance analysis Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
These cost, less any provision for impairment.
terms are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by b Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, change of control or superior to, GAAP measures.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software : subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
profit related performance compensation subject to deferral and the opportunity cash cost of such compensation c Disposal of subsidiaries refer to Note 8 and Note 14.2 for further explanation : When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in items that are considered non-operational in nature including the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control restructuring costs, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or and investments and profits or losses arising on disposals of loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes subsidiaries and other investments: and of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an significant acquisition costs related to business combinations.
associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income 82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group transferred.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other the policies adopted by the Group.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
2.4 Segment reporting d Associates Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating associates are accounted for using the equity method of segments, has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or A business segment is a group of assets and operations decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of engaged in providing products or services that are subject to the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment risks and returns that are different from those of other business in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 17.1. products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant of segments operating in other economic environments.
influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
types of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates, the matrix approach of disclosing both the business The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or and geographical segments formats is used.
losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding that they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
When the allocated on a reasonable basis.
Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured 2.5 Foreign currency translation receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses a Functional and presentation currency unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or Items included in the financial statements of each of the made payments on behalf of the associate.
Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest presented in Sterling, which is also the Companys functional in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless and presentation currency.
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been b Transactions and balances changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional policies adopted by the Group.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at are recognised in the income statement.
year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income e Joint arrangements statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS as qualifying cash flow hedges.
11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint recognised in the income statement, except for available-for-sale ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive method.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter c Group entities to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds to the Groups presentational currency at foreign exchange rates its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net operations are translated at an average rate for the year where investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made dates of the transactions.
payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint operations are taken directly to the foreign exchange reserve.
ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the relevant amount in the foreign exchange reserve is transferred transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset to the income statement.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 83 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2014 continued 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria is probable that the future economic benefits associated with are met: the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be it is technically feasible to complete the software product so measured reliably.
that it will be available for use: management intends to complete the software product and Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a use or sell it: straight-line basis to write off the assets over their estimated there is an ability to use or sell the software product: useful lives as follows: it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits: adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete Freehold property 50 years the development and to use or sell the software product are Short leasehold property Over unexpired available: and less than 50 years term of lease the expenditure attributable to the software product during its Equipment and motor vehicles 310 years development can be reliably measured.
Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if accumulated amortisation and impairment.
appropriate, at each reporting date.
Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Customer business relationships 610 years 2.7 Goodwill Order back-log 5 years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a Investment and property management contracts 210 years subsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value Computer software 35 years of identifiable net assets acquired.
In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying Acquired investment management contracts relating to value of the investment.
open-ended funds have been attributed indefinite useful lives.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
2.9 Impairment of other non-financial assets Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment, Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate amortisation or depreciation and are tested annually for potential impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount impairment or whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
by which the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
The Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment costs of disposal.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Prior impairments of non-financial of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashassets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are at each reporting date.
expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 15. method, with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific risks associated with the asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 2.8 Intangible assets other than goodwill cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the and incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating acquisition and amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on unit to which the asset belongs.
acquisition is determined by third-party valuation where the acquisition is significant.
2.10 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups statement of financial position at fair value when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed in the following paragraphs.
84 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements 2.11 Available-for-sale investments 2.18 Share capital Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly changes in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in income.
When such investments are disposed or become equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the Employee Benefit Trust, are classified as 2.12 Trade receivables treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for 2.19 Taxation impairment.
Receivables are discounted where the time The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred value of money is material.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically amount of the provision is the difference between the assets evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, in the income statement within other operating expenses.
When on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets a trade receivable is uncollected, it is written off against the and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated allowance account for trade receivables.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not of amounts previously written off are credited against other recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: operating expenses in the income statement.
deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a 2.13 Cash and cash equivalents business combination that at the time of the transaction affects Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax held on call with banks, together with other short-term highly is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted liquid investments with original maturities of three months or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are or less and working capital overdrafts, which are subject to expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
included under borrowings in the statement of financial position.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent 2.14 Bank borrowings that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except for deferred 2.15 Trade payables income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there are presented as non-current liabilities.
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and 2.16 Derivative financial instruments and hedging liabilities relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a 2.20 Pension obligations hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate cases, changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay recognised immediately in the income statement.
further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the 2.17 Offsetting financial instruments current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention such as age, years of service and compensation.
to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 85 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2014 continued The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in the Group statement of financial position.
Investments in the respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated 2.23 Provisions annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at The defined benefit scheme charge consists of net interest the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle costs, past service costs and the impact of any settlements the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present or curtailments and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
value where the effect is material.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in a Professional indemnity claims other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised when it is probable that the Group will be required to settle The Group also operates a defined contribution Group claims against it as a result of a past event and the amount Personal Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income b Dilapidation provisions statement when they are payable.
The Group has no further The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and restore payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
properties to agreed specifications on leased properties prior to Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Provision for such cost is made where a legal obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
c Onerous leases A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the 2.21 Share-based payments obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions d Restructuring provision about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be there is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least satisfied.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest affected and the location, function and approximate number of based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the employees to be compensated for terminating their services and impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income when the plan has been communicated to those affected by it, statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
raising an expectation that the plan will be carried out.
All equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 2.24 Revenue value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed or receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value-added Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
tax and amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue within the Group.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is measured by the use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing a Residential transactional fees model.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
recognised on exchange of contracts.
However, on more It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if complex contracts, revenue will be recognised on the date any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment of completion.
On multi-unit developments, revenue is to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The cash proceeds recognised on a staged basis, based on each contract, received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are commencing when the underlying contracts are exchanged.
credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
b Commercial transactional fees Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion 2.22 Employee Benefit Trust or when unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant c Property consultancy awards to employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred commissions and fees recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or Share Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent percentage of completion.
Percentage of completion is principally transfer to employees on the vesting of the awards granted under measured by the proportion of actual costs incurred in relation to the the schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT are included in best estimate of total costs expected for completion of the contract.
86 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements d Property and facilities management 2.27 Adoption of standards, amendments and interpretations Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and to standards providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the The following standards and amendments to published services are provided using a straight-line basis over the term standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time of the contract.
for the financial year beginning 1 January 2014: e Investment management IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, including Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of amendments, mandatorily effective for accounting periods marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Under IFRS 10, subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity period to which the service has been provided, in accordance when the Group has power over an entity, is exposed to, or has with the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and recognised on the date of completion of a purchase or sale has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the transaction.
Distribution fees are recognised on the completion entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which of a signed subscription agreement and performance fees are control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated recognised as earned and when approved by the fund.
from the date that control ceases.
Application of IFRS 10 has had no financial effect on the Groups consolidated results.
f Work in progress Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, including amendments, stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes mandatorily effective for accounting periods beginning on an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified either as joint operations or joint g Interest income ventures, depending on the contractual rights and obligations Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint the effective interest method.
Joint arrangements must be accounted for using the equity method.
Application of IFRS 11 has had h Dividend income no financial effect on the Groups consolidated results.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, including amendments, mandatorily effective for accounting periods i Other income beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The standard sets out the Other income includes interest and dividend income on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, available-for-sale investments plus fair value gains and losses including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose on assets at fair value through profit or loss.
vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The adoption of this standard does not impact the Groups profit or net assets.
2.25 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, regarding has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are recoverable amount disclosures, effective for accounting classified as finance leases.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This amendment addresses the disclosure of information about the recoverable Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the less costs of disposal.
The adoption of this amendment does minimum lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets not impact the Groups profit or net assets.
are then depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Other standards, amendments and interpretations mandatorily effective for the first time for the financial year beginning The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases 1 January 2014 and not discussed above are not relevant are included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
or considered significant to the Group.
Leasing payments comprise capital and finance elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating on or after 1 January 2015, and have not been early adopted: leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, effective an incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread for accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2017 on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The standard establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts benefits expected to be received under it.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability 2.26 Dividends to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups service.
The standard replaces IAS18 Revenue and IAS11 financial statements in the period in which they are approved by Construction contracts and related interpretations.
application of IFRS may have a material impact on the disclosures made and amounts reported in the Groups Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
However, it is not Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 87
