Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2014 1.
General information 2.3 Consolidation Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the The consolidated financial statements include those of the Group is a global real estate services Group.
The Group operates Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the through a network of offices in the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 27,826 staff worldwide.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the office is 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from These consolidated financial statements were approved for the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They issue by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2015. are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation to account for business combinations.
The consideration of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values These policies have been consistently applied to all the years of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred to the parent Company.
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets 2.1 Basis of preparation acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a These financial statements have been prepared in accordance business combination are measured initially at their fair values at with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by interest in the acquiree on an  basis, the European Union and with those parts of the Companies either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention as modified by Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance management to exercise judgement in the process of applying with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions settlement is accounted for within equity.
and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are 2.2 Use of non-GAAP measures eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated.
profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by provides additional useful information to shareholders on the the Group.
underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance analysis Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
These cost, less any provision for impairment.
terms are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by b Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, change of control or superior to, GAAP measures.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software : subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
profit related performance compensation subject to deferral and the opportunity cash cost of such compensation c Disposal of subsidiaries refer to Note 8 and Note 14.2 for further explanation : When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in items that are considered non-operational in nature including the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control restructuring costs, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or and investments and profits or losses arising on disposals of loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes subsidiaries and other investments: and of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an significant acquisition costs related to business combinations.
associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income 82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014
