Additional Information GLOSSARY OF TERMS Active management the component of property revaluations delivered as a direct result of management actions and initiatives e. g. obtaining planning consent, achieving remediation milestones and improving lease terms.
EPRA the European Public Real Estate Association, a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice for financial reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV the Balance Sheet net assets, excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related derivatives together with deferred taxation on revaluations and capital allowances.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the diluted number of shares at the period end.
Estimated net rental income the passing cash rent less ground rent at the balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
Estimated rental value ERV the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Equivalent yield a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the timing of the income received.
Gearing the level of the Groups bank borrowing excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Gross Development Value GDV the sale value of property after construction.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
Initial yield the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
Interest net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Interest Cover Ratio the ratio of operating income to interest.
Land bank the bank of property comprising all of the land under the Groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or development agreements.
LIBOR the London Interbank Offered Rate is the average interest rate that leading banks in London charge when lending to other banks.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV the ratio of Group net debt to the Group property portfolio excluding joint ventures and associates.
Market value an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Net asset value NAV per share equity attributable to owners of the Company divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Net debt total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net rental income the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net initial yield a calculation by the Groups external valuers as the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the estimated net rental income expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed actual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
86 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Occupancy rates the ERV attributable to vacant units as a proportion of total ERV including the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Operating income the total of net rental income, other income and property profits.
Operating costs business running costs administrative expenses plus net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Persimmon joint venture a contractual arrangement with Persimmon to develop residential units on agreed sites within the St. Modwen land bank.
Pre-sold projects those projects where we are constructing buildings that have been specified by, and designed for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract.
On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
Profit before all tax profit before tax stated before the deduction of tax payable by joint ventures and associates.
Project MoDEL Project MoDEL originally saw six former London-based RAF sites freed up for disposal and development as the MoD relocated to an integrated site at RAF Northolt.
VINCI St. Modwen VSM was appointed by the MoD in 2006 to secure planning consent to redevelop the six sites of which VSM disposed of four, retaining RAF Mill Hill and RAF Uxbridge.
The latter was removed from the MoD arrangement and transferred to a separate joint venture with VINCI in 2012.
Property portfolio the property components of investment properties and inventories of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Property profits development profit before the deduction of net realisable value provisions plus gains on disposals of investments investment properties for the Group, including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Rental lease length the weighted average lease term to the first tenant break.
Rent roll the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at the reporting date.
RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
See-through gearing the ratio of see-through net debt to net assets.
See-through loan-to-value ratio the ratio of see-through net debt to the property portfolio.
See-through net debt net debt of the Group together with its share of the net debt of joint ventures and associates.
SIC Standards and Interpretations Committee.
Trading profit operating income less operating costs.
TSR total shareholder return represents the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Voids the ERV of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 87 Additional Information SHAREHOLDER NOTES 88 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 DISCLAIMER The Results Announcement contains certain forward looking statements which, by their nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company are made in good faith based on the information available at the time the statement is made: no representation or warranty is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
The Company does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reflect any changes in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Results Announcement should be construed as a profit forecast.
Photography used throughout the report has been taken by: Steve Townsend Craig Holmes Matthew Nichol Matthew Livey The paper used in this report is elemental chlorine free and is FSC accredited.
It is printed to ISO 14001 environmental procedures, using vegetable based inks.
The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certification is combined with a system of product labelling that allows consumers to readily identify timber based products from certifiedsources.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 ST. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC OFFICES SOUTH WEST AND SOUTH WALES Company No.
349201 Green Court LONDON AND SOUTH EAST Kings Weston Lane 180 Great Portland Street Avonmouth London Bristol HEAD OFFICE W1W 5QZ BS11 8AZ 020 7788 3700 0117 316 7780 Park Point 17 High Street Longbridge Birmingham B31 2UQ 0121 222 9400 MIDLANDS ST. MODWEN HOMES Park Point Park Point 17 High Street 17 High Street Longbridge Longbridge Birmingham Birmingham B31 2UQ B31 2UQ 0121 647 1000 0121 647 1000 NORTHERN HOME COUNTIES THE TRENTHAM ESTATE Stone Road IMEX Trentham 575-599 Maxted Road Stoke-on-Trent Hemel Hempstead ST4 8JG Hertfordshire 01782 645222 HP2 7DX 01727 732690 NORTH WEST YORKSHIRE AND NORTH EAST Chepstow House Ground Floor, Unit 2 Trident Business Park Landmark Court Daten Avenue Elland Road Risley Leeds Warrington LS11 8JT WA3 6BX 0113 272 7070 01925 825950 www.
