Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES th for the year ended 30 November 2014 BASIS OF PREPARATION The Groups Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the EU as they apply to the Group for the year th ended 30 November 2014, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme.
The Groups functional currency is pounds sterling and its principal IFRSs accounting policies are set out below.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Groups Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by contractual agreement.
A list of the principal entities controlled is given in note F to the Companys Financial Statements.
VSM Estates Holdings Ltd is 50% owned by St. Modwen Properties PLC.
However, under the funding agreement, the Group obtains the majority of the benefits of the entity and also retains the majority of the residual risks.
This entity is therefore consolidated in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and are presented separately within equity in the Group Balance Sheet.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES The Group recognises its interests in joint ventures, being those entities over which the Group has joint control, using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the Balance Sheet at cost plus postacquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received, less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the jointly controlled entities results after interest and tax.
Financial Statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the jointly controlled entities outside the Income Statement.
INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in abusiness combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement as negative goodwill.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of exchange.
The discount rate used is the entitys incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate that a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability.
Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement.
48 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 PROPERTIES Investment properties Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreciation and or for undetermined future use, are carried at fair value following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable.
To establish fair value, investment properties are independently valued on the basis of market value.
Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale commences, at which point the asset is transferred to inventories at current valuation.
Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the Income Statement.
Investment property disposals are recognised on completion.
Profits and losses arising are recognised through the Income Statement and the profit or loss on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
Inventories Inventories principally comprise properties held for sale, properties under construction and land under option.
All inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises land, direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
When inventory includes a transfer from investment properties, cost is recorded as the book value at the date of transfer.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Operating property, plant and equipment Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Leasehold operating properties over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years: and Plant, machinery and equipment over two to five years.
LEASES The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the Income Statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Freehold interests in leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the present value of guaranteed minimum ground rents included within the carrying value of the property and within long-term liabilities.
On payment of a guaranteed ground rent, virtually all of the cost is charged to the Income Statement as interest payable, and the balance reduces the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 49 Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued th for the year ended 30 November 2014 INCOME TAXES Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that will not be taxable or deductible.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements, using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date, with the following exceptions: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Income Statement.
PENSIONS The Group operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is st closed to new members and, from 1 September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods todetermine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised inthe Income Statement immediately if the benefits have vested.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the Income Statement as other finance income or expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the Balance Sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
When a pension asset net surplus arises and the directors consider it is controlled by the Company such that future economic benefits will be available to the Company, it is carried forward in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC14.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Income Statement in the year in which they become payable.
OWN SHARES Shares in St. Modwen Properties PLC held by the Group are classified in equity attributable to owners of the Company and are recognised at cost.
DIVIDENDS Dividends declared and approved after the Balance Sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the Balance Sheet date.
50 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of property Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale.
Where revenue is earned for development of property assets not owned, this is recognised when the Group has substantially fulfilled its obligations in respect of the transaction.
Construction contracts Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the Balance Sheet date.
The extent to which the contract is complete is determined by the total costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total anticipated costs of the entire contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included only to the extent they have been agreed with the purchaser.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
GOVERNMENT GRANTS Government grants relating to property are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group accounts for share-based payments as equity-settled.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant using an appropriate option pricing model.
For those share options that had previously been accounted for as cash-settled, the fair value at the date of transition became the fair value at the date of grant for the equity-settled sharebased options.
The fair value at the date of grant is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for any amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value or recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 51 Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued th for the year ended 30 November 2014 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on deferred payment terms are initially recorded by discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income or finance expense as appropriate.
The effective interest rate method is used to charge interest to the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The Group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the Income Statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received less direct issue costs.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are assessed on issue as to whether they should be classified as a financial liability, as equity or as a compound financial instrument with both debt and equity components.
This assessment is based on the terms of the bond and in accordance with IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
USE OF ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS To be able to prepare Financial Statements according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the Financial Statements.
These estimates are based on the Groups systems of internal control, historical experience and the advice of external experts including qualified professional valuers and actuaries together with various other assumptions that management and the Board of Directors believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgements that may significantly impact the Groups earnings and financial position are: Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Strategic Report and adoption of the going concern assumption is confirmed in the Directors Report.
Valuation of investment properties Management has used the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuation is performed according to RICS rules, using appropriate levels of professional judgement for the prevailing market conditions.
Net realisable value of inventories The Group has ongoing procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventories and identifying where this is in excess of net realisable value.
Managements assessment of any resulting provision requirement is, where applicable, supported by independent information supplied by the external valuers.
The estimates and judgements used th were based on information available at, and pertaining to, 30 November 2014.
Any subsequent adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional provisions being required.
Estimation of remediation and other costs to complete for both development and investment properties In making an assessment of these costs there is inherent uncertainty and the Group has developed systems of internal control to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Any changes to these estimates may impact the carrying values of investment properties and or inventories.
52 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Taxation As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions.
The outcome of tax treatments are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the Balance Sheet date.
Managements assessment of the level of provision required is, where applicable, supported by the Groups tax advisors.
If HMRC were to be successful in challenging tax treatments to a greater extent than has been provided at the Balance Sheet date then additional provisions may be required.
Calculation of the net present value of pension scheme liabilities In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, including discount and mortality rates and the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets.
The Group engages a qualified actuary to assist with determining the assumptions to be made and evaluating these liabilities.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS Standards and interpretations adopted The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement: This standard applies to IFRSs that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures and provides a single IFRS framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurement.
The adoption of this standard has had no material impact on the measurement of fair value for the Groups assets and liabilities and no retrospective changes were required as a result of adopting this standard.
Additional disclosures required by this standard are set out in note 16.
IAS19 revised 2011 Employee Benefits: No material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
Revised disclosures as required by this standard are set out in note 18.
In addition, minor amendments to existing standards were made under Improvements to IFRSs issued December 2010 and have been adopted during the year.
Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not been adopted in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IAS1 Disclosure Initiative IAS19 revised 2013 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions IAS27 revised 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS27 amended 2012 Investment Entities IAS28 revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS36 amended 2013 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets IAS39 amended 2013 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting IFRIC21 Levies IFRS9 Financial Instruments IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS10 amended 2012 Investment Entities IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations IFRS12 amended 2012 Investment Entities IFRS14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In addition, Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2012, December 2013 and September 2014 are the latest tranches of the Improvements to IFRSs project and these have a number of minor amendments to existing IAS and IFRSs which have not yet been adopted.
The directors are still assessing the impact that the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations will have on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
Adoption of the majority of these standards, amendments and interpretations are expected to have little or no impact on the reported results of the Group, although amended disclosures may be required.
IFRS15 may have an impact on revenue recognition and related disclosures.
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review of the revenue streams to which is expected to apply has been completed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 53
