235200 UKCPT pp58-pp61 21 04 2015 15:23 Page 58 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighth Annual General Meeting of b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at the aggregate nominal value of 32,485,312 being approximately offices of Northern Trust International Fund Administration 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter the Company including treasury shares, as at 13 April 2015.
Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 3QL on 16 June 2015 at 12.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to make market acquisitions within the meaning of Ordinary Resolutions section 316 I of the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as each shares either for retention as treasury shares for Ordinary Resolutions: future resale of transfer or cancellation, provided that: 1.
To approve and adopt the Report of the Directors and auditor i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December acquired shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys 2014. issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report other than the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year to ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid 31 December 2014. for a Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Policy.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of i an 4.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock 5.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days remuneration.
immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade 6.
To re-elect Mr Hill as a Director of the Company.
and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: 7.
To re-elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion 8.
To re-elect Mrs Platts as a Director of the Company.
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 9.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
2016 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed 10.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
prior to such time: and Special Resolutions v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such Special Resolutions: authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Shares pursuant to any such contract.
generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, 13.
That: ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, for cash a paragraph 3 of the memorandum of association of the including by way of a sale of ordinary shares held by the Company be deleted in its entirety and replaced as follows: Company as treasury shares, as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing rules 3.
The objects and powers of the Company are not made by the Financial Services Authority under Part VI of the restricted.
: Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that b paragraph 5 of the memorandum of association of the this power: Company be deleted in its entirety and replaced as follows: a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting 5.
The Company is a non-cellular company.
: of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the c paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the memorandum of association of expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, the Company be deleted in their entirety: and whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or d so as to incorporate all conforming changes to the new might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry Memorandum of Incorporation presented at the meeting and and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby identification.
had not expired: and 58 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp58-pp61 21 04 2015 15:23 Page 59 14.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as the Articles of Incorporation presented at the meeting and his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of complies with their respective disclosure obligations under identification be adopted as the Articles of Incorporation of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the By order of the Board existing Articles of Association.
Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Notes: Guernsey Limited Secretary 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting Trafalgar Court is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak Les Banques and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a St Peter Port member of the Company.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy Date: 20 April 2015 is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by him or her.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 a. m. on 12 June 2015.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have appointed a proxy and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain valid and you may not vote at the meeting unless you have provided a hard copy notice to revoke the proxy to Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day prior to the commencement of the meeting as set out above.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members at the close of business on the day which is two days before the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself.
Copies of the new Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of the Company showing all changes to the current memorandum and articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
As at 20 April 2015, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 1,299,412,465 voting rights.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 59 235200 UKCPT pp58-pp61 21 04 2015 15:23 Page 60 Appendix APPENDIX TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL Class Rights MEETING The section sets out the relevant provisions and provides a structure in relation to the variation of class rights and class AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION meetings, as required by the Law.
It is proposed under Resolution 13 and 14 to adopt changes to the Register of Members existing Memorandum and Articles of the Association to comply The Law contains more extensive provisions in relation to the with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the register of members which are covered in this section.
The following is a summary of the principal proposed changes: Untraceable Shareholders Memorandum of Association A new section regarding untraceable shareholders has been added to improve the Articles and the position of the Company regarding The memorandum of association the Memorandum currently untraceable shareholders.
contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to Alteration of Capital undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope of potential New and amended provisions have been included to deal with the activities.
The Law deems that a company has unrestricted objects changes pursuant to the Law in relation to the share capital of a unless it includes restrictions in its memorandum.
The objects company such as the removal of the requirement to have an clause in the Memorandum has been removed and the objects authorised share capital and permitting alterations to the share and powers of the Company will now be unrestricted.
The Law also requires that certain statements are made within the Memorandum, such as that the Company is a non-cellular General Meetings and Resolutions company.
This provision has now been included.
Articles in relation to Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings have been modified to comply with new The statement as to the unlimited share capital has been removed statutory provisions including amendments to: the time limits for and is instead contained in the Articles of Incorporation.
holding meetings, accounts and reports to be produced, calling Other clauses, such as the common signature, have been removed and giving notice of meetings, quorum requirements and proxies.
and the relevant clauses included instead within the Articles of In particular, these changes include: Incorporation: this allows their easier amendment in the future A proxy will now have all the rights of the shareholder who should that be necessary.
appointed him to attend and to speak and vote at a meeting of the Company: Articles of Association The substantive changes to the articles of association the Notices of meetings will now include certain prescribed Articles are as follows: information in respect of, amongst other things, shareholders rights to appoint a proxy.
Definitions Provisions have been inserted in relation to written resolutions Various definitions have been added or amended in the Articles in such that written shareholder resolutions may be proposed by order to comply with the Law.
Share Issues and Share Capital Directors and Secretary The Company shall have the right to issue any number of shares.
Amendments have been made to the Articles in relation to The Articles will specify that such issue shall be in accordance with Directors including in relation to Directors interests.
In particular, the specified provisions of the Law.
there are now provisions under the Law requiring directors to The Articles have been amended to include an authority, now make disclosures to the Board in respect of transactions in which required under the Law, for the directors to issue an unlimited they have an interest.
Relevantly, the Company can avoid a number of shares for a period of 5 years.
In practice, this authority transaction if such disclosure is not made unless there was no will be extended at each annual general meeting.
It is possible requirement to make the disclosure, the transaction is ratified or that the requirement to renew this authority may be removed in the Company receives fair value in respect of the transaction.
an anticipated amendment to the Law, and this is contemplated The previous Articles 87 and 88 relating respectively to cheques by the new Articles.
etc and keeping of minutes have been moved to immediately References in the Articles to special resolutions for reductions in before the new heading Conflict of Interest as they relate to the share capital have been removed as the concept of a reduction of heading Other Powers and duties of the Board, and Article 88 share capital by special resolution is no longer contained in the Law.
has been redrafted to be consistent with the new Law.
60 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp58-pp61 21 04 2015 15:23 Page 61 The Directors indemnity provisions have also been modified to limit any indemnity granted to directors to such indemnity as is able to be granted under the Law.
In practice, this means that the Directors will not be able to be indemnified by the Company for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
Provisions in relation to the maintenance of a register of directors have also been included to comply with the provisions of the Law.
Accounts and Auditors The provisions dealing with accounts in the Articles have been deleted and the new article simply states that the board shall maintain accounting records and issue reports in accordance with the Law.
This amendment has been made because the Law contains more extensive requirements in respect of what must be contained in the Companys accounts.
Removal of articles dealing with the appointment of Auditors and insertion of a reference to the appointment provisions under the Law have also been included.
Winding-up The Articles have been amended to permit the Company to be wound up in the circumstances as set out in the Law.
General Changes which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature which reflect changes made by the Law have not been noted in this summary.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 61
