OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The Unite Group plc the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30am.
on 14 May 2015 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 16 and 17 as special resolutions.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Annual Report and Accounts 1.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 together with the Directors' and auditors' report on those annual accounts the Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 62 to 71 inclusive and pages 72 to 83 inclusive respectively in the Annual Report and Accounts.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 9p per ordinary share payable on 19 May 2015 to shareholders on the register of members of the Company at the close of business on 24 April 2015.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 4 to 12 4.
To re-elect Mr P M White as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr M C Allan as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J J Lister as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R C Simpson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R S Smith as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs M K Wolstenholme as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Tim Wilson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr A Jones as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms E McMeikan as a Director of the Company.
To appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
That, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this Resolution, the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : a To exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company such shares, and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company being relevant securities, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,796,593 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph b below in excess of 16,796,593: b To allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 33,593,186 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any allotments or grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: i In favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them ii To holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider necessary but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, 138 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed, varied, extended or revoked by the Company in general meeting on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may at any time before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Authority to disapply pre-emption rights 16.
That, in accordance with Section 570 1 of the Act, the Directors be and are empowered to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act of the Company wholly for cash pursuant to the general authority under Section 551 of the Act conferred on them by Resolution 15 above as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities in favour of ordinary shareholders in the capital of the Company in the register of members of the Company on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them on that date, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 2,519,489: and c to the allotment other than under a above and in addition to b above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in aggregate 2,519,489 in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the allotment, or which has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment, and, unless previously revoked, varied or extended, this authority shall expire on the date falling 15 months from the passing of this Resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may, at any time before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke all previous authorities under Section 570 1 of the Act.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days' notice.
By order of the Board CHRISTOPHER SZPOJNAROWICZ Company Secretary Dated 23 February 2015 Registered office: The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Registered in England and Wales with registered number 03199160 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139 OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED NOTES 1.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should arrive at the offices of the Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30am.
In order to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this document, or otherwise prove their identity.
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares so a member must have more than one share to be able to appoint more than one proxy.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person and voting at the meeting although voting in person at the meeting will terminate a member's proxy appointment.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30am on 12 May 2015.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by following the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, the revocation of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access this site from any internet enabled PC.
If you submit your proxy via the internet it should reach the registrar by 9.30am on 12 May 2015.
Should you complete your proxy form electronically and then post a hard copy, the form that arrives last will be counted to the exclusion of instructions received earlier, whether electronic or posted.
Please refer to the terms and conditions of the service on the website.
In the case of joint holders of shares, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Any person to whom this notice has been sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
140 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 12.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
These rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 5.00pm on 12 May 2015 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the timed fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
In each case, changes to the register of members of the Company after such time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
As at 23 February 2015 being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 201,559,116 ordinary shares carrying one vote each at a general meeting of the Company.
No ordinary shares were held in treasury and therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 February 2015 are 201,559,116.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk: 1 the matters set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of the meeting was given.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Company's accounts including the auditor's report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Company's auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company's constitution or otherwise : and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms 'hard copy form', 'electronic form' and 'authenticated' bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the Annual General Meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms 'hard copy form', 'electronic form' and 'authenticated' bear the respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
A member that is a company or other organisation not having a physical presence cannot attend in person but can appoint someone to represent it.
This can be done in one of two ways: either by the appointment of a proxy as described in the notes above or of a corporate representative.
Members considering the appointment of a corporate representative should check their own legal position, the Company's articles of association and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 9.15am on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: a copies of the Executive Directors' service contracts with the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings: and b letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY ADJUSTED NET DEBT INTEREST COVER RATIO ICR The Groups debt, net of cash and unamortised debt raising costs, The interest cover ratio is the income generated by a property excluding the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
as a multiple of the interest charge on the debt secured on the property.
ADJUSTED NET DEBT TO PROPERTY ASSETS The adjusted net debt as a percentage of the value of LEASE Unite properties.
Properties which are leased to Universities for a number of years and have no Unite management presence.
BASIS POINTS BPS A basis point is a term used to describe a small percentage, LSAV usually in the context of change, and equates to 0.01%.
The London Student Accommodation Joint Venture LSAV is a joint venture between Unite and GIC, alongside UCC.
Both Unite DIRECT LET and GIC have a 50% stake and LSAV has the same maturity date Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made as UCC September 2022.
It is the primary vehicle through which directly between Unite and the student.
Unite undertakes development activity in London and it has right of first refusal over Unites London development pipeline projects EPRA EARNINGS until such time as its capital investment targets are met.
LSAV and EPRA earnings are prepared on the basis recommended for UCC were merged during the year and the new combined entity real estate companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate is referred to as LSAV.
This excludes movements relating to changes in values of investment properties and interest rate swaps and MINIMUM NET WORTH the related tax effects.
Minimum net worth covenant measures the value of the Company against an absolute target.
EPRA EARNINGS PER SHARE The diluted earnings per share based on EPRA earnings.
NET INITIAL YIELD NIY OR YIELD The net operating income generated by a property expressed EPRA NAV as a percentage of its value, taking into account notional EPRA NAV is prepared on the basis recommended for real estate acquisition costs.
companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association.
This includes all property at market value but excludes the mark NET OPERATING INCOME NOI to market of interest rate swaps.
This is recommended by EPRA The rental income from rental properties less those operating as a going concern measure of net assets.
costs directly related to the property, therefore excluding central overhead.
EPRA NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE The diluted NAV per share figure based on EPRA NAV.
NET RENTAL GROWTH The annual growth in net operating income measured on a likeEPRA NNNAV for-like basis, ie excluding impact of completion and disposals.
As EPRA NAV but includes both debt and interest rate swaps carried at market value.
This is recommended by EPRA as a spot NOMINATIONS fair value net asset measure.
Properties where Universities have entered into a contract to guarantee occupancy.
The Universities nominate students to FINANCING COSTS live in the building and Unite enters into short-hold tenancies Gross financing costs net of interest capitalised into developments with the students.
and interest received on deposits.
NON-CORE ASSETS GROSS FINANCING COSTS Properties which do not fit with the Groups long-term investment This includes all interest paid by the Group, including those strategy, because of either their location or their size.
capitalised into developments and operating lease rentals.
It includes all receipts and payments under interest rate swaps OCB whether they are effective or ineffective under IFRS as Established a joint venture with Oasis Capital OCB in August economically they all hedge interest rate exposures.
The three assets located in London were all sold in 2014.
RENTAL PROPERTIES Investment and completed properties whose construction has been completed and are used by the Operations segment to generate net portfolio contribution.
142 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information SALE AND LEASEBACK Properties which have been sold to a third party investor then leased back to the Company.
Unite is also responsible for the management of these assets on behalf of the owner.
STABILISING ASSETS Properties that have recently been developed and are not yet generating their optimal net operating income.
TOTAL INCOME FROM MANAGED PORTFOLIO This measure indicates the overall scale of the property portfolio that the Group manages.
It comprises rental and related income, totalling 254.6 million from properties owned by Unite and its co-investment vehicles.
The Groups share of this gross income is shown in note 2.2 a. UCC Unite Capital Cities UCC was established in 2005 as a joint venture between Unite and GIC Real Estate.
It is a closed-ended vehicle due to mature in 2022 and was established by Unite to develop and operate student accommodation in London and Edinburgh.
UCC equity is now fully invested and all development projects have been completed.
LSAV and UCC were merged during the year and the new combined entity is referred to as LSAV.
USAF THE FUND The Unite UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF is Europes largest fund that purely focuses on completed income providing student accommodation investment assets.
The fund is an open-ended infinite life vehicle which has unique buying access to Unites development pipeline.
Unite acts as fund manager for the fund, as well as owning a significant minority stake.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 OTHER INFORMATION COMPANY INFORMATION Unite Group executive team Mark Allan Chief Executive Officer Joe Lister Chief Financial Officer Richard Simpson Managing Director of Property Richard Smith Managing Director of Operations Registered Office The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX Registered Number in England 3199160 Company Secretary Christopher Szpojnarowicz Auditor KPMG LLP 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Financial Advisers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street London E14 5JP Numis Securities The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Financial PR Consultants Bell Pottinger Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings London WC2A 1PB 144 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OTHER INFORMATION WHERE TO FIND OUT MORE THIS REPORT IS COMPLEMENTED BY A RANGE OF ONLINE INFORMATION ABOUT OUR BUSINESS INCLUDING OUR OPERATIONS AND PROPERTY DIVISIONS, OUR MARKETS, AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY.
co. uk Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk The Unite Group plc The Core 40 St Thomas Street Bristol BS1 6JX 44 0 117 302 7000 info@unite-students.
