Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements the contractual cash flow characteristics Basis of preparation IFRS10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, The consolidated financial statements the standard retains most of the IAS 39 by identifying the concept of control as have been prepared on a going concern the determining factor in whether an requirements.
The main change is that, basis in accordance with International in cases where the fair value option is entity should be included within the Financial Reporting Standards as consolidated financial statements of the taken for financial liabilities, the part of adopted by the European Union a fair value change due to an entitys parent company.
The standard provides IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRSIC additional guidance to assist in the own credit risk is recorded in other Interpretations and the Companies comprehensive income rather than the determination of control where this is Act 2006 applicable to companies difficult to assess.
Acquisitions during income statement, unless this creates an reporting under IFRS.
The group is yet the year are set out in note 25.
The financial statements have been prepared standard did not have a significant to assess IFRS 9s full impact and the under the historical cost convention, group will also consider the impact of impact on the group financial as modified by financial assets and statements in the year.
the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when financial liabilities including derivative completed by the Board.
instruments at fair value through the IFRS12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the disclosure IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts profit and loss account.
These policies have been consistently applied to all requirements for all forms of interests with customers deals with revenue in other entities, including joint recognition and establishes principles the years presented.
arrangements, associates, structured for reporting useful information to users The preparation of financial statements entities and other off balance sheet of financial statements about the nature, in conformity with IFRS requires the use vehicles.
The standard did not have amount, timing and uncertainty of of certain critical accounting estimates.
a significant impact on the group revenue and cash flows arising from It also requires management to exercise financial statements.
an entitys contracts with customers.
its judgement in the process of applying Revenue is recognised when a customer the groups accounting policies.
The Amendment to IAS 32, Financial obtains control of a good or service and areas involving a higher degree of instruments: Presentation on offsetting thus has the ability to direct the use and financial assets and financial liabilities.
judgement or complexity, or areas obtain the benefits from the good or where assumptions and estimates are This amendment clarifies that the right service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 of set-off must not be contingent on a significant to the consolidated financial Revenue and IAS 11 Construction statements are disclosed on page 126. future event.
It must also be legally contracts and related interpretations.
enforceable for all counterparties in the The standard is effective for annual normal course of business, as well as in Going concern periods beginning on or after 1 January the event of default, insolvency or 2017 and earlier application is permitted The group meets its day-to-day working bankruptcy.
The groups offsetting of subject to EU endorsement.
The group capital requirements through its bank financial assets and liabilities are set is assessing the impact of IFRS 15. facilities.
The current economic conditions out in note 17.
The amendment did not continue to create uncertainty particularly have a significant effect on the group There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC over a the level of demand for the financial statements.
interpretations that are not yet effective groups products: and b the availability that would be expected to have a A number of new standards and of bank finance for the foreseeable material impact on the group.
amendments to standards and future.
The groups forecasts and interpretations are effective for annual projections, taking account of Consolidation periods beginning after 1 January 2014, reasonably possible changes in trading and have not been applied in preparing performance, show that the group The group financial statements these consolidated financial statements.
consolidate the financial statements should be able to operate within the None of these are expected to have a level of its current facilities.
After making of the company and all its subsidiaries.
significant effect on the consolidated Subsidiaries are all entities over which enquiries, the directors have a financial statements of the group, reasonable expectation that the group the group has the power to govern the except the following set out below: financial and operating policies generally has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable accompanying a shareholding of more IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses than one half of the voting rights.
The group therefore continues the classification, measurement and to adopt the going concern basis in Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from recognition of financial assets and the date on which control is transferred preparing its consolidated financial financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in statements.
Further information on the to the group and are fide-consolidated November 2009 and October 2010.
It from the date on which control ceases.
groups borrowings is given in note 15. replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement All intra-group transactions are Changes in accounting of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires eliminated as part of the consolidation policies and disclosures financial assets to be classified into two process.
Accounting policies of measurement categories: those subsidiaries have been changed where The following standards have been measured as at fair value and those necessary to ensure consistency with adopted by the group for the first time measured at amortised cost.
the policies adopted by the group.
for the financial year beginning on or The determination is made at initial after 1 January 2014 and have a material recognition.
The classification depends impact on the group: on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and 120 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements c Group companies Business combinations business lines of Workwear, Facility, UK Flat Linen, Flat Linen outside the UK, and The results and financial position of all The group uses the acquisition method Clinical Solutions and Decontamination.
of accounting to account for business the group entities that have a functional The groups internal reporting structure is currency different from the presentation combinations.
The consideration aligned on the same basis and segmental transferred for the acquisition of a currency are translated into the information is presented on a basis presentation currency as follows: subsidiary is the fair values of the assets consistent with this reporting structure.
transferred, the liabilities incurred and, assets and liabilities for each balance the equity interests issued by the group.
Foreign currency translation sheet presented are translated at The consideration transferred includes the closing rate at the date of that the fair value of any asset or liability balance sheet: a Functional and resulting from a contingent consideration presentation currency, income and expenses for each income arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and disclosed statement are translated at average Items included in the financial statements exchange rates unless this average as exceptional items where significant.
of each of the groups entities are Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities is not a reasonable approximation measured using the currency of the of the cumulative effect of the rates and contingent liabilities assumed in a primary economic environment in which business combination are measured prevailing on the transaction dates, in the entity operates the functional which case income and expenses are initially at their fair values at the currency.
The consolidated financial acquisition date.
The excess of the translated at the rate on the dates of statements are presented in sterling, the transactions : and consideration transferred, the amount which is the companys functional and of any non-controlling interest in the presentation currency.
all resulting exchange differences are acquiree and the acquisition date fair recognised as a separate component value of any previous equity interest in b Transactions and balances of equity.
the acquiree over the fair value of the Foreign currency transactions are groups share of the identifiable net On consolidation, exchange differences translated into the functional currency arising from the translation of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
using the exchange rates prevailing at If this is less than the fair value of the investment in foreign operations, and the dates of the transactions.
Foreign of borrowings and other currency net assets of the subsidiary acquired exchange gains and losses resulting in the case of a bargain purchase, the instruments designated as hedges from the settlement of such transactions of such investments, are taken to difference is recognised directly in and from the translation at year end the consolidated income statement.
When a foreign exchange rates of monetary assets operation is partially disposed of or and liabilities denominated in foreign sold, exchange differences that were Current assets held for sale currencies are recognised in the income recorded in equity are recognised in statement, except when deferred in Current assets and disposal groups the income statement as part of the equity as qualifying cash flow hedges classified as held for sale are measured gain or loss on sale.
and qualifying net investment hedges.
at the lower of carrying amount and fair Goodwill and fair value adjustments values less costs to sell.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that arising on the acquisition of a foreign Current assets and disposal groups are relate to borrowings and cash and cash entity are treated as assets and liabilities equivalents are presented in the income classified as held for sale if their carrying of the foreign entity and translated at amount will be recovered through a sale statement within finance income or the closing rate.
All other foreign exchange gains transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met and losses are presented in the income Pre-contract bid costs statement within operating expenses.
only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is Pre-contract costs are expensed as Translation differences on non-monetary incurred until the group is appointed available for immediate sale in its financial assets and liabilities are present condition.
Preferred bidder status reported as part of the fair value gain provides sufficient confidence that the be committed to the sale which should or loss.
Translation differences on nonbe expected to qualify for recognition conclusion of the contract is probable, monetary financial assets and liabilities the outcome can be reliably measured as a completed sale within one year such as equities held at fair value from the date of classification.
and is expected to generate sufficient through profit or loss are recognised net cash inflows to enable recovery.
in profit or loss as part of the fair value Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent Segment reporting gain or loss.
Translation differences on to appointment as preferred bidder non-monetary financial assets such Operating segments are reported in are capitalised onto the balance sheet as equities classified as available a manner consistent with the internal under prepayments and accrued for sale are included in other reserves.
reporting provided to the chief income.
The prepayment is expensed operating decision-maker.
The chief to the income statement over the period operating decision-maker, who is of the contract.
Costs, which have been responsible for allocating resources and expensed, are not subsequently assessing performance of the operating reinstated when a contract award segments, has been identified as the is achieved.
The Berendsen plc Executive Board manages the business under the Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 121 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Property, plant Intangible assets Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software and equipment a Goodwill product include the software development Land and buildings comprise mainly employee costs and an appropriate factories and offices.
All property, plant Goodwill represents the excess of the portion of relevant overheads.
cost of an acquisition over the fair and equipment are shown at cost less Other development expenditures that do accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired not meet these criteria are recognised expenditure that is directly attributable as an expense as incurred.
Development to the acquisition of the items.
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net of amortisation prior to costs previously recognised as an Textile assets such as garments and expense are not recognised as an asset 1 January 2005 in respect of business linen and washroom equipment which combinations made since 1 January in a subsequent period.
are owned by the group entities where 1998 is included within intangible Computer software development costs substantially all the risks and rewards of assets.
Goodwill in respect of business recognised as assets are amortised over ownership of such equipment is retained combinations made on or before their estimated useful lives, which does by group entities are capitalised as 31 December 1997 remains eliminated not exceed five years.
non-current assets and depreciated against reserves.
over their estimated useful lives.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
c Customer contracts Depreciation of assets is calculated Goodwill is tested annually for Intangible assets arising either from legal using the straight-line method to or contractual rights which have been allocate the cost of each asset to its impairment or if there is an indication of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to purchased are required to be separately residual value over its estimated useful identified from goodwill and are stated life, as follows: groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a a Land and buildings and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill business combination, at fair value.
The Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum fair value attributable to the customer relating to the entity sold except for on an estimate of the buildings value of goodwill eliminated against reserves.
contracts is determined by discounting freehold properties and leasehold the expected future cash flows to be properties with 50 or more years b Computer software generated from that asset at the risk unexpired at the balance sheet date.
adjusted weighted average cost of This rate has been determined having Acquired computer software licences capital for the entity.
This amount is are capitalised on the basis of the costs regard to the groups practice to amortised over the period in which the maintain these assets in a continual state incurred to acquire and bring to use company is expected to benefit from the specific software.
These costs are of sound repair and to extend and make the contracts acquired, over periods improvements from time to time.
amortised over their estimated useful ranging from two to five years.
lives not exceeding three years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings Costs associated with maintaining Impairment of non-financial are depreciated by equal instalments computer software programmes are assets over the period of the lease.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life Major renovations are depreciated over Development costs that are directly for example, goodwill are not subject attributable to the design and testing the remaining useful life of the related to amortisation and are tested annually asset or to the scheduled date of the next of identifiable and unique software for impairment.
products controlled by the group are major renovation, whichever is sooner.
recognised as intangible assets when Assets that are subject to amortisation the following criteria are met: b Plant and machinery or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50%, it is technically feasible to complete in circumstances indicate that the per annum, depending on the class the software product so that it will carrying amount may not be recoverable.
be available for use: An impairment loss is recognised for the, management intends to complete amount by which the assets carrying c Textile assets and the software product and use or sell it: amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
washroom equipment The recoverable amount is the higher, there is an ability to use or sell the Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40%, of an assets fair value less costs to sell software product: depending on class of asset, and and value in use.
For the purposes of, it can be demonstrated how the augmented where necessary by assessing impairment, assets are amounts to cover wastage, software product will generate grouped at the lowest levels for probable future economic benefits: obsolescence and loss.
which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
When properties, plant or equipment, adequate technical, financial and Non-financial assets other than goodwill are sold, the difference between the other resources to complete the that suffered impairment are reviewed sales proceeds and net book value is development and to use or sell the for possible reversal of the impairment included in the income statement.
software product are available: and at each reporting date.
the expenditure attributable to the Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually and amended software product during its development can be reliably measured.
122 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements a Fair value hedge d Derivatives that do not qualify Financial assets for hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of the The group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as loans and receivables.
derivatives that are fully designated and Changes in the fair value of any qualify as fair value hedges are recorded derivative instruments that do not The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets in the income statement, together with qualify for hedge accounting are any changes in the fair value of the recognised immediately in the were acquired.
the classification of its financial assets at hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
e Energy contracts The group has no 2013: one fair value Loans and receivables are non-derivative and textile procurement hedge in respect of a cross currency financial assets with fixed or determinable fixed to floating interest rate swap.
If the The group occasionally takes out energy payments that are not quoted in an hedge no longer meets the criteria for contracts in relation to the supply of gas active market.
hedge accounting, the exchange and electricity.
In addition, from time to component of the derivative will time, the group may enter into forward Derivative financial continue to be taken to the income contracts to buy cotton based textiles instruments and hedging statement as part of operating expenses at a future date.
Such contracts are not activities along with the exchange on the related recognised as derivative financial Derivatives are initially recognised at fair borrowings.
The interest component of instruments as they are held with the value on the date a derivative contract the derivative item will be amortised to purpose of the receipt or delivery of a is entered into and are subsequently the income statement over the period non-financial item in accordance with remeasured at their fair value at each to maturity.
the entitys expected purchase, sale or balance sheet date.
The method of usage requirements.
recognising the resulting gain or loss b Net investment hedge depends on whether the derivative is Inventories Any gain or loss on the hedging designated as a hedging instrument, and instrument relating to the effective Inventories are stated at the lower of if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
portion of the hedge is recognised cost and net realisable value.
Cost is The group designates certain derivatives directly against reserves.
The gain or determined using the first in, first out as either i hedges of the fair value of loss relating to any ineffective portion FIFO method.
The cost of finished recognised assets or liabilities fair value is recognised immediately in the goods comprises of raw materials, direct hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk income statement.
labour, other direct costs and related associated with a recognised asset or production overheads.
Net realisable Gains and losses accumulated in equity liability, or a highly probable forecast value is the estimated selling price in are included in the income statement transaction cash flow hedge : or iii the ordinary course of business, less when the foreign operation is partially hedges of net investments in foreign applicable variable selling expenses.
Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
The group documents at the inception c Cash flow hedge of the transaction the relationship The effective portion of changes in between hedging instruments and Trade and other receivables the fair value of derivatives that are hedged items and its assessment, both Trade receivables are recognised initially designated to qualify as cash flow at hedge inception and on an ongoing at fair value less provision for impairment.
hedges are recognised in equity.
The basis, of whether the derivatives that are They are subsequently held at amortised groups cash flow hedges which are in used in the hedging transactions are cost less provision for impairment.
respect of cross-currency interest rate highly effective in offsetting changes A provision for impairment of trade swaps, interest rate swaps and forward in fair values of hedged items.
receivables is established when there foreign exchange contracts result in The fair values of various derivative is objective evidence that the group recognition in either profit and loss, instruments used for hedging purposes will not be able to collect all amounts reflecting the foreign currency translation are shown in note 16.
Movements on the due according to the original terms of element, or in the hedging reserve which hedging reserve are shown within the the receivables.
The amount of the forms part of other reserves.
statement of changes in equity as part change in provision is recognised in When a hedging instrument expires or of other reserves.
The group holds no the income statement.
is sold, or when the hedge no longer trading derivatives.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 123 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued taxable entities where there is an intention Cash and cash equivalents the assets are ready for their intended use or sale.
to settle the balances on a net basis.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated net of bank overdrafts, where the group Commitment and borrowing fees are Tax is recognised in the income capitalised as part of the loan and statement except to the extent that it has a legal right of set off and includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with amortised over the life of the relevant relates to items recognised directly in agreement.
All other borrowing costs equity, in which case it is recognised banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of are recognised in the income statement in equity.
in the period in which they are incurred.
Employee benefits Borrowings are classified as non-current Share capital liabilities where the group has an a Pension obligations unconditional right to defer settlement Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are recorded at par value of proceeds of the liability for at least 12 months after The group operates various pension the balance sheet date.
received, net of direct issue costs.
The schemes are funded shares are issued above par value, the through payments to insurance proceeds in excess of par value are Current and deferred companies or a trustee administered recorded in the share premium account.
income tax fund, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The group has both defined Where any group company purchases The current income tax charge is benefit and defined contribution plans.
the companys equity share capital, calculated on the basis of the tax laws A defined benefit plan is a pension plan the consideration paid, including any enacted or substantively enacted at the that defines an amount of pension directly attributable incremental costs, balance sheet date in the countries benefit that an employee will receive is deducted from equity attributable to where the groups subsidiaries operate on retirement, usually dependent on one the companys shareholders until the and generate taxable income.
or more factors such as age, years of shares are cancelled, reissued or Deferred income tax is recognised, service and compensation.
Where such shares are contribution plan is a pension plan under using the liability method, on temporary subsequently sold or reissued, any differences arising between the tax which the group pays fixed contributions consideration received, net of any into a separate entity.
The group has no bases of assets and liabilities and their directly attributable incremental costs, legal or constructive obligations to pay carrying amounts in the consolidated is included in equity attributable to the further contributions if the fund does financial statements.
not hold sufficient assets to pay all deferred income tax is not accounted employees the benefits relating to for, if it arises from initial recognition of Trade payables employee service in the current and an asset or liability in a transaction other prior periods.
Trade payables are obligations to pay than a business combination that at the for goods or services that have been time of the transaction affects neither The net asset recognised in the balance acquired in the ordinary course of accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
sheet in respect of defined benefit business from suppliers.
Accounts Deferred income tax is determined using pension plans is the present value of the payable are classified as current liabilities tax rates and laws that have been defined benefit obligation at the balance if payment is due within one year or less enacted or substantively enacted by the sheet date less the fair value of plan or in the normal operating cycle of the balance sheet date and are expected to assets, together with adjustments for business if longer.
If not, they are apply when the related deferred income unrecognised actuarial gains or losses presented as non-current liabilities.
tax asset is realised or the deferred and past service costs.
The defined income tax liability is settled.
Trade payables are recognised initially benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the at fair value and subsequently measured Deferred income tax assets are recognised at amortised cost using the effective to the extent that it is probable that projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit interest method.
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using can be utilised.
Borrowings interest rates of high quality corporate Deferred income tax is provided on Borrowings are recognised initially at fair bonds that are denominated in the temporary differences arising on value, net of transaction costs incurred.
currency in which the benefits will be investments in subsidiaries and Any difference between the amount paid, and that have terms to maturity associates, except where the timing of initially recognised net of transaction approximating to the terms of the the reversal of the temporary difference costs and the redemption value is related pension liability.
is controlled by the group and it is recognised in the income statement probable that the temporary difference The group recognises the surplus arising over the period of the borrowings using on its deferred benefit schemes to the will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
extent that it has a legal right to do so Deferred income tax assets and liabilities Borrowing costs which are directly under the scheme rules.
are offset when there is a legally attributable to the acquisition, Current and past service costs, to the enforceable right to offset current tax construction or production of a assets against current tax liabilities and extent they have vested, are recognised qualifying asset one that takes a in operating costs in the income when the deferred income taxes assets substantial period of time to get ready and liabilities relate to income taxes statement together with interest costs for use or sale are capitalised as part of on plan liabilities and the expected levied by the same taxation authority the cost of that asset, until such time as on either the taxable entity or different return on plan assets.
124 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cumulative actuarial gains and losses Provisions obligations, net of finance charges, are arising from experience adjustments included in other long-term payables.
Provisions for vacant properties, and change in actuarial assumptions are The interest element of the finance cost restructuring costs and legal claims credited or charged to the statement of is charged to the income statement are recognised when the group has a comprehensive income and expense net over the lease period so as to produce present legal or constructive obligation of deferred tax.
a constant periodic rate of interest on as a result of past events and it is more the remaining balance of the liability For defined contribution plans, the likely than not that an outflow of for each period.
Property, plant and group pays contributions to publicly resources will be required to settle the equipment acquired under finance or privately administered pension obligation: and the amount has been leases are depreciated over the shorter insurance or trustee administered plans reliably estimated.
of the assets useful life and the on a mandatory, contractual or lease term.
A provision for onerous contracts is voluntary basis.
The group has no recognised when the expected benefits further payment obligations once Leases where the lessor retains to be derived by the group from a the contributions have been paid.
substantially all the risks and rewards contract are lower than the unavoidable The contributions are recognised as of ownership are classified as operating cost of meeting its obligations under employee benefit expense when they leases.
Payments made under operating the contract.
Prepaid contributions are leases net of any incentives received recognised as an asset to the extent from the lessor are charged to the Revenue recognition that a cash refund or a reduction in income statement on a straight-line the future payments is available.
basis over the period of the lease.
Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net of value b Share-based payment plans Dividend distribution added tax and other similar sales based taxes, rebates and discounts and after The groups management awards Final dividend distribution to the eliminating sales within the group.
employees share options, from time to companys shareholders is recognised Revenue is recognised as follows: time, both on a discretionary and nonas a liability in the groups financial discretionary basis which are subject to statements in the period in which a Service income vesting conditions.
The economic cost the dividends are approved by the of awarding the share options to its Income received or receivable in respect companys shareholders.
Interim employees is recognised as an employee dividends are recognised when paid.
of service income is credited to revenue benefit expense in the income statement as and when services are rendered in equivalent to the fair value of the benefit respect of mats, linen, washroom and Income statement awarded.
The fair value is determined by decontamination services.
Revenue is presentation reference to the Black-Scholes option recognised on a per item basis for pricing model.
The charge is recognised delivery of laundered textiles to hotels a Exceptional items in the income statement over the and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and Items that are material in size or nonvesting period of the award.
laundering of workwear is recognised operating in nature are presented on a regular, periodic basis in The proceeds received are credited as exceptional items in the income accordance with the terms of the to share capital nominal value and statement.
The directors are of the contract.
share premium when the options opinion that separate recording of are exercised.
exceptional items provides helpful b Sale of goods revenue information about the groups c Termination benefits For non-contract based business, underlying business performance.
revenue represents the value of Examples of events, which may give Termination benefits are payable when goods delivered.
rise to the classification of items as an employment is terminated before the exceptional include, inter alia, normal retirement date, or whenever an Accrued income comprises revenue restructuring of businesses, gains employee accepts voluntary redundancy contractually earned for services and losses on disposal of properties, in exchange for these benefits.
The performed that are invoiced to the acquisition costs, impairment of group recognises termination benefits customer primarily in the following month.
when it is shown to be committed to either: terminating the employment of Leases b Amortisation of customer contracts current employees according to a Leases of property, plant and equipment detailed formal plan without possibility These are presented separately in where the group has substantially all the of withdrawal: or providing termination the income statement as they arise risks and rewards of ownership are benefits as a result of an offer made to from acquisitions.
leases are capitalised at the leases c Other operating expenses commencement at the lower of the fair d Holiday pay value of the leased property and the These comprise the groups intangible Paid holidays are regarded as an employee present value of the minimum lease asset amortisation and exceptional items.
benefit and as such are charged to the payments.
Each lease payment is income statement as the benefits are allocated between the liability and earned.
An accrual is made at the balance finance charges so as to achieve a sheet date to reflect the fair value of constant rate on the finance balance holidays earned but not yet taken.
The corresponding lease Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 125 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued b Pensions and other postd Share-based payments Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty employment benefits The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees is The preparation of the consolidated The group operates a number of defined financial statements in conformity with benefit schemes within the UK and reflected by recording a charge in the income statement equivalent to the fair IFRS requires management to make Europe note 27.
As at 31 December estimates and assumptions that affect 2014 the present value of the groups value of the benefit awarded over the vesting period.
The fair values of the the application of policies and reported defined benefit obligation for funded amounts of assets, liabilities, income, plans was a surplus of 35.7 million and awards are determined by use of the Black-Scholes model.
The a deficit of 34.7 million for unfunded estimates and underlying assumptions plans.
The calculations of the recognised e Provisions are based on historical experience and assets and liabilities from such plans are other relevant factors.
This approach based upon statistical and actuarial Provisions for vacant properties, forms the basis of making the calculations.
In particular the present restructuring costs and legal claims judgements about carrying values of value of the defined benefit obligation is are recognised when the group has a assets and liabilities that are not readily impacted by assumptions on discount present legal or constructive obligation apparent from other sources.
Actual rates used to arrive at the present value as a result of past events and it is more results may differ from these estimates.
of future pension liabilities, and likely than not that an outflow of assumptions on future increases in resources will be required to settle the The estimates and underlying salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, the assumptions are reviewed on an obligation, and the amount has been groups independent actuaries use reliably estimated.
Changes in accounting statistically based assumptions covering estimates may be necessary if there are areas such as future withdrawals of changes in the circumstances on which participants from the plan and estimates the estimate was based, or as a result on life expectancy.
The actuarial of new information.
Such changes are assumptions used may differ materially recognised in the period in which the from actual results due to changes in estimate is revised.
market and economic conditions, higher The key assumptions about the future or lower withdrawal rates or longer or and key sources of estimation shorter life spans of participants and uncertainty that have a risk of causing other changes in the factors being a material adjustment to the carrying assessed.
These differences could value of assets and liabilities within the impact the assets or liabilities recognised next 12 months are described below.
in the balance sheet in future periods.
The last triennial valuation of the main a Property, plant and equipment and UK pension scheme took place in intangible assets, including goodwill February 2013.
The group has property, plant and c Income taxes equipment with a carrying value of 491.2 million note 10, goodwill with a At 31 December 2014, the net liability carrying value of 390.2 million note 8 for current income taxes is 11.2 million and intangible assets with a carrying and the net liability for deferred income value of 37.1 million note 9.
These taxes is 49.5 million note 19.
Estimates assets are reviewed annually for may be required in determining the level impairment as described above.
A value of current and deferred income tax in use model is used.
To assess if any assets and liabilities, which management impairment exists, estimates are made believes are reasonable and adequately of the future cash flows expected to recognises any income tax related result from the use of the assets and uncertainties.
Actual outcomes Various factors may have favourable could vary from such estimates of or unfavourable effects on the income discounted future cash flows.
Factors tax assets and liabilities.
These include such as changes in the planned use of changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction buildings, machinery or equipment, or we operate in, tax rates, interpretations closure of facilities, the presence of of existing tax laws, future levels of competition, or lower than anticipated spending and in overall levels of sales could result in shortened useful future earnings.
126 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014
