ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 An Ore Reserve is the economically INTRODUCTION DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORIES mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated OF ORE RESERVES The ore reserves and mineral resources Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting ANDMINERAL RESOURCES estimates presented in this report comply materials and allowances for losses, which with the requirements of the Australasian A Mineral Resource is a concentration or may occur when the material is mined.
Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, occurrence of material of intrinsic economic Appropriate assessments and studies have Mineral Resources andOre Reserves 2012 interest inoron the Earths crust in such been carried out, and include consideration edition the JORC Code which has been form, quality and quantity that there are of and modification by realistically assumed used by the Group as minimum standard reasonable prospects foreventual economic mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, for the preparation and disclosure of the extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, legal, environmental, social and governmental information contained herein.
The definitions geological characteristics and continuity of a factors.
These assessments demonstrate andcategories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Mineral Resource are known, estimated or at the time of reporting that extraction could Resources are set out below.
interpreted from specific geological evidence reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence The information on ore reserves and mineral sub-divided, in order of increasing geological into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved resources was prepared by or under the confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Ore Reserves.
supervision ofCompetent Persons as defined Measured categories.
The Competent Persons A Probable Ore Reserve is the have sufficient experience relevant to the An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part economically mineable part of an Indicated, style of mineralisation and type of deposit of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, and in some circumstances, a Measured under consideration and totheactivity grade and mineral content can be estimated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting which they are undertaking.
The Competent with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred materials and allowances for losses which Persons consent to the inclusion in thisreport from geological evidence and assumed but may occur when the material is mined.
of the matters based on their information not verified geological and or grade continuity.
Appropriate assessments and studies have in the form and context in which it appears.
It is based on information gathered through been carried out, and include consideration The Competent Person for Exploration appropriate techniques from locations such of and modification by realistically assumed Results and Mineral Resources except for as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, the Twin Metals Mineral Resource Estimate holes which may be limited or of uncertain legal, environmental, social and governmental is Guillermo Muller CP, Chile, Manager of quality and reliability.
Theseassessments demonstrate Mineral Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta at the time of reporting that extraction could An Indicated Mineral Resource is that Minerals.
The Competent Person for the .
part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, Twin Metals Mineral Resource Estimate is densities, shape, physical characteristics, A Proved Ore Reserve is the Dr. Harry Parker, SME, Registered Member, grade and mineral content can be estimated economically mineable part of a Measured Technical Director of AMEC.
The Competent with a reasonable level of confidence.
Itincludes diluting Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield based on exploration, sampling and testing materials and allowances for losses P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager of Mining information gathered through appropriate which may occur when the material is for Antofagasta Minerals.
techniques from locations such as outcrops, mined.
Appropriate assessments and The Groups operations and projects are trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
studies have been carried out, and include subject to a comprehensive programme The locations are too widely or inappropriately consideration ofand modification by of audits aimed atproviding assurance in spaced to confirm geological and or grade realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, respect of ore reserves and mineral resources continuity but are spaced closely enough economic, marketing, legal, environmental, estimates.
The audits areconducted by forcontinuity to be assumed.
suitably qualified Competent Persons Theseassessments demonstrate at A Measured Mineral Resource is that from within a particular division, another thetime ofreporting that extraction could partof a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, division of the Company or from reasonablybe justified.
densities, shape, physical characteristics, independent consultants.
grade and mineral content can be estimated The ore reserves and mineral resources with a high level ofconfidence.
It is based estimates represent full reserves and on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling resources, with the Groups attributable share and testing information gathered through for each mine shown in the Attributable appropriate techniques from locations Tonnage column.
The Groups economic such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings interest in each mine is disclosed in the and drill holes.
The locations are spaced notes following the estimates on pages closely enough to confirm geological 167to169.
The totals in the table may andgrade continuity.
include some small apparent differences as the specificindividual figures have notbeen rounded.
Its operations comprise open consists of the integration of the Esperanza The ore reserves mentioned in this report pit mines, underground mines and other referred to as Centinela Concentrates and were determined considering specific cut-off workings.
The cut-off grade applied to the El Tesoro referred to as Centinela Cathodes grades for each mine and using a long-term operations.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and mineral copper price of $3.10 lb $3.00 lb in 2013, determination of ore reserves for Centinela resources is 0.38 % copper for open pit, $11.00 lb molybdenum unchanged from Concentrates ex-Esperanza is 0.20% 1.2% copper for the Estefana underground 2013 and $1,300 oz gold $1,200 oz gold in equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used mine and 0.8% copper for other workings.
These same as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
Ore reserves decreased by a net 6 million values have been used for copper equivalent The cut-off grade used for the Centinela tonnes, including depletion of 4 million CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
Cathodes ex-El Tesoro pits is as follows: tonnes.
Plant feed was 4.5 million tonnes, Tesoro Central and Tesoro North-East In order to ensure that the stated resources with the difference coming from ore not deposits is 0.41% copper for ore reserves represent mineralisation that has reasonable considered in the mine plan.
and 0.31% for mineral resources: the Mirador prospects for eventual economic extraction deposit is 0.30% copper for ore reserves Mineral resources decreased by 1 million JORC code the resources are enclosed and 0.15% for mineral resources.
The mineral resources estimate within pit shells that were optimised based on grade applied to oxides contained in the for Michilla includes several resource block measured, indicated and inferred resources Centinela Concentrates deposit processed models, incorporating the multiple deposits and considering a copper price of $3.60 lb separately as Run-of-Mine leach, or ROM on the property.
Mineralisation estimated is 0.20% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% outside these pit shells is not included in the Not included in the mineral resources copper for mineral resources.
For 2014 the resource figures unless they can expect to be estimate is the spent ore deposited on site.
mineral resource model has been updated exploited by underground methods.
This is material that is removed from the with 91 drill holes for 30,500 metres, dynamic heap-leach pads after the primary A LOS PELAMBRES allintheCentinela Concentrates deposit.
During 2014, Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The Centinela integrated ore reserves 8.4 million tonnes of spent ore at a grade of The cut-off grade applied to the determination increased by a net 89 million tonnes after 0.26% was processed through the secondary of ore reserves and mineral resources is depletion of 41 million tonnes, and the leaching process.
2.6 million tonnes of this 0.35% copper.
For 2014 the mineral resource integrated mineral resources by a net material was from the dynamic leach pads model has been updated with 225 drill holes 93 million tonnes.
The increase is mainly re-leaching of part of the ore processed for a total of 76,100 metres.
due to changes in the Esperanza Sur pit during 2014 and 5.8 million tonnes from design, taking into consideration updates theexisting spent ore dump.
The decrease of 65 million tonnes in ore to the resource model, geotechnical design reserves is due principally to depletion in the E ENCUENTRO and economic parameters in the period.
period and reflects the remaining capacity of The Centinela Cathodes ore reserves are Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
the existing tailing dams, limiting the amount made up of 99 million tonnes at 0.66% The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resource that can be converted copper of heap-leach and 109 million tonnes of mineral resources for both oxides and intoore reserves.
at 0.30% copper of ROM ore. sulphides is 0.15% copper.
Mineral resources increased overall by a Total mineral resources have decreased by net 510 million tonnes, including depletion.
C ANTUCOYA 53 million tonnes, with updates to the cost Mineral resources in the measured Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
model used in the optimisation process plus indicated categories increased by The cut-off grade applied to the determination more than offsetting the increase in copper 1,022 million tonnes while resources in the of ore reserves is approximately 0.2% copper, price used.
inferred category decreased by 512 million with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade tonnes, reflecting increased information from formineral resources.
F POLO SUR new drill holes improving the confidence in Pre-stripping continued in the Antucoya Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
pit during 2014, with no depletion of ore The cut-off grade applied to the determination reserves or mineral resources in the period.
of mineral resources for both oxides and Ore reserves have increased by 46 million sulphides is 0.20% copper.
tonnes due to changes in the cut-off Total mineral resources have decreased by grade strategy, taking into consideration 66 million tonnes, with updates to the cost an increased copper price assumption and model used in the optimisation process more changes to the geo-metallurgical model.
than offsetting the increase in copper price Mineral resources have remained used.
The 2014 resource model incorporates virtually unchanged.
information from 9,900 metres of additional drilling in 36 drill holes.
Antofagasta plc | 167 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 G PENACHO BLANCO I LOS VOLCANES EX-CONCHI The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.3% copper, which Penacho Blanco is 51% owned by the Group.
Los Volcanes is 51% owned by the Group.
when combined with credits from nickel, The cut-off grade applied to the determination The cut-off grade applied to the determination platinum, palladium and gold, is deemed of mineral resources for both oxides and of mineral resources for both oxides and appropriate for an underground operation.
Los Volcanes was In the resource table TPM Total Precious upgraded to Mineral Resources in mid 2014.
Total mineral resources have decreased by Metals refers to the sum of platinum, 4 million tonnes, with updates to the cost Total mineral resources have increased by palladium and gold values in grammes per model used in the optimisation process 45 million tonnes, with updates to the cost tonne.
The TPM value of 0.57 for the Maturi offsetting the increase in copper price used.
model used in the optimisation process only resource estimate is made up of 0.15 g tonne partially offsetting the increase in copper platinum, 0.34 g tonne palladium and H MIRADOR EX-MIRADOR SULPHIDES price used.
The TPM value of 0.30 Mirador is 100% owned by the Group.
for the Maturi Southwest resource estimate J TWIN METALS MINNESOTA LLC A portion of the Mirador oxides are subject is made up of 0.08 g tonne platinum, to an agreement between the Group and At year end the Group had a 40% interest in 0.17 g tonne palladium and 0.05 g tonne Centinela, whereby Centinela purchased the Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, gold.
The TPM value of 0.70 g tonne for rights to mine the oxide ore reserves within with the remaining 60% held by Duluth the Birch Lake resource estimate is made an identified area.
The ore reserves and Metals Limited Duluth.
In November up of0.19 g tonne platinum, 0.41 g tonne mineral resources subject to the agreement 2014 Antofagasta entered into a binding letter palladium and 0.10 g tonne gold.
The Spruce with Centinela are reported in the Centinela of agreement to acquire 100% of Duluth.
Road resource estimate does not include Cathodes section.
The cut-off grade applied The acquisition completed subsequent to the TPM values as they were not assayed for.
to the determination of mineral resources for year-end following approval from Duluths Total Mineral Resources increased by oxides is 0.15% copper and for sulphides is shareholders in January 2015.
Accordingly, 26 million tonnes, all in the Maturi deposit, 0.20% copper.
subsequent to the year-end the Group has a mostly as a result of new information from 100% interest in Duluth and as a result of this Total mineral resources have decreased by a drill campaign in the upper portion of a 100% interest in Twin Metals.
67 million tonnes, with updates to the cost the deposit being incorporated into the model used in the optimisation process The Maturi and Maturi Southwest deposits 2014 Resource Model.
65 drill holes were more than offsetting the increase in copper have been incorporated in the pre-feasibility added to the database for the 2014 mineral price used.
study completed by Twin Metals during 2014. resource estimate.
The nearby Birch Lake and Spruce Road deposits were not part of the pre-feasibility study.
Twin Metals has a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, Spruce Road and Maturi Southwest deposits, as well as a portion of the main Maturi deposit.
The prices used for the Twin Metals resource estimate remain unchanged from 2013.
168 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N K OTHER MINERAL INVENTORY In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: i In the Centinela Mining District Llano-Paleocanal is 70% owned by the Group, as part of the Centinela operation.
The Mineral Inventory of the deposit incorporating both oxide and sulphide mineralisation is estimated to be in the range of 90 to 140 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.6% to 0.4% copper.
The table below details the deposit with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, the number of drill holes and associated metres drilled, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral Deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Llano-Paleocanal 90 140 0.51 0.41 361 60,560 70.0 Total 90 140 0.51 0.41 361 60,560 ii In the Michilla District In the Michilla District there are several satellite deposits to the main Michilla ore body that have been included in the Mineral Resources Table.
However, there is at least one other deposit within a potentially economic radius of the Michilla mine: Rencoret, owned 100% by the Group.
Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral Deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8.300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8.300 iii In the El Abra District The Group has two mineral deposits within a few kilometres of the El Abra ore body, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
Los Volcanes ex-Conchi is a porphyry copper mineral deposit with oxide and sulphide mineralisation, which was upgraded to a Mineral Resource during 2014, while Brujulina is an exotic-style mineral deposit oxide mineralisation only.
The Mineral Inventory of the remaining Brujulina deposit, owned 51% by the Group, is estimated to be in the range of 50 to 80 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.65% to 0.53% copper.
Tonnes Grade Number Ownership range range drill Total interest Mineral Deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 L ANTOMIN 2 AND ANTOMIN INVESTORS The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include, among others, Penacho Blanco, Los Volcanes ex-Conchi and Brujulina see Note k iii above.
Theremaining approximately 49%of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
Further details are set out in Note 38 d to the financial statements.
