OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A reclassification between short-term and long-term inventories has 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION been made in the prior year comparative figures, to ensure that the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with classification of inventory balances is fully in line with the detailed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those mine plans.
This has resulted in a $74.4 million increase in the longparts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting term inventory balance as at 31 December 2013 from $178.3 million under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued to $252.7 million, and a corresponding $74.4 million decrease in by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS the short-term inventory balances as at 31 December 2013 from Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed by the $476.5 million to $402.1 million.
A ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in became effective in the current reporting period: assessing the Groups going concern status are set out within the Directors report.
IFRIC 21 Levies During 2014 the Group merged Minera Esperanza and Minera El IAS 32 Financial instruments presentation Tesoro into a single entity Minera Centinela.
The production of IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities copper concentrate which was previously within Minera Esperanza is now referred to as Centinela Concentrates, and the production of IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets copper cathodes which was previously within Minera El Tesoro is IAS 39 Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting referred to as Centinela Cathodes.
In the prior year comparatives the results and balances for Minera Esperanza and Minera El Tesoro have The application of these standards and interpretations effective for been combined into a single segment for Centinela, consistent with the first time in the current year has had no significant impact on the the current year presentation.
amounts reported in these financial statements.
B ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE APPLIED At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 11 amendments Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations IAS 19 amendments Defined benefit plans, employee contributions IAS 16 and 38 amendments Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 16 and 41 amendments Bearer plants IAS 27 amendments Equity method in separate financial statements IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 28 amendments Investment entities: applying the consolidation exception IAS 1 amendments Disclosure initiative Annual improvements 2010 2012 cycle Improvements to six IFRSs Annual improvements 2011 2013 cycle Improvements to four IFRSs Annual improvements 2012 2014 cycle Improvements to four IFRSs The Group is continuing to evaluate the impact of adopting these new standards and interpretations.
The Group is continuing to evaluate in detail the potential impact of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, but does not currently expect this to have a material impact.
Antofagasta plc | 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D JOINT ARRANGEMENTS value of the consideration paid or received is 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING recognised directly in equity and attributed to A joint arrangement is an arrangement of POLICIES owners of the Company.
which two or more parties have joint control.
A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION Joint arrangements are accounted depending When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, on the nature of the arrangement.
These financial statements have been a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss prepared under the historical cost convention and is calculated as the difference between i Joint ventures are accounted for using as modified by the use of fair values to i the aggregate of the fair value of the equity method in accordance with measure certain financial instruments, consideration received and the fair value of IAS28 2011 Investment in Associates and principally provisionally priced sales as any retained interest and ii the previous Joint Ventures as described in Note 2 c. explained in Note 2 f and financial derivative carrying amount of the assets including ii Joint operations are accounted contracts as explained in Note 2 y. goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and for recognising directly the assets, any non-controlling interests.
When assets of B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION obligations, revenues and expenses of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts the joint operator in the joint arrangement.
The financial statements comprise the or fair values and the related cumulative The assets, liabilities, revenues and consolidated financial statements of gain or loss has been recognised in other expenses are accounted for in accordance Antofagasta plc the Company and its comprehensive income and accumulated in with the relevant IFRS.
equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and When a Group entity transacts with its i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity accumulated in equity are accounted for as joint arrangements, profits and losses over which the Group has power to govern if the Group had directly disposed of the resulting from the transactions with the joint the operating and financial policies in relevant assets ie reclassified to profit or loss arrangements are recognised in the Groups order to obtain benefits from its activities.
or transferred directly to retained earnings as consolidated financial statements only to the The consolidated financial statements specified by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value extent of interests in the joint arrangements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, of any investment retained in the former that are not related to the Group.
expenses and cash flows of the Company subsidiary at the date when control is lost is and its subsidiaries after eliminating regarded as the fair value on initial recognition E CURRENCY TRANSLATION inter-company balances and transactions.
for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 The functional currency for each entity in the For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net Financial Instruments: Recognition and Group is determined as the currency of the assets and net earnings attributable Measurement or, when applicable, the cost primary economic environment in which it to non-controlling shareholders are on initial recognition of an investment in an operates.
Transactions in currencies other presented as Non-controlling interests associate or a jointly controlled entity.
than the functional currency of the entity are in the consolidated balance sheet and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the consolidated income statement.
Acquisitions and disposals are treated as date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and explained in Note 2 g relating to business Non-controlling interests that are present liabilities denominated in currencies other combinations and goodwill.
ownership interests and entitle their holders than the functional currency are retranslated to a proportionate share of the entitys net C INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES at year end exchange rates.
Gains and losses assets in the event of liquidation may be on retranslation are included in net profit or An associate is an entity over which the initially measured either at fair value or at loss for the period within other finance items.
Group is in a position to exercise significant the non-controlling interests proportionate influence, but not control or joint control, The presentational currency of the Group share of the recognised amounts of the through the power to participate in the and the functional currency of the Company acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice financial and operating policy decisions is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income of measurement basis is made on an of that entity.
The results and assets and statement items for entities with a functional  basis.
Other types liabilities of associates are incorporated in currency other than the US dollar are of non-controlling interests are measured at these consolidated financial statements translated into US dollars at average rates fair value or, when applicable, on the basis using the equity method of accounting.
Balance sheet items are specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent to This requires recording the investment initially translated at period-end exchange rates.
acquisition, the carrying amount of nonat cost to the Group and then, in subsequent Exchange differences on translation of the net controlling interests is the amount of those periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the assets of such entities are taken to equity and interests at initial recognition plus the noninvestment to reflect the Groups share of recorded in a separate currency translation controlling interests share of subsequent the associates results less any impairment reserve.
Cumulative translation differences changes in equity.
Total comprehensive and any other changes to the associates arising after the transition date to IFRS are income is attributed to non-controlling net assets such as dividends.
When the recognised as income or as expenses in the interests even if this results in the nonGroup loses control of a former subsidiary income statement in the period in which an controlling interests having a deficit balance.
but retains an investment in associate in operation is disposed of.
Changes in the Groups ownership interests that entity the initial carrying value of the On consolidation, exchange gains and losses in subsidiaries that do not result in the investment in associate is recorded at its which arise on balances between Group Group losing control over the subsidiaries fair value at that point.
When the Groups entities are taken to reserves where that are accounted for as equity transactions.
share of losses of an associate exceeds the balance is, in substance, part of the net The carrying amounts of the Groups interests Groups interest in that associate the Group investment in a foreign operation, ie where and the non-controlling interests are adjusted discontinues recognising its share of further settlement is neither planned nor likely to to reflect the changes in their relative losses.
Additional losses are recognised only occur in the foreseeable future.
All other interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference to the extent that the Group has incurred legal exchange gains and losses on Group balances between the amount by which the nonor constructive obligations or made payments are dealt with in the income statement.
controlling interests are adjusted and the fair on behalf of the associate.
112 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION as an asset or a liability is remeasured at Fair value adjustments and any goodwill Interest income is accrued on a time basis, subsequent reporting dates in accordance arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity by reference to the principal outstanding and with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, are treated as assets of the foreign entity and the effective interest rate applicable, which Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, translated at the period-end rate.
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated as appropriate.
future cash receipts through the expected F REVENUE RECOGNITION life of the financial asset to that assets net When a business combination is achieved Revenue represents the value of goods and carrying amount.
in stages, the Groups previously held equity services supplied to third parties during the interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair Dividend income from available-for-sale year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value value at the acquisition date ie the date when investments and associates is recognised of consideration received or receivable, and the Group obtains control and the resulting when the shareholders right to receive excludes any applicable sales tax.
gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or payment has been established.
Amounts arising from interests in the A sale is recognised when the significant G BUSINESS COMBINATIONS acquiree prior to the acquisition date that risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
ANDGOODWILL have previously been recognised in other This is generally when title and any insurance comprehensive income are reclassified to risk has passed to the customer, and the Acquisitions of businesses are accounted profit or loss where such treatment would be goods have been delivered to a contractually for using the acquisition method.
appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
agreed location or when any services have The consideration transferred in a business been provided.
combination is measured at fair value, which If the initial accounting for a business is calculated as the sum of the  is incomplete by the end of the Revenue from mining activities is recorded date fair values of the assets transferred by reporting period in which the combination at the invoiced amounts with an adjustment the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group occurs, the Group reports provisional for provisional pricing at each reporting to the former owners of the acquiree and amounts for the items for which the date, as explained below.
For copper and the equity interests issued by the Group accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional molybdenum concentrates, which are in exchange for control of the acquiree.
amounts are adjusted during the sold to smelters and roasting plants for The results of businesses acquired during measurement period see above, or further processing, the invoiced amount is the year are brought into the consolidated additional assets or liabilities are recognised, the market value of the metal payable by financial statements from the effective to reflect new information obtained about the customer, net of deductions for tolling date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, facts and circumstances that existed at the charges.
Revenue includes amounts from the liabilities and contingent liabilities of a acquisition date that, if known, would have sale of by-products.
business which can be measured reliably are affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate recorded at their provisional fair values at the Goodwill arising in a business combination sale agreements and copper cathode sale date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values are is measured as the excess of the sum of the agreements generally provide for provisional finalised within 12 months of the acquisition consideration transferred, the amount of any pricing of sales at the time of shipment, date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed non-controlling interest in the acquiree and with final pricing based on the monthly as incurred.
the fair value of the acquirers previously held average London Metal Exchange LME When the consideration transferred by equity interest in the acquiree if any over the copper price or the monthly average the Group in a business combination next identifiable assets acquired and liabilities market molybdenum price for specified includes assets or liabilities resulting from a assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition future periods.
This normally ranges from contingent consideration arrangement, the of subsidiaries is separately disclosed, while one to five months after delivery to the contingent consideration is measured at any goodwill on the acquisition of associates customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an its acquisition-date fair value and included is included within investments in equity embedded derivative which is required to be as part of the consideration transferred in accounted entities.
Internally generated separated from the host contract.
Changes in the goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair contract is the sale of metals contained in fair value of the contingent consideration values of the identifiable net assets acquired the concentrate or cathode at the provisional that qualify as measurement period exceed the sum of the consideration invoice price less tolling charges deducted, adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, transferred, the surplus is credited to the and the embedded derivative is the forward with corresponding adjustments profit or loss in the period of acquisition as a contract for which the provisional sale is against goodwill.
Measurement period bargain purchase gain.
At each reporting adjustments are adjustments that arise from date, the provisionally priced metal sales The Group often enters into earn-in additional information obtained during the together with any related tolling charges are arrangements whereby the Group measurement period which cannot exceed marked-to-market, with adjustments both acquires an interest in a project company one year from the acquisition date about gains and losses being recorded in revenue in exchange for funding exploration and facts and circumstances that existed at the in the consolidated income statement evaluation expenditure up to a specified acquisition date.
and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
level of expenditure or a specified stage Forward prices at the period end are used The subsequent accounting for changes in in the life of the project.
Funding is usually for copper concentrate and cathode sales, the fair value of the contingent consideration conditional on the achievement of key while period-end average prices are used for that do not qualify as measurement milestones by the partner.
Typically there molybdenum concentrate sales due to the period adjustments depends on how is no consideration transferred or funding absence of a futures market.
the contingent consideration is classified.
liability on the effective date of acquisition Contingent consideration that is classified of the interest in the project company and as equity is not remeasured at subsequent no goodwill is recognised on this type of reporting dates and its subsequent business combination.
settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified Antofagasta plc | 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Intangible assets acquired in a business Operational stripping costs relate to the 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING combination and recognised separately costs of extracting waste material as part of POLICIES CONTINUED from goodwill are initially recognised at their the ongoing mining process.
The ongoing The results of businesses sold during the fair value at the acquisition date which is mining and development of the Groups year are included in the consolidated financial regarded as their cost.
open-pit mines is generally performed via a statements for the period up to the effective succession of individual phases.
The costs Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible date of disposal.
Gains or losses on disposal of extracting material from an open-pit mine assets acquired in a business combination are calculated as the difference between are generally allocated between ore and are reported at cost less accumulated the sales proceeds net of expenses and waste stripping in proportion to the tonnes amortisation and accumulated impairment the net assets attributable to the interest of material extracted.
The waste stripping losses, on the same basis as intangible assets which has been sold.
Where a disposal costs are generally absorbed into inventory that are acquired separately.
represents a separate major line of business and expensed as that inventory is processed or geographical area of operations, the net An intangible asset is derecognised on and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate results attributable to the disposed entity are disposal, or when no future economic to a significant stripping campaign which shown separately in the income statement.
benefits are expected from use or disposal.
is expected to provide improved access to Gains or losses arising from derecognition an identifiable component of the ore body H EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION of an intangible asset, measured as the typically an individual phase within the EXPENDITURE difference between the net disposal overall mine plan, the costs of removing Exploration and evaluation costs, other proceeds and the carrying amount of the waste in order to improve access to that than those incurred in acquiring exploration asset, are recognised in profit or loss when part of the ore body will be capitalised within licences, are expensed in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
mining properties within property, plant and they are incurred.
The capitalised costs will then K PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT is considered to be commercially viable be amortised on a unit of production basis, normally when the project has completed in proportion to the volume of ore extracted The costs of mining properties and leases, a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a compared with the total ore contained in the which include the costs of acquiring and feasibility study has been approved all component of the pit to which the stripping developing mining properties and mineral further directly attributable pre-production campaign relates.
rights, are capitalised as property, plant and expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of equipment in the year in which they are J INTANGIBLE ASSETS pre-production expenditure ceases when incurred, when a mining project is considered commercial levels of production are achieved.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that to be commercially viable normally when are acquired separately are carried at cost less the project has completed a pre-feasibility Costs incurred in acquiring exploration accumulated amortisation and accumulated study, and the start of a feasibility study has licences are accounted for as intangible impairment losses.
Intangible assets include been approved.
The cost of property, plant assets in accordance with the policy the cost of acquiring exploration licences.
and equipment comprises the purchase in Note 2 j and are stated at cost less Amortisation is recognised on a straightprice and any costs directly attributable accumulated amortisation.
line basis over their estimated useful lives.
to bringing the asset to the location and The estimated useful life and amortisation condition necessary for it to be capable I STRIPPING COSTS method are reviewed at the end of each of operating in the manner intended.
Pre-stripping and operational stripping costs reporting period, with the effect of any Once a project has been established as are incurred in the course of the development changes in estimate being accounted for commercially viable, related development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
Intangible assets expenditure is capitalised.
This includes Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal with indefinite useful lives that are acquired costs incurred in preparing the site for mining of waste material as part of the initial separately are carried at cost less operations, including pre-stripping costs.
development of an open-pit, in order to accumulated impairment losses.
Capitalisation ceases when the mine is allow access to the ore body.
These costs capable of commercial production, with the Infrastructure assets relating to the Water are capitalised within mining properties exception of development costs which give concession are recorded within intangible within property, plant and equipment.
assets, as part of concession rights.
The capitalised costs are depreciated Concession rights also include an amount Interest on borrowings related to construction once production commences on a unit of recognised in respect of the right to use or development of projects is capitalised, production basis, in proportion to the volume those assets not recognised as their lives until such time as the assets are substantially of ore extracted in the year compared with extend substantially beyond the period of the ready for their intended use or sale which, in total proven and probable reserves for that pit concession.
Concession rights are measured the case of mining properties, is when they at the beginning of the year.
as the difference between the cost of the are capable of commercial production.
concession and the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition plus the fair value of any further assets transferred to the Group by way of concession subsequent to acquisition.
114 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION N INVESTMENT PROPERTY L DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT M IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND AMORTISATION AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE Investment property is property held to OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL earn rentals and or for capital appreciation and includes land held for a currently Property, plant and equipment is depreciated Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed for impairment undetermined future use.
The Group has over its useful life, or over the remaining life if there is any indication that the carrying elected to adopt the cost model in IAS of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
amount may not be recoverable.
If any such 40 Investment Property.
Accordingly, The major categories of property, plant and indication exists, the recoverable amount of investment property is measured initially at equipment are depreciated as follows: the asset is estimated in order to determine cost, which includes transaction costs for the i Land freehold land is not depreciated the extent of the impairment if any.
acquisition of the property and, as detailed unless the value of the land is considered Where the asset does not generate cash in Note 2 l relating to property, plant and to relate directly to a particular mining flows that are independent from other assets, equipment, is not depreciated.
operation, in which case the land is the Group estimates the recoverable amount depreciated on a straight-line basis over O INVENTORY of the cash-generating unit to which the the expected mine life.
Any intangible asset with an Inventory consists of raw materials and land is depreciated on a straight-line basis indefinite useful life is tested for impairment consumables, work-in-progress and finished over the life of the lease.
annually and whenever there is an indication goods.
Work-in-progress represents material that the asset may be impaired.
ii M ining properties mining properties, that is in the process of being converted into including capitalised financing costs, finished goods.
The conversion process for Recoverable amount is the higher of fair are depreciated on a unit of production mining operations depends on the nature of value less costs to sell and value in use.
basis, in proportion to the volume of ore the copper ore. For sulphide ores, processing In assessing value in use, the estimated extracted in the year compared with includes milling and concentrating and results future cash flows are discounted to their total proven and probable reserves at the in the production of copper concentrate.
present value, using a pre-tax discount rate beginning of the year.
For oxide ores, processing includes leaching that reflects current market assessments of of stockpiles, solution extraction and iii Buildings and infrastructure straightthe time value of money and the risks specific electrowinning and results in the production line basis over 10 to 25 years.
to the asset for which estimates of future of copper cathodes.
Finished goods consist cash flows have not been adjusted.
iv Railway track including trackside of copper concentrate containing gold and equipment straight-line basis over 20 For mining properties, estimates of future silver at Los Pelambres and Centinela and to 25 years.
cash flows are based on assumptions as copper cathodes at Centinela and Michilla.
to expected production levels, commodity Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line prices, cash costs of production and capital as a by-product.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on vi Machinery, equipment and other includes a number of restrictions on the future a weighted average basis, and net realisable assets are depreciated on a unit of cash flows that can be recognised in respect value.
Net realisable value represents production basis, in proportion to the of future restructurings and improvementestimated selling price less all estimated volume of ore material processed or related expenditure.
When calculating value costs of completion and costs to be incurred straight-line basis over 5 to 20 years.
in use, it also requires that calculations should in marketing, selling and distribution.
be based on exchange rates current at the vii A ssets under construction no Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress time of assessment.
For operations with a depreciation until asset is available is production cost and for raw materials functional currency other than the US dollar, for use.
and consumables it is purchase price.
the impairment review is conducted in the Production cost includes: viii Assets held under finance lease are relevant functional currency.
depreciated over the shorter of the lease labour costs, raw material costs and other If the recoverable amount of an asset or term and their useful life.
costs directly attributable to the extraction cash-generating unit is estimated to be and processing of ore: Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, less than its carrying amount, the carrying and adjusted if appropriate, at least annually, amount is reduced to the recoverable depreciation of plant, equipment and and changes to residual values and useful amount.
An impairment charge is recognised mining properties directly involved in the lives are accounted for prospectively.
in the income statement immediately.
production process: and Where an impairment subsequently The concession right is amortised on an appropriate portion reverses, the carrying amount is increased a straight-line basis over the life of the ofproduction overheads.
to the revised estimate of recoverable concession, or the useful life of any amount, but so that the increased carrying component part if less.
amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Antofagasta plc | 115 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Such costs arising from the installation Deferred tax assets are recognised only to 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING of plant and other site preparation work, the extent that it is probable that they will be POLICIES CONTINUED discounted to their net present value, are recovered through sufficient future taxable Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted provided and capitalised at the start of each profit.
The carrying amount of deferred and is available for further processing.
project, as soon as the obligation to incur tax assets is reviewed at each balance Costs directly attributable to the extraction such costs arises.
of ore are generally allocated as part of costs are charged against profits over the life Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that production cost in proportion to the tonnes of the mine, through depreciation of the asset are expected to apply in the period when of material extracted.
Operational stripping and unwinding or amortisation of the discount the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
costs are generally absorbed into inventory, on the provision.
Depreciation is included Deferred tax is charged or credited in the and therefore expensed as that inventory in operating costs while the unwinding of income statement, except when it relates to is processed and sold.
If ore will not be the discount is included as financing costs.
items charged or credited directly to equity, processed within 12 months of the statement Changes in the measurement of a liability in which case the deferred tax is also taken of financial position date it is included within relating to the decommissioning of plant or directly to equity.
If there is significant other site preparation work are added to, or uncertainty as to when any stockpiled ore will deducted from, the cost of the related asset Q PROVISIONS be processed it is expensed as incurred.
Provisions are recognised when the Group The costs for restoration of site damage, P TAXATION has a present obligation legal or constructive which is created on an ongoing basis during as a result of a past event, it is probable Tax expense comprises the charges or credits production, are provided for at their net that the Group will be required to settle the for the period relating to both current and present values and charged against operating obligation, and a reliable estimate can be deferred tax.
Changes in made of the amount of the obligation.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the the measurement of a liability relating to site The amount recognised as a provision is the year.
Taxable profit may differ from net profit damage created during production is charged best estimate of the consideration required to as reported in the income statement because against operating profit.
settle the present obligation at the end of the it excludes items of income or expense that reporting period, taking into account the risks S PROVISION FOR TERMINATION are taxable and deductible in different years and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
OFWATER CONCESSION and also excludes items that are not taxable When a provision is measured using the or deductible.
The liability for current tax is Under the terms of the Water concession cash flows estimated to settle the present calculated using tax rates for each entity in from ECONSSA, certain items of working obligation, its carrying amount is the present the consolidated financial statements which capital recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta value of those cash flows when the effect of have been enacted or substantively enacted are to be transferred to the state-owned the time value of money is material.
at the balance sheet date.
operator ECONSSA at the end of the When some or all of the economic benefits concession period for nil consideration.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable required to settle a provision are expected to Provision is made for the estimated net or recoverable on temporary differences ie be recovered from a third party, a receivable present value of these assets and liabilities differences between the carrying amount is recognised as an asset if it is virtually which are expected to be in existence of assets and liabilities in the financial certain that reimbursement will be received when the concession comes to an end.
statements and the corresponding tax basis and the amount of the receivable can be The unwinding of the discount is charged used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is provided R PROVISIONS FOR DECOMMISSIONING T SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS on all temporary differences with certain AND RESTORATION COSTS For cash-settled share-based payments, limited exceptions as follows: An obligation to incur decommissioning and a liability is recognised for the goods or i tax payable on undistributed earnings of restoration costs occurs when environmental services acquired, measured initially at the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures disturbance is caused by the development fair value of the liability.
At the end of each is provided except where the Group is or ongoing production of a mining property.
reporting period until the liability is settled, able to control the remittance of profits Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal and at the date of settlement, the fair value of and it is probable that there will be no closure plan and are subject to regular the liability is remeasured, with any changes remittance of past profits earned in the formal review.
in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the foreseeable future: year.
The Group currently does not have any equity share-based payments to employees ii deferred tax is not provided on the or third parties.
initial recognition of an asset or liability in atransaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
116 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION iv Borrowings loans and preference U POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Y OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS shares Interest-bearing loans and Financial assets and financial liabilities are The Group operates defined contribution bank overdrafts are initially recorded recognised on the Groups balance sheet schemes for a limited number of employees.
at the proceeds received, net of direct when the Group becomes a party to the For such schemes, the amount charged to issue costs.
They are subsequently contractual provisions of the instrument.
the income statement is the contributions measured at amortised cost using the paid or payable in the year.
i Investments Investments which effective interest method, with interest are not subsidiaries, associates or joint Employment terms may also provide for expense recognised on an effective yield ventures are initially measured at cost, payment of a severance indemnity when basis.
The effective interest method is including transaction costs.
an employment contract comes to an end.
a method of calculating the amortised This is typically at the rate of one month cost of a financial liability and of allocating I nvestments are classified as either for each year of service subject in most interest expense over the relevant period.
held for trading or available-for-sale, and cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying The effective interest rate is the rate that are normally measured at subsequent years of service and based on final salary exactly discounts estimated future cash reporting dates at fair value.
The severance indemnity obligation is payments through the expected life of the is determined in the manner described treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, financial liability, or, where appropriate, a in Note 23 b.
Investments in equity and the calculation is based on valuations shorter period.
Finance charges, including instruments that do not have a quoted performed by an independent actuary using premiums payable on settlement or market price in an active market and the projected unit credit method, which are redemption and direct issue costs, whose fair value cannot be reliably regularly updated.
The obligation recognised are accounted for on an accruals basis measured are measured at cost.
in the balance sheet represents the present using the effective interest rate method.
Securities are classified as heldvalue of the severance indemnity obligation.
Amounts are either recorded as financing for-trading when they are acquired Actuarial gains and losses are immediately costs in profit or loss or capitalised in principally for the purpose of sale in recognised in other comprehensive income.
accordance with the accounting policy the short term, and gains and losses set out in Note 2 k. Finance charges arising from changes in fair value are V CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS are added to the carrying amount of the included in profit or loss for the period.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on instrument to the extent that they are not Other investments are classified as hand, deposits held on call with banks, highly settled in the period in which they arise.
available-for-sale, and gains and losses liquid investments that are readily convertible arising from changes in fair value are T he sterling-denominated preference into known amounts of cash and which recognised directly in equity, within the shares issued by the Company carry are subject to insignificant risk of changes Fair value reserve, until the security a fixed rate of return without the in value, net of bank overdrafts which are is disposed of or is determined to be right to participate in any surplus.
Cash and cash impaired, at which time the cumulative They are accordingly classified within equivalents normally have a maturity period gain or loss previously recognised in borrowings and translated into US of90 days or less.
equity is included in profit or loss for the dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Dividends on available-for-sale Preference share dividends are included W LIQUID INVESTMENTS equity investments are recognised in within finance costs.
Liquid investments represent highly liquid the income statement when the right to current asset investments that do not v Equity instruments Equity instruments receive payment is established.
meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash issued are recorded at the proceeds ii T rade and other receivables Trade equivalents, normally because even if readily received, net of direct issue costs.
and other receivables do not generally accessible, the underlying investments have Equity instruments of the Company carry any interest and are normally an average maturity profile greater than comprise its sterling-denominated issued stated at their nominal value less any 90 days from the date first entered into.
ordinary share capital and related share impairment.
Impairment losses on trade These assets are designated as fair value premium.
As explained in Note 2 e, the receivables are recognised within an through profit or loss.
presentational currency of the Group and allowance account unless the Group the functional currency of the Company X LEASES considers that no recovery of the amount is US dollars, and ordinary share capital is possible, in which case the carrying Rental costs under operating leases are and share premium are translated into value of the asset is reduced directly.
charged to the income statement account US dollars at historical rates of exchange in equal annual amounts over the term based on dates of issue.
iii Trade and other payables Trade and ofthe lease.
other payables are generally not interestbearing and are normally stated at their Assets under finance leases are recognised nominal value.
as assets of the Group at inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest onthe remaining balance of the liability.
Antofagasta plc | 117 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of the financial asset B USEFUL ECONOMIC LIVES OF 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING is reduced by the impairment loss directly PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT POLICIES CONTINUED for all financial assets with the exception AND ORE RESERVES ESTIMATES vi Derivative financial instruments oftrade receivables.
As explained in Note 2 l, mining properties, As explained in Note 23 d, the Group including capitalised financing costs, are With the exception of available-for-sale equity uses derivative financial instruments to depreciated in proportion to the volume instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the reduce exposure to foreign exchange, ofore extracted in the year compared with amount of the impairment loss decreases interest rate and commodity price total proven and probable reserves at the and the decrease can be related objectively movements.
The Group does not use beginning of the year.
to an event occurring after the impairment such derivative instruments for trading was recognised, the previously recognised There are numerous uncertainties inherent purposes.
The Group has applied the impairment loss is reversed through profit in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 or loss immediately to the extent that the that were valid at the time of estimation may Financial Instruments: Recognition and carrying amount of the investment at the change when new information becomes Measurement.
The effective portion date the impairment is reversed does not available.
These include assumptions as to of changes in the fair value of derivative exceed what the amortised cost would grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery financial instruments that are designated have been had the impairment not been rates, commodity prices, exchange rates, and qualify as hedges of future cash recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale production costs, capital costs, processing flows have been recognised directly in equity instruments, any increase in fair and reclamation costs and discount rates.
equity, with such amounts subsequently value subsequent to an impairment loss The actual volume of ore extracted and recognised in profit or loss in the isrecognised directly in equity.
any changes in these assumptions could period when the hedged item affects affect prospective depreciation rates and profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is carrying values.
recognised immediately in profit or loss.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING Realised gains and losses on commodity JUDGEMENTS AND KEY The majority of other items of property, plant derivatives recognised in profit or loss SOURCES OF ESTIMATION and equipment are depreciated on a straightare recorded within revenue.
The time UNCERTAINTY line basis over their useful economic lives.
value element of changes in the fair value Management reviews the appropriateness Determining many of the amounts included of derivative options is excluded from ofuseful economic lives at least annually and, the designated hedging relationship, in the financial statements involves the again, any changes could affect prospective and is therefore recognised directly in use of judgement and or estimation.
depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
profit or loss within other finance items.
These judgements and estimates are based Derivatives embedded in other financial on managements best knowledge of the C IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS instruments or other host contracts are relevant facts and circumstances having As explained in Note 2 m, the Group reviews treated as separate derivatives when their regard to prior experience, but actual results the carrying value of its intangible assets and risks and characteristics are not closely may differ from the amounts included in the property, plant and equipment to determine related to those of host contracts and the financial statements.
Information about such whether there is any indication that those host contracts are not carried at fair value.
judgements and estimates is included in the assets are impaired.
In making assessments Changes in fair value are reported in profit principal accounting policies in Note 2 or the for impairment, assets that do not generate or loss for the period.
The treatment other notes to the financial statements, and independent cash flows are allocated to an of embedded derivatives arising from the key areas are set out below.
provisionally-priced commodity sales The recoverable amount of those assets, A CAPITALISATION OF PROPERTY, contracts is set out in further detail in orCGU, is measured at the higher of their PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND OF Note 2 f relating to revenue.
fairvalue less costs to sell and value in use.
PROJECT COSTS vii I mpairment of financial assets As explained in Note 2 k the costs of Management necessarily applies its Financial assets, other than those at fair developing mining properties are capitalised judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, value through profit or loss, are assessed as property, plant and equipment in the year inestimating the probability, timing and value for indicators of impairment at each in which they are incurred, when the mining of underlying cash flows and in selecting balance sheet date.
Financial assets project is considered to be commercially appropriate discount rates to be applied are impaired where there is objective viable.
Management reviews amounts within the value in use calculation.
The key evidence that as a result of one or capitalised to ensure that the treatment assumptions are set out in Note 2 m. more events that occurred after the of that expenditure as capital rather than Subsequent changes to CGU allocation, initial recognition of the financial asset operating expenditure is reasonable, in licensing status, reserves and resources, the estimated future cash flows of particular in respect of the commercial price assumptions or other estimates and the investment have been impacted.
Commercial viability assumptions in the value in use calculation For loans and receivables the amount of is normally considered to be demonstrable could impact the carrying value of the the impairment is the difference between when the project has completed a prerespective assets.
the assets carrying value and the present feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility value of estimated future cash flows, study has been approved.
discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
118 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION Development of the Antucoya project was E DEFERRED TAXATION For management purposes, the Group is temporarily suspended in December 2012 organised into three business divisions As explained in Note 2 p, deferred tax while a review of the project was undertaken.
based on their products Mining, Railway is not provided for future tax payable on An impairment review was performed in and other transport services and the undistributed earnings where the Group is respect of the project as at 31 December Water concession.
The mining division able to control the remittance of profits and it 2012, and as a consequence an impairment is split further for management reporting is probable that there will be no remittance of of $500 million was recognised in respect of purposes to show results by mine and past profits earned in the foreseeable future.
the projects assets at that date.
Los Pelambres, Management uses its judgement review of the carrying value of the projects Centinela and Michilla are all operating mines in estimating the probability of such assets was performed during 2014, which and Antucoya is a development project.
These are based on Group indicated that no further impairment or Los Pelambres produces primarily copper forecasts and include assumptions as to reversal of the earlier impairment was concentrate and molybdenum as a byfuture profits and cash flows which depend appropriate.
The recoverable amount in product.
Centinela produces primarily copper on several factors including commodity the impairment review was determined by concentrate containing gold as a by-product prices, operating costs, production levels, a value in use calculation prepared using and copper cathodes.
Michilla produces capital expenditures, interest costs, managements forecasts as to capital copper cathodes.
The transport division debt repayment and tax rates and cash expenditure, future commodity prices, provides rail cargo based in Chile and Bolivia requirements which may also depend on operating costs and production volumes.
and road cargo based in Chile together with several factors including future dividend Changes in these forecasts could have a a number of ancillary services based in Chile.
A change in the assumptions used significant positive or negative impact on the The water division produces and distributes or in the estimate as to the probability estimated recoverable amount.
The present potable water to domestic customers and that past profits will be remitted would value of the forecast future cash flows was untreated water to industrial customers in impact the deferred tax charge and balance calculated using a post-tax real discount rate Chiles Antofagasta Region.
and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Corporate and D PROVISIONS FOR other items comprises costs incurred by 4 SEGMENT INFORMATION DECOMMISSIONING AND SITE the Company, Antofagasta Minerals, the RESTORATION COSTS The Groups reportable segments are Groups mining corporate centre and other as follows: As explained in Note 2 r, provision is entities that are not allocated to any individual made, based on net present values, for business segment.
Consistent with its Los Pelambres decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs internal management reporting, the Groups Centinela as soon as the obligation arises following corporate and other items are included within the development or ongoing production the mining division.
The provision is Management monitors the operating results Antucoya based on a closure plan prepared with of business segments separately for the theassistance of external consultants.
Exploration and evaluation purpose of making decisions about resources Management uses its judgement and to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Railway and other transport services experience to provide for and in the case of Segment performance is evaluated based on Water concession capitalised decommissioning costs amortise the operating profit of each of the segments.
these estimated costs over the life of the Corporate and other items mine.
The ultimate cost of decommissioning and site rehabilitation is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions established which would affect future financial results.
Operating profit excludes the share ofnet loss from associates and joint venture of $4.1 million year ended 31 December 2013 net loss of $14.4 million.
ii I nter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $0.4 million year ended 31 December 2013 $2.1 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $7.3 million year ended 31 December 2013 $7.2 million and after eliminating sales to the Railway and other transport services of $0.2 million year ended 31 December 2013 $0.2 million.
iii R evenue includes the effect of both final pricing and mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 5. iv R evenue includes a realised gain at Michilla of $18.3 million year ended 31 December 2013 gain of $25.2 million and a realised gain atCentinela of $0.1 million year ended 31 December 2013 gain of $0.2 million relating to commodity derivatives.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 23 d. v T he copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 5. vii T he effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
viii T he assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes $78.3 million year ended 31 December 2013 $91.9 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and $8.8 million year ended 31 December 2013 $6.7 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International S. A. ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of the Corporate and other items segment includes $24.5 million year ended 31 December 2013 $24.4 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A. an energy company which operates a wind farm in Chile, $11.2 million year ended 31 December 2013 $1.1 million relating to the Groups 50.1% interest in the Energia Andina joint venture and a negative investment of $0.4 million relating to the Groups 50% interest in the Tethyan Copper joint venture.
The assets of Los Pelambres includes $8.3 million year ended 31 December 2013 $51.9 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA which is constructing a hydroelectric project in Chile.
Further details of these investments are set out in Note 16. ix A s explained in Note 16, the Group holds a 40% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, which until July 2014 was accounted for as a subsidiary as the Group exercised control over the company.
In July 2014 the Group lost its ability to control Twin Metals and accordingly the company ceased to be a subsidiary of the Group, and has been accounted for as an associate from that point.
This disposal of the investment in subsidiary and the recognition of an interest in an associate at fair value resulted in a gain of $28.6 million shown above within Gains on disposals within the Corporate and other items segment.
An impairment charge of $26.3 million has been recognised in respect of Duluth shares as set out in Note 8.
Antofagasta plc | 121 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED B ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES Revenue by product 2014 2013 $m $m Copper Los Pelambres 2,348.6 2,821.0 Centinela concentrates 1,073.8 1,121.7 Centinela cathodes 631.9 747.4 Michilla 335.4 307.9 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 182.8 180.3 Gold Los Pelambres 80.5 77.0 Centinela concentrates 256.3 305.5 Silver Los Pelambres 51.7 51.1 Centinela concentrates 23.7 27.2 Total Mining 4,984.7 5,639.1 Railway and transport services 180.8 196.6 Water concession 124.9 135.9 5,290.4 5,971.6 Revenue by location of customer 2014 2013 $m $m Europe United Kingdom 8.2 15.8 Switzerland 138.5 143.9 Spain 160.6 208.2 Germany 146.1 146.4 Rest of Europe 86.6 232.4 Latin America Chile 340.2 375.3 Rest of Latin America 180.9 186.4 North America United States 133.7 320.1 Asia Japan 1,965.4 1,984.5 China 1,253.1 1,423.9 Rest of Asia 877.1 934.7 5,290.4 5,971.6 Information about major customers In the year ended 31 December 2014 the Groups mining revenues included $970.0 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenues year ended 31 December 2013 one large customer representing $1,035.8 million.
Non-current assets by location of assets 2014 2013 $m $m Chile 8,934.8 8,036.8 Bolivia 30.9 37.0 USA 67.4 94.7 Other 0.6 1.3 9,033.7 8,169.8 The above non-current assets disclosed by location of assets exclude financial instruments, available-for-sale investments and deferred tax assets.
122 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5 REVENUES An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Sales of goods 5,117.0 5,782.8 Rendering of services 173.4 188.8 Group revenue 5,290.4 5,971.6 Other operating income included within net operating costs 25.9 18.7 Investment income 18.4 12.6 Total revenue 5,334.7 6,002.9 Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after shipment to the customer.
The provisional pricing mechanism within the sale agreements is an embedded derivative under IFRS.
Gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end month average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market in the market price references for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
In addition to mark-to-market and final pricing adjustments, revenue also includes realised gains and losses relating to derivative commodity instruments.
Details of these realised gains or losses are shown in the tables below.
Further details of derivative commodity instruments in place at the period end are given in Note 23.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges, as shown in the tables below.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Los Los Los Pelambres Centinela Centinela Michilla Pelambres Centinela Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,642.5 1,226.8 640.6 322.0 80.4 267.8 213.7 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 27.1 8.8 1.0 0.1 4.5 1.2 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 27.7 9.8 1.2 0.3 0.4 2.0 0.2 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 54.8 18.6 0.2 0.2 0.4 2.5 1.4 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 29.8 19.7 7.7 4.3 11.7 15.2 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 45.5 19.6 1.3 0.4 1.8 2.0 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 75.3 39.3 9.0 4.7 13.5 17.2 Total pricing adjustments 130.1 57.9 8.8 4.9 0.4 11.0 15.8 Realised gains on commodity derivatives 0.1 18.3 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,512.4 1,168.9 631.9 335.4 80.8 256.8 197.9 Tolling charges 163.8 95.1 0.3 0.5 15.1 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,348.6 1,073.8 631.9 335.4 80.5 256.3 182.8 Antofagasta plc | 123 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 REVENUES CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2013 Los Los Los Pelambres Centinela Centinela Michilla Pelambres Centinela Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,042.9 1,237.3 750.0 285.9 82.7 331.3 210.0 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.4 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 31.5 14.4 1.1 0.2 4.1 5.6 0.1 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 33.3 13.9 1.3 0.3 4.1 4.4 0.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 72.8 37.1 5.1 3.4 1.4 15.8 14.9 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 27.1 8.8 1.0 0.1 4.5 1.1 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 45.7 28.3 4.1 3.5 1.4 20.3 16.0 Total pricing adjustments 79.0 42.2 2.8 3.2 5.5 24.7 15.5 Realised gains on commodity derivatives 0.2 25.2 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,963.9 1,195.1 747.4 307.9 77.2 306.6 194.5 Tolling charges 142.9 73.4 0.2 1.1 14.2 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,821.0 1,121.7 747.4 307.9 77.0 305.5 180.3 i Copper concentrate The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to five months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2014 sales totalling 199,200 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $2.86 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.01 lb.
At 31 December 2013 sales totalling 172,000 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.34 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.25 lb.
ii Copper cathodes The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2014, sales totalling 13,800 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $2.88 lb compared withan average provisional invoice price of $2.94 lb.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 13,500 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.34 lb compared withan average provisional invoice price of $3.31 lb.
iii Gold concentrates The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2014, sales totalling 81,600 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $1,186 oz compared with an average provisional invoice price of $1,209 oz.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 52,800 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $1,189 oz compared with an average provisional invoice price of $1,274 oz.
124 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION iv Molybdenum concentrate The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2014, sales totalling 1,900 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $9.0 lb compared withan average provisional invoice price of $9.4 lb.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 1,800 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $9.7 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $10.0 lb.
As detailed above, the effects of gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue inthe income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The effect of mark-to-market adjustments on the balance sheet at the end ofeach period are as follows: Effect on debtors of year end mark-tomarket adjustments 2014 2013 $m $m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 45.5 27.1 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 2.0 1.1 Centinela copper concentrate 19.6 8.8 Centinela gold concentrate 1.8 4.5 Centinela copper cathodes 1.3 1.0 Michilla copper cathodes 0.4 0.1 70.6 31.2 6 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Operating profit from subsidiaries and total profit from operations and associates and joint ventures is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Group revenue 5,290.4 5,971.6 Cost of sales 2,932.8 2,859.5 Gross profit 2,357.6 3,112.1 Administrative and distribution expenses 485.8 563.0 Closure provision 7.4 71.0 Severance charges 17.2 16.0 Exploration and evaluation cost 167.5 274.9 Other operating income 25.9 18.7 Other operating expenses 80.7 33.8 Operating profit from subsidiaries 1,639.7 2,172.1 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 4.1 14.4 Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 1,635.6 2,157.7 Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting: 2014 2013 $m $m Foreign exchange gains losses included in net finance costs 4.6 2.9 included in income tax expense 0.4 0.4 Amortisation of intangible asset included in cost of sales 10.9 11.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 589.0 496.7 assets held under finance leases 6.1 9.3 Property and equipment written-off 6.3 23.0 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 2,006.5 2,035.1 Employee benefit expense 462.8 418.7 Auditors remuneration audit and audit-related services 1.2 1.2 non-audit services 0.1 0.3 Antofagasta plc | 125 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2014 2013 $000 $000 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 229 235 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 270 285 the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 301 309 Total audit fees 800 829 Audit-related services 437 420 Total fees for audit and audit-related services 1,237 1,249 Other non-audit fees Tax compliance services 17 22 Other taxation advisory services 50 Other services 105 193 Total other non-audit service fees 122 265 Total auditors remuneration 1,359 1,514 Audit-related services of $0.4 million in 2014 $0.4 million in 2013 relate mainly to reviewing of the half-yearly financial report pursuant tolegislation, training support in respect to IFRS IFRIC 4 and IAS 39 and other audit-related assurance services.
Other services of $0.1 million in 2014 relates mainly to an evaluation of the risk management process $0.2 million in 2013 mainly related toanevaluation of the risk management process.
Details of Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 80.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
7 EMPLOYEES A AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2014 2013 Number Number Los Pelambres 925 945 Centinela 2,108 1,909 Michilla 688 792 Antucoya 463 199 Exploration and evaluation 52 56 Corporate and other employees Chile 380 262 United Kingdom 8 9 Other 36 49 Mining 4,660 4,221 Railway and other transport services 1,575 1,565 Water concession 374 312 6,609 6,098 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed bythe Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates and joint ventures.
iii T he average number of employees includes Non-Executive Directors.
126 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION B AGGREGATED REMUNERATION The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Wages and salaries 478.6 421.6 Social security costs 24.2 17.6 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 17.1 16.8 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 5.8 1.7 525.7 457.7 During 2014, the amount relating to Minera Antucoya of $39.9 million $20.5 million in 2013 on wages, salaries and social security cost and$0.1 million $0.8 million in 2013 of severance charge has been capitalised.
C KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 18.4 19.0 Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 0.6 0.6 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 3.7 1.3 22.7 20.9 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on pages 91.
8 NET FINANCE EXPENSE 2014 2013 $m $m Investment income Interest income 15.8 9.0 Fair value through profit or loss 2.6 3.6 18.4 12.6 Interest expense Interest expense 44.4 61.8 Preference dividends 0.2 0.2 44.6 62.0 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 5.1 13.5 Unwinding of discount on provisions 9.1 14.2 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 26.3 Foreign exchange 4.6 2.9 35.9 24.8 Net finance expense 62.1 74.2 At 31 December 2014 an expense of $27.4 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Antucoya was capitalised at31 December 2013 $6.4.
As at 31 December 2014 the Group held a 17.2% stake in Duluth Metals Limited Duluth, accounted for as an available-for-sale investment.
As at 31 December 2014 Duluth held a 60% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, with the Group holding the remaining 40% interest in Twin Metals.
As disclosed in Note 36, in November 2014 Antofagasta entered into a binding letter of agreement to acquire 100% of Duluth.
The acquisition completed subsequent to the year-end following approval from Duluths shareholders in January 2015.
Movements in the fair value of the available-for-sale investment in Duluth had previously been recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The agreed acquisition terms indicated a final fixed value for the Duluth shares, and that there had therefore been an impairment in the value of the Duluth shares to this amount.
Accordingly, an impairment charge of $26.3 million has been recognised in respect of this availablefor-sale investment, with fair value losses previously recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income being transferred to the income statement and recognised within this impairment loss.
This impairment change is largely offset by the related $28.6 million disposal gain in respect of the temporary loss of control of the Twin Metals project as set out in Note 16.
The fair value through profit or loss line represents the fair value gains relating to liquid investments.
Antofagasta plc | 127 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 TAXATION The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2014 2013 $m $m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 377.6 382.6 Mining tax royalty 71.9 90.5 Withholding tax 279.3 208.0 Exchange losses on corporate tax balances 0.4 0.4 729.2 681.5 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 11.7 72.4 Adjustment to deferred tax attributable to changes in tax rates 220.6 Mining tax royalty 7.2 8.7 Withholding tax provision 222.5 81.1 6.4 162.2 Total tax charge 722.8 843.7 The rate of first category ie corporate tax in Chile is currently 21% 2013 20%.
On 29 September 2014 a significant reform of the Chilean system was enacted into law.
The 21% rate for 2014 applies retrospectively with effect from 1 January 2014.
From 2017 two alternative taxation systems will apply either the partially-integrated system or the attributable system.
The default position forthe Groups operating companies is the partially-integrated system.
The companies can each elect to apply the attributable system, provided there is unanimous agreement from that companys shareholders.
Under the partially-integrated system the corporate tax rate will be 25.5% in 2017 and 27% from 2018 onwards.
The Companys shareholders will pay withholding tax based on the cash distributions made by the company, as with the current tax system.
If the Companys shareholders are not tax resident in countries with applicable tax treaties with Chile the withholding tax rate will be 17.45%, and so if the Company distributes all of its earnings the total corporate and withholding tax burden will be 44.45%.
If the companys shareholders are tax resident in countries with applicable tax treaties with Chile the withholding tax will be 8%, and so if the company distributes all of its earnings the total corporate andwithholding tax burden will be 35%.
Under the attributable system the corporate tax rate will be 25% from 2017 onwards.
The Companys shareholders must pay withholding based on the profits earned by the Company in the period, rather than based on cash distributions, at a rate of 10%.
The total tax burden will therefore be 35%.
In order for any of the Groups operating companies to apply the attributable system rather than the default partially-integrated system, that companys shareholders must make a unanimous election to the Chilean Revenue Service by November 2016.
The attributable system will then apply to that company for 5 years before it is possible to make a further election to move to the partially-integrated system if the company does not wish to continue with the attributable system at that point.
The Groups deferred tax balances have been recalculated using the new tax rates which are expected to apply in the future periods when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
Given that the partially integrated system is the default system for the Groups operating companies, and is the system which will apply unless the companies shareholders make a unanimous election to adopt the attributable system, the partially integrated system rates have been used when recalculating the deferred tax balances.
This has resulted in an increase in the net deferred tax liabilities during 2014 of $220.6 million, which has been reflected via a deferred tax charge in the income statement.
This has resulted in a total effective tax rate for the Group in 2014 of 45.9%.
Excluding this deferred tax charge, the effective tax rate for the Group in 2014 would have been 31.9%.
The impact on net earnings of this deferred tax charge is $142.2 million and the impact on 2014 earnings per share is 14.4 cents per share.
The Groups mining operations are also subject to a mining tax royalty.
From 1 January 2013 production from Los Pelambres, the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at Centinela Cathodes and Michilla have been subject to the mining tax at a rate of 4% applied to taxable operating profit, and Centinela Concentrates has been subject to a rate of 5%.
Production from the Tesoro North-East pit and the run-of-mine processing at Centinela Cathodes has been subject to a rate of 5-14% of taxable operating profit based on a sliding scale with minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with an operating profit margin of below 35% and maximum rate of 14% applied to operations with an operating profit margin above 85%.
128 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on any remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax isprovided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category ie corporate tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
2014 2013 $m % $m % Profit before tax 1,573.5 2,083.5 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 21% 2013 20% 330.4 21.0 416.7 20.0 Tax effect of share of results of associates and joint ventures 0.9 0.1 2.9 0.1 Effect of increase in first category tax rates on deferred tax balances 220.6 14.0 Items not subject to or deductible from first category tax 34.6 2.2 35.4 1.7 Royalty 79.1 5.0 99.2 4.8 Withholding taxes 56.8 3.6 289.1 13.9 Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 722.8 45.9 843.7 40.5 The tax charge for 2014 was $722.8 million and the effective tax rate was 45.9%.
This rate varied from the standard rate comprising first category tax principally due to the deferred tax charge of $220.6 million reflecting the increase in tax rates as a result of the Chilean tax reform, the effect of items not deductible from first category tax mainly corporate items which principally comprise exploration and evaluation costs, awithholding tax charge of $56.8 million and the effect of the mining tax which resulted in a charge of $79.1 million.
In 2013 the total charge was $843.7 million, with an overall effective tax rate of 40.5% compared with the statutory rate of corporate tax of 20%.
The effective rate of corporate tax was 21.8%, principally due to the impact of exploration expenditure in particular in countries outside of Chile which did not give rise to tax credits.
In addition, the overall effective tax rate reflects the Chilean mining tax charge of $99.2 million and the withholding tax charge of $289.1 million.
10 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2014 2013 $m $m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings 459.8 659.6 2014 2013 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2014 2013 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 46.6 66.9 Basic earnings per share are calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Antofagasta plc | 129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 DIVIDENDS Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2014 2013 2014 2013 US cents US cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 848.8 123.2 86.1 12.5 special 764.1 77.5 848.8 887.3 86.1 90.0 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 115.4 87.7 11.7 8.9 115.4 87.7 11.7 8.9 964.2 975.0 97.8 98.9 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore notbeen included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 US cents US cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 96.6 848.8 9.8 86.1 96.6 848.8 9.8 86.1 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2014 including the interim dividend of 21.5 cents per share or $212.0 million 2013 95.0 cents per share or $936.5 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 8 and amounted to $0.2 million 2013$0.2 million.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend of 9.8 cents will be paid on 22 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register atthe close of business on 24 April 2015.
Shareholders can elect on or before 27 April 2015 to receive this interim dividend in US Dollars, Pounds sterling or Euro, and the exchange rate to be applied to interim dividends to be paid in Pounds sterling or Euro will be set as soon asreasonably practicable after that date which is currently anticipated to be on 30 April 2015.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 870 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors report.
130 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Total intangible concession right Cost $m At 1 January 2013 266.4 Additions Foreign currency exchange difference 22.7 At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 243.7 Additions 14.1 Foreign currency exchange difference 24.4 At 31 December 2014 233.4 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2013 108.8 Charge for the year 11.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 9.8 At 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2014 110.7 Charge for the year 10.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 6.8 At 31 December 2014 114.8 Net book value At 31 December 2014 118.6 At 31 December 2013 133.0 The concession right relates to the 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile which the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. acquired in December 2003 and any other subsequent additions or acquisitions subject to the terms of the concession.
This intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
The decrease in the value of pledged assets compared with 2013 reflects the release of guarantees relating to the Centinela project financing during 2014.
At 31 December 2014 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to$253.2 million 2013 $842.8 million.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was $2.5 million in 2014 2013 $0.5 million.
At 31 December 2014 $26.4 million 2013 $39.9 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Michilla has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment or inventory, and accordingly is excluded from the depreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 4 a.
132 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 14 INVESTMENT PROPERTY 2014 2013 Cost $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 3.3 3.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.7 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 2.6 3.3 Investment property represents the Groups forestry properties, which are held for long-term potential and accordingly classified as investment property and held at cost as permitted by IAS 40.
The fair value of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2014 was $11.0 million 2013 $11.0 million, based on an independent valuation carried out during 2008 by Gabriel Durn, who is not connected with the Group.
Mr. Durn is a Forestry Engineer, Valuer and Assessor of forestry properties for Banco Itau in Chile, with extensive experience of valuation in the region where the assets are located.
The valuation was based on market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Direct operating expenses principally ongoing maintenance costs arising on these properties amounted to $0.1 million 2013 $0.2 million.
15 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The principal subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Antofagasta plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc UK Chile Railway 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited UK Chile Investment 100% Antofagasta Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Minerals Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile Mining 60% Minera Centinela Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Michilla S. A. Chile Chile Mining 99.9% Minera Antucoya Limitada Chile Chile Mining 70% Antofagasta Minerals Canada Canada Canada Mining 100% Anaconda Peru Peru Peru Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Australia Pty Australia Australia Mining 100% Antofagasta Services Limited UK UK Group services 100% Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Agency Chile Chile Railway 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile Road transport 100% Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Bolivia Bolivia Railway 50% Forestal S. A. Chile Chile Forestry 100% The Group exercises control over the Board of Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. and accordingly, this investment is treated as a subsidiary and is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Antofagasta plc | 133 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Inversiones El Alto Twin Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI Arrayn Maipo Metals Andina Copper Total Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 91.9 6.7 24.4 51.9 1.1 0.8 175.2 106.5 Capital contribution 2.6 2.8 7.7 8.5 21.6 81.2 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 2.0 1.7 42.3 42.0 1.9 Fair value of investment in associate upon reclassification from subsidiary 67.4 67.4 Share of net profit loss before tax 10.7 0.7 0.6 3.5 2.8 2.4 8.1 1.2 11.5 Share of tax 4.3 0.6 0.2 2.2 2.9 2.9 Share of income loss from associates 6.4 0.1 0.8 1.3 2.8 2.4 8.1 4.1 14.4 Dividends received 20.0 20.0 Balance at the end of the year 78.3 8.8 24.5 8.3 67.4 11.2 0.4 198.1 175.2 The investments which are included in the $198.1 million balance at 31 December 2014 are set out below: INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES i T he Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant operating in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii The Groups 30% interest in El Arrayn, which operates an 115MW wind-farm project, which entered into operation in June 2014.
The Group has 20-year power purchase agreements with El Arrayn for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
During the year the Group contributed $2.6 million 2013 nil.
iv The Groups interest in Alto Maipo SPA Alto Maipo, which will develop, construct, own and operate two run-of-river hydroelectric power stations located in the upper section of the Maipo River, approximately 50 kilometres to the southeast of Santiago, with a total installed capacity of 531MW.
In July 2013, the Group exercised an option to acquire a 40% interest in Alto Maipo for a consideration of $50.2 million, and is responsible for its share of development costs.
During 2013 the Group made capital contributions of $2.4 million, with no further contributions made during 2014, resulting in a cumulative equity investment as at 31 December 2013 of $52.6 million.
Alto Maipo has used derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements in relation to the project financing and foreign exposure.
A fair value loss of $42.3 million 2013 $0.4 million loss was recognised in relation to the mark-to-market of these derivative financial instruments with this amount deferred in reserves as it forms part of a designated cash flow hedging relationship.
During the year the Group provided $105.4 million of funding 2013 $47.0 million to Alto Maipo.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December 2014 was $152.4 million 2013 $47.0 million representing loan financing with an interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 4.25%.
v T he Groups 40% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, which is seeking to develop a copper-nickel-PGM deposit in northeastern Minnesota.
The remaining 60% interest in Twin Metals is held by Duluth Metals Limited Duluth as at 31 December 2014.
Under the terms of the participation agreement with Duluth, prior to July 2014 Antofagasta had exercised control over Twin Metals and accordingly consolidated Twin Metals as a 40%-owned subsidiary.
In July 2014 the Group terminated its option to acquire an additional 25% stake in Twin Metals, which resulted in the Group losing its ability to control Twin Metals under the terms of the participation agreement, with Duluth taking control over Twin Metals at that point.
Accordingly, from July 2014 Twin Metals ceased to be a subsidiary of the Group, and has been accounted for as an associate from that point.
The initial carrying value of the investment in associate recognised at July 2014 has been recorded at its fair value of $67.4 million.
This effective disposal of the investment in subsidiary, and its replacement with an investment in associate, resulted in a gain of $28.6 million, reflecting the difference between the $67.4 million initial fair value of the investment in associate recognised at July 2014 and $38.8 million reflecting the Groups 40% share of the book value of Twin Metals net assets derecognised at that point.
As shown in Note 3, this gain has been recorded within Gains on disposals within the Corporate and other items segment.
This gain on disposal is largely offset by the related $26.3 million impairment charge in respect of the available-for-sale investment relating to Duluth Metals Limited, included within Other finance items as set out in Note 8.
Between July 2014 and the year-end the Group provided $2.8 million of funding to Twin Metals.
As set out in Note 36 in November 2014 Antofagasta entered into a binding letter of agreement to acquire 100% of Duluth.
Accordingly, subsequent to the year-end the Group has a 100% interest in Duluth and as a result of this a 100% interest in Twin Metals.
Accordingly, the Group will consolidate Twin Metals as a 100% owned subsidiary from 2015.
134 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES vi The Groups 50.1% 2013 60% interest in Energia Andina, which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada Origin for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
vii The Groups 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan, which is now subject to international arbitration as set out in Note 35 below.
Summarised financial information for the associates and joint ventures is as follows: Inversiones El Alto Energa Tethyan Twin Hornitos ATI Arrayn Maipo Andina Copper Metals Total Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 20.3 20.2 9.5 6.5 9.2 5.4 3.9 75.0 93.6 Current assets 55.3 13.6 8.6 2.2 0.3 0.2 0.6 80.8 138.9 Non-current assets 316.9 128.2 290.2 560.1 12.9 168 1,476.3 867.2 Currents liabilities 42.6 11.9 15.0 54.6 0.3 6.2 3.1 133.6 154.0 Non-current liabilities 154.2 120.7 223.7 493.4 0.3 0.3 1.0 993.6 498.1 Revenue 154.6 39.7 18.6 212.9 219.3 Profit loss after tax 16.4 0.3 2.9 3.3 1.0 16.2 7.4 14.0 9.4 Other comprenhensive income 1.9 5.77 105.3 109.2 5.2 Total comprehensive income 16.4 2.2 8.6 108.6 1.0 16.2 7.4 123.2 4.2 NOTES TO THE SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION i The summarised financial information is based on the amounts included in the IFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture ie 100% of the results or balances of the associate or joint venture, rather than the Groups proportionate share, after the Groups fair value adjustments.
17 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS 2014 2013 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 16.6 44.5 Additions 5.9 2.1 Movement in fair value 6.1 28.2 Foreign currency exchange differences 0.8 1.8 Balance at the end of the year 15.6 16.6 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The fair value of all equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
18 INVENTORIES 2014 2013 $m $m Current: Raw materials and consumables 164.7 201.3 Work-in-progress 136.7 140.3 Finished goods 67.9 60.5 369.3 402.1 Non-current: Work-in-progress 247.8 252.7 247.8 252.7 Total 617.1 654.8 Non-current work-in-progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Inventories with a carrying amount of nil have been pledged as security for the Antucoya project financing 2013 $144.9 million for the Centinela project financing.
Antofagasta plc | 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Due in one year Due after one year Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade debtors 545.6 752.8 0.5 0.5 546.1 753.3 Other debtors 264.7 151.8 239.0 180.3 503.7 332.1 810.3 904.6 239.5 180.8 1,049.8 1,085.4 The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
Many other significant trade receivables aresecured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 37 days 2013 45 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect ofprovisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing.
Where these have resulted increditbalances, theyhave been reclassified to trade creditors.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 5.6 6.1 Charge for the year 0.2 1.4 Amounts written off 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 0.4 1.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.5 0.3 Balance at the end of the year 4.9 5.6 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due Up to 3 months 3-6 months More than nor impaired past due pastdue 6months past due Total $m $m $m $m $m 2014 1,035.4 7.5 1.1 5.8 1,049.8 2013 1,071.9 7.4 2.3 3.8 1,085.4 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
At 31 December 2014, the other debtors include $28.4 million 2013 $13.6 million relating to prepayments.
20 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUID INVESTMENTS The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was comprised of: 2014 2013 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 845.4 613.7 Liquid investments 1,529.1 2,071.4 2,374.5 2,685.1 At 31 December 2014 and 2013 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m US dollars 2,065.3 2,505.2 Chilean pesos 307.7 175.0 Australian dollars 0.3 1.3 Sterling 0.2 1.0 Other 1.0 2.6 2,374.5 2,685.1 Details of cross-currency swaps in place at the end of the year are given in Note 23 d ii.
136 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 21 BORROWINGS A ANALYSIS BY TYPE OF BORROWING Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2014 2013 Notes $m $m Los Pelambres Corporate loans 1 87.2 222.7 Short-term loan 2 206.0 Finance leases 3 12.5 17.9 Centinela Project financing senior debt 4 884.1 593.2 Shareholder loan subordinated debt 5 167.0 190.7 Corporate loans 6 131.5 Finance leases 7 0.1 0.9 Antucoya Project financing senior debt 8 572.7 Shareholder loan subordinated debt 9 241.7 171.6 Finance leases 10 1.1 1.8 Corporate and other items Finance leases 11 29.7 35.6 Railway and other transport services Long-term loans 12 148.6 Finance leases 13 3.2 Loans from customers 0.2 Water concession Long-term loan 14 14.6 Andino Bonds 15 3.0 3.0 Short-term loans 16 1.5 1.5 Preference shares 17 3.1 3.3 Total 2,376.1 1,373.9 1 C orporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
These loans have a remaining term of three years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus margins between 0.9-1.6%.
2 Short-term loans are US dollar denominated, comprise a working capital loan for an average period of one year and have an interest of LIBOR six-months rate plus margins between 0.05-0.16%.
3 Finance leases at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated and comprising $12.5 million at fixed rate of 5.48% with remaining duration of three years.
4 S enior debt at Centinela is US dollar denominated and comprises $884.1 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of five years and have an interest rate ofLIBOR six-months rate plus 1%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2014 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Centinela was $140 million.
5 T his balance includes long-term subordinated debt, is US dollar denominated, provided to Centinela by Marubeni Corporation with a duration of seven years and weighted average interest rate ofLIBOR six-months plus 3.75%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Centinela has been eliminated on consolidation.
6 C entinela prepaid a loan agreement by $131.5 million during 2014.
7 F inance leases at Centinela are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of one year and with an average interest fixed rate at approximately 1.3%.
8 S enior debt at Antucoya is US dollar denominated, comprises $572.7 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 12 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR 180 days plus 1.9%.
9 T his balance includes long-term subordinated debt, is US dollar denominated, provided to Antucoya by Marubeni with duration of 12 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 3.65%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Antucoya has been eliminated on consolidation.
10 F inance leases at Antucoya are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of one year and with an average interest fixed rate at approximately LIBOR three-months plus 2.89%.
11 F inance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento ie inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 13 years and fixed rate with an average interest rate of 5.29%.
12 L ong-term loans at Railway and other transport services are US dollar denominated, and mainly comprise a loan for $148.6 million with a duration of five years and with an interest rate of LIBOR six-months plus 0.48%.
At 31 December 2014 the current notional amount hedged of the longterm debt at Railway and other transport services was $150.0 million.
13 F inance leases at Railway and other transport services are Chilean pesos denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of three years and with a fixed interest rate 4.8%.
14 T he long-term loan at ADASA is denominated in Unidades fide Fomento ie inflation-linked Chilean pesos with a remaining duration of five years and a fixed interest rate of 1.9%.
15 A ndino includes a balance of $3.0 million related with bonds issued in the Bolivian stock market to refinance short-term loans with a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and duration of one year.
16 S hort-term loans at Andino are US dollar denominated, comprise $1.5 million from local banks, with an average duration of six months and with a fixed interest rate of 5%.
17 T he preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were two million shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2014.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
Antofagasta plc | 137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 BORROWINGS CONTINUED B ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY CURRENCY The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: 2014 Pesos Sterling Other US dollars Total At 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,544.1 1,544.1 Other loans including short-term loans 16.1 766.3 782.4 Finance leases 33.3 13.2 46.5 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 33.3 3.1 16.1 2,323.6 2,376.1 2013 Pesos Sterling Other US dollars Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 947.4 947.4 Other loans including short-term loans 1.3 365.7 367.0 Finance leases 33.9 22.3 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 33.9 3.3 1.3 1,335.4 1,373.9 C ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY TYPE OF INTEREST RATE The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2014 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2014 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,544.1 1,544.1 Other loans including short-term loans 19.1 763.3 782.4 Finance leases 45.3 1.2 46.5 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 67.5 2,308.6 2,376.1 2013 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m Corporate loans 947.4 947.4 Other loans including short-term loans 4.6 362.4 367.0 Finance leases 52.2 4.0 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 60.1 1,313.8 1,373.9 The above floating rate corporate loans include the project financing at Centinela and long-term loans at the Railway and other transport services, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2014 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Centinela was $140.0 million 2013 $191.3 million and the current notional amount hedged of the longterm loans at Railway and other transport services was $150.0 million 2013 nil.
138 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION D MATURITY PROFILE The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2014 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 34.8 209.5 996.9 302.9 1,544.1 Other loans 241.2 35.0 97.0 409.2 782.4 Finance leases 8.5 7.5 10.3 20.2 46.5 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 284.5 252.0 1,104.2 735.4 2,376.1 Within Between Between After 2013 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 326.2 188.5 377.3 55.4 947.4 Other loans 3.2 1.4 362.4 367.0 Finance leases 11.6 6.2 14.0 24.4 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 341.0 196.1 391.3 445.5 1,373.9 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Within 1 year 10.4 14.2 Between 1-2 years 8.2 8.3 Between 2-5 years 14.2 18.8 After 5 years 25.0 30.8 Total minimum lease payment 57.8 72.1 Less amounts representing finance charges 11.3 15.9 Present value of minimum lease payment 46.5 56.2 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
E BORROWINGS FACILITIES The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, were as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Expiring in one year or less 1,563.2 1,320.9 Expiring in more than one but not more than two years 53.1 313.3 Expiring in more than two years 15.4 17.8 1,631.7 1,652.0 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Of these facilities, $1,548.7 million 2013 $1,290.2 million are denominated in US dollars, $24.3 million 2013 $280.9 million in Unidades fide Fomento ie inflation-linked Chilean pesos, nil million 2013 $9.7 million in Euro and $58.8 million 2013 $71.2 million inChilean pesos.
Antofagasta plc | 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Due in one year Due after one year Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade creditors 406.5 390.6 406.5 390.6 Other creditors and accruals 387.3 386.0 4.8 4.7 392.1 390.7 793.8 776.6 4.8 4.7 798.6 781.3 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 48 days 2013 47 days.
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT A CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories defined in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition andMeasurement, are as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.2 12.9 Available-for-sale investments 15.6 16.6 Loans and receivables at amortised cost including cash and cash equivalents 1,895.2 1,662.2 Fair value through profit and loss liquid investments and mark-to-market debtors 1,529.1 2,108.3 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.0 9.8 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 3,104.1 2,149.5 Fair value through profit and loss mark-to-market creditors 70.6 5.7 254.4 1,635.0 B FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions: and the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis based on the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially different from the carrying values presented for either 2014 or 2013.
The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, groupedintolevels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices : and level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based onobservable market data unobservable inputs.
140 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.2 0.2 12.9 Available-for-sale investments 15.6 15.6 16.6 Debtors mark-to-market 36.9 Fair value through profit and loss 1,529.1 1,529.1 2,071.4 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.0 11.0 9.8 Creditors mark-to-market 70.6 70.6 5.7 1,544.7 81.4 1,463.3 2,122.3 There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
C FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
i Commodity price risk The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which may range from one to five months after delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to final pricing.
In 2014, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes represented 86.4% of Group turnover and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and realised copper prices.
The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in Note 6.
Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 23 d. Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement in the copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 cents, net earnings would have increased by $16.5 million 2013increase by $17.3 million and hedging reserves in equity would have decreased less than $0.1 million 2013 decrease by $5 million.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 cents, net earnings would have decreased by $16.5 million 2013decrease by $20.0 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased less than $0.1 million 2013 increase by$10.9 million.
In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price during the year would have affected net earnings by $64.7 million 2013 $77.8 million and earnings per share by 6.6 cents 20137.9 cents, based on production volumes in 2014, without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A$1 change in the average molybdenum price for the year would have affected net earnings by $7.0 million 2013 $9.1 million, and earnings per share by 0.7 cents 2013 0.9 cents, based on production volumes in 2014, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A $100 change in the average gold price for the year would have affected net earnings by $9.7 million 2013 $14.9 million, and earnings per share by 1.0 cents 2013 1.5 cents, based on production volumes in 2014, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
Antofagasta plc | 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equity price sensitivity The calculation assumes that all other variables, 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS such as interest rates, remain constant.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the AND FINANCIAL RISK impact of a movement in the equity values MANAGEMENT CONTINUED If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% ofthe available-for-sale financial assets held against the Chilean peso as at the reporting ii Currency risk as at the reporting date.
date, net earnings would have decreased by The Group is exposed to a variety of $6.2 million 2013 decrease by $0.5 million : If the value of the available-for-sale currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the and hedging reserves in equity would have investments had increased by 10% as currency in which the majority of the Groups decreased by $6.1 million 2013 decrease by at the reporting date, equity would have sales are denominated.
If the US dollar had weakened increased by $1.6 million 2013 increase influenced by the countries in which the by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the by $1.7 million.
There would have been Groups operations are based principally in reporting date, net earnings would have noimpact on the income statement.
Chile as well as those currencies in which the increased by $15.2 million 2013 increase by costs of imported equipment and services $0.6 million : and hedging reserves in equity v Cash flow risk are determined.
After the US dollar, the would have increased by $0.7 million 2013 The Groups future cash flows depend on Chilean peso is the most important currency increase by $6.3 million.
a number of factors, including commodity influencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
prices, production and sales levels, operating iii Interest rate risk costs, capital expenditure levels and financial Given the significance of the US dollar to the The Groups policy is generally to borrow and income and costs.
Its cash flows are therefore Groups operations, this is the presentational invest cash at floating rates.
Fluctuations in subject to the exchange, interest rate and currency of the Group for internal and external interest rates may impact the Groups net commodity price risks described above as reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency finance income or cost, and to a lesser well as operational factors and input costs.
for borrowing and holding surplus cash, extent on the value of financial assets and To reduce the risk of potential short-term although a portion of this may be held in liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses disruptions to the supply of key inputs such other currencies, notably Chilean pesos and interest rate swaps and collars to manage as electricity and sulphuric acid, the Group sterling, to meet short-term operational and interest rate exposures on a portion of its enters into medium and long-term supply capital commitments and dividend payments.
Details of any interest contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
When considered appropriate, the Group rate derivatives entered into by the Group Long-term electricity supply contracts are in uses forward exchange contracts and aregiven in Note 23 d. place at each of the Groups mines, in most currency swaps to limit the effects of cases linking the cost of electricity under the Interest rate exposure of the Groups movements in exchange rates in foreign contract to the current cost of electricity on borrowings is given in Note 21. currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group seeks to lock in The Group may also use these instruments Interest rate sensitivity supply of sulphuric acid for future periods of to reduce currency exposure on future a year or longer, with contract prices agreed The sensitivity analysis below shows the transactions and cash flows.
Details of any in the latter part of the year, to be applied impact of a movement in interest rates in exchange rate derivatives entered by the to purchases of acid in the following year.
relation to the financial instruments held Group in the year are given in Note 23 d. Further information on production and sales as at the reporting date.
The impact on levels and operating costs are given in the The currency exposure of the Groups cash, profit or loss reflects the impact on annual Operational review on pages 38 to 49. cash equivalents and liquid investments is interest expense in respect of the floating given in Note 20, and the currency exposure rate borrowings held as at the reporting date, vi Credit risk of the Groups borrowings is given in Note and the impact on annual interest income in Credit risk arises from trade and other 21.
The effects of exchange gains and losses respect of cash and cash equivalents held as receivables, cash, cash equivalents, included in the income statement are given in at the reporting date.
The impact on equity liquid investments and derivative financial Note 6.
Exchange differences on translation is as a result of changes in the fair value of instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily of the net assets of entities with a functional derivative instruments which are effective to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, currency other than the US dollar the most designated cash flow hedges.
The calculation cash equivalents and liquid investments and on material of which is Aguas fide Antofagasta assumes that all other variables, such as derivative financial instruments is limited as the S. A. are taken to the currency translation currency rates, remain constant.
counterparties are financial institutions with reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated If the interest rate increased by 1%, based high credit ratings assigned by international Statement of Changes in Equity on page 108. on the financial instruments held as at the credit agencies.
reporting date, net earnings would have Currency sensitivity All customers are subject to credit review increased by $2.5 million 2013 increase The sensitivity analysis below shows the procedures, including the use of external by $11.9 million and hedging reserves in impact of a movement in the US dollar credit ratings where available.
Credit is equity would have increased by $0.3 million Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial provided only within set limits, which are 2013increase by $2.1 million.
This does instruments held as at the reporting date.
not include the effect on the income The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the statement of changes in the fair value of Outstanding receivable balances are retranslation of monetary financial instruments the Groups liquid investments relating monitored on an ongoing basis.
including cash, cash equivalents, liquid to the underlying investments in fixed The carrying value of financial assets investments, trade receivables, trade payables income instruments.
recorded in the financial statements and borrowings.
The impact on equity is as a iv Other price risk represents the maximum exposure to result of changes in the fair value of derivative credit risk.
The amounts presented in the instruments which are effective designated The Group is exposed to equity price risk on balance sheet are net of allowances for any cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair its available-for-sale equity investments.
value of available-for-sale equity investments.
142 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION vii Liquidity risk over periods of up to three years, corporate Details of undrawn committed borrowing loans at Centinela Concentrate, repayable facilities are also given inNote 21.
The Group manages liquidity risk by over approximately seven years and Antucoya maintaining adequate cash reserves and The following table analyses the maturity long-term subordinated debt repayable over financing facilities, through the review of the Groups contractual commitments in approximately 12 years.
respect of its financial liabilities and derivative At the end of 2014 the Group was in a net financial instruments.
The table has been The Group typically holds surplus cash in debt position 2013 net cash position, as drawn up based on the undiscounted cash demand or term deposits or highly liquid disclosed in Note 30c.
Details of cash, cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group investments, which typically can be accessed equivalents and liquid investments are given in can be required to pay.
The table includes or liquidated within 24 hours.
Note 20, while details of borrowings including both interest and principal cash flows.
The majority of borrowings comprise the maturity profile are given in Note21.
corporate loans at Los Pelambres, repayable Between Less than 6 months Between After 2014 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 41.9 49.7 357.8 1,568.9 2,018.3 Other loans including short-term loans 208.5 34.8 36.7 607.7 887.8 Finance leases 4.5 4.6 7.6 29.9 46.6 Preference shares 3.1 3.1 Trade and other payables 785.8 8.0 4.2 0.6 798.6 Derivative financial instruments 5.6 1.9 2.4 1.2 11.0 1,046.3 99.0 411.8 2,208.3 3,765.4 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2013 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 178.6 176.4 211.0 468.3 1,034.3 Other loans including short-term loans 3.1 1.5 579.5 584.1 Finance leases 6.9 5.5 9.3 48.7 70.4 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 774.3 2.3 3.5 1.2 781.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 2.3 3.6 2.8 9.8 961.0 189.7 229.1 1,100.5 2,480.3 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 $160,334 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
viii Capital risk management investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings Any ineffective portion is recognised are detailed in Note 21.
Additional project immediately in the income statement.
The Groups objectives are to return capital finance or shareholder loans are taken out Realised gains and losses on commodity to shareholders while leaving the Group bythe operating subsidiaries to fund projects derivatives recognised in the income with sufficient funds to progress its short, onacase-by-case basis.
statement have been recorded within medium and long-term growth plans as well revenue.
The time value element of changes as preserving the financial flexibility to take D DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL in the fair value of derivative options is advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
INSTRUMENTS excluded from the designated hedging This policy remains unchanged.
The Group relationship, and is therefore recognised The Group occasionally uses derivative monitors capital on the basis of net cash directly in the income statement within other financial instruments, in general to reduce defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid finance items.
Realised gains and losses and its exposure to commodity price, foreign investments less borrowings which was changes in the fair value of exchange and exchange and interest rate movements.
a net debt by $1.6 million at 31 December interest derivatives are recognised within The Group does not use such derivative 2014 2013 net cash $1,311.2 million, as other finance items for those derivatives instruments for speculative trading purposes.
well as gross cash defined as cash, cash where hedge accounting has not been equivalents and liquid investments which was The Group has applied the hedge accounting applied.
When hedge accounting has $2,374.5 million at 31 December 2014 2013 provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: been applied the realised gains and losses $2,685.1 million.
The Groups total cash is Recognition and Measurement.
on exchange and interest derivatives are held in a combination of on demand and term Changes in the fair value of derivative financial recognised within other finance items and deposits and managed funds investing in high instruments that are designated and effective interest expense respectively.
Some of the as hedges of future cash flows have been managed funds have been instructed to invest recognised directly in equity, with such in instruments with average maturities greater amounts subsequently recognised in the than 90 days.
These amounts are presented income statement in the period when the as liquid investments but are included in net hedged item affects profit or loss.
cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse Antofagasta plc | 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED i Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The gains or losses recorded in the income statement or in reserves during the year, and the fair value recorded on the balance sheet at the end of the year in respect of derivatives are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2014 Fair value recorded Impact on income statement Impact on reserves on balance sheet Gains losses Losses resulting from resulting from mark-to-market mark-to-market Realised adjustments on Total net adjustments on Net financial gains losses hedging instruments loss gain hedging instruments liability asset 2014 2014 2014 2014 31.12.2014 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives Centinela cathodes 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.2 Michilla 18.3 5.0 13.3 6.2 Exchange derivatives Michilla 4.1 4.1 1.7 Antucoya 0.1 0.1 3.8 4.0 Interest derivatives Centinela concentrates 4.8 4.8 3.4 6.0 Railway and other transport services 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 8.5 5.1 3.4 8.7 10.8 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Fair value recorded Impact on income statement Impact on reserves on balance sheet Gains losses Gains resulting from resulting from mark-to-market mark-to-market Realised adjustments on Total net adjustments on Net financial gains losses hedging instruments gain loss hedging instruments liability asset 2013 2013 2013 2013 31.12.2013 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives Centinela cathodes 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.4 Michilla 25.2 13.5 11.7 1.3 11.2 Exchange derivatives Michilla 7.2 7.2 5.3 1.7 Interest derivatives Centinela concentrates 7.8 7.8 8.7 9.4 Energy derivatives Los Pelambres 0.8 0.8 10.3 25.6 13.5 12.1 7.4 3.1 The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
The net financial asset liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Analysed between: Non-current assets Current assets 0.2 12.9 Current liabilities 7.5 3.4 Non-current liabilities 3.5 6.4 10.8 3.1 144 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
a Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production to swap COMEX price exposure for LME price exposure according to the Groups pricing policy.
For instruments held at At 31.12.14 31.12.14 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Covering a production 1 January period hedged 2015 up to: tonnes Months Centinela cathodes 1,100 0.7 31-01-2015 b Exchange derivatives The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the exchange rates influencing operating costs and the fair value of non-US dollar denominated assets or liabilities.
Cross-currency swaps The Group has used cross-currency swaps to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars.
At 31.12.14 For instruments held at 31.12.14 Weighted Principal average value of remaining crossperiod from Covering a Weighted currency 1 January period average swaps held 2015 up to: rate $m Months Ch$ US$ Antucoya 45.0 2.4 15-05-2015 564.6 Zero cost collar At 31.12.14 For instruments held at 31.12.14 Weighted Principal average value of remaining crossperiod from Covering a Weighted Weighted currency 1 January period average rate average rate swaps held 2015 up to: call put $m Months Ch$ US$ Ch$ US$ Antucoya 27.0 1.4 16-03-2015 589.6 550.0 c Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Centinela project financing and long-term loans attheRailway for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2014 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Maximum Weighted notional average fixed amount rate Start date Maturity date $m % Centinela concentrates 15-02-2011 15-08-2018 140.0 3.372 Railway and other transport services 12-08-2014 12-03-2019 150.0 1.634 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
Antofagasta plc | 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
DETAILS OF THE AWARDS Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable byparticipants in respect of the awards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
In ordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
A One-off Award was granted to Diego Hernndez, the Group CEO, following his appointment during 2012.
This award was granted for thesame purpose as the awards granted under the LTIP but by reference to metrics which are specific to the participants role as CEO.
VALUATION PROCESS AND ACCOUNTING FOR THE AWARDS The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model areas follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average forecast share price at vesting date USD 11.46 USD 7.09 Expected volatility 28.32% 41.48% Expected life of awards 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yields 2.45% 1.60% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
The number of awards outstanding at the end of the period is as follows: Restricted Performance One-off Awards Awards Award Outstanding at 1 January 2014 426,430 491,035 83,496 Granted during the period 362,681 362,681 Cancelled during the period 43,918 66,494 Payments during the period 167,874 Outstanding at 31 December 2014 577,319 787,222 83,496 Number of awards that have vested 274,580 The Group has recorded a liability for $8.9 million at 31 December 2014, of which $4.9 million is due after more than one year 31 December 2013 $4.8 million, of which $3.1 million was due after more than one year and total expenses of $5.8 million for the year 2013 expense of$1.7 million.
146 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 25 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2014 was $0.2 million 2013 $0.2 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
B SEVERANCE PROVISIONS Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2014 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago-Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2014 2013 Average nominal discount rate 4.5% 5.3% Average rate of increase in salaries 2.6% 3.3% Average staff turnover 5.0% 4.8% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Current service cost charge to operating profit 17.2 16.0 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 3.5 3.9 Foreign exchange credit to other finance items 12.0 8.0 Total charge to income statement 8.7 11.9 Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 91.2 81.5 Current service cost 17.2 16.0 Actuarial losses 18.0 6.9 Charge capitalised 0.1 0.8 Interest cost 3.5 3.9 Reclassification 1.1 Paid in the year 13.7 9.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 12.0 8.0 Balance at the end of the year 103.0 91.2 Assumptions description Discount rate The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount the estimated future severance payments to their present value.
The table below shows the principal instruments and assumptions utilised in determining the discount rate: 31.12.2014 31.12.2013 Nominal discount rate 4.5% 5.30% 20-year Chilean 20-year Chilean Reference rate name Central Bank Bonds Central Bank Bonds Governmental or corporate rate Governmental Governmental Reference rating AAAA AAAA Corresponds to an Issuance market primary or secondary market Secondary Secondary Issuance currency associated to the reference rate Chilean peso Chilean peso Date of determination of the reference interest rate December 03, 2014 December 04, 2013 Source of the reference interest rate Bloomberg Bloomberg Antofagasta plc | 147 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Rate of increase in salaries This represents the estimated average rates of future salary increases, reflecting likely future promotions and other changes.
This has been based on historical information for the Group for the period from 2011 to 2014.
Turnover rate This represents the estimated average level of future employee turnover.
Sensitive analysis Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase and staff turnover.
The sensitive analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end ofthe reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points higher the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $8.8 million.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points lower the defined benefit obligation would increase by $10.4 million.
If the expected salary growth increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by $9.8 million.
If the expected salary growth decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $8.4 million.
If the staff turnover increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $1.5 million.
If the staff turnover decreases by1%thedefined benefit obligation would increase by $1.5 million.
26 DEFERRED TAX The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 2014 and 2013.
Temporary Accelerated differences capital on Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2013 628.9 87.0 150.9 13.5 26.4 1.4 731.3 Charge credit to income 91.1 21.0 81.1 0.2 8.6 0.5 160.1 Charge deferred in equity 2.4 2.4 At 1 January 2014 720.0 108.0 232.0 10.9 35.0 0.9 889.0 Charge credit to income 257.3 50.5 222.5 0.2 7.2 0.6 9.3 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 Charge deferred in equity 4.2 4.2 At 31 December 2014 977.3 158.5 9.5 6.2 42.2 1.5 875.2 The credit to the income statement of $9.3 million 2013 $160.1 million charge includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of$2.9 million 2013 includes a credit of $2.1 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2014 2013 $m $m Deferred tax assets 104.6 76.9 Deferred tax liabilities 979.8 965.9 Net deferred tax balances 875.2 889.0 At 31 December 2014, the Group had unused tax losses of $14.3 million 2013 $235.9 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of $1.5 million has been recognised in respect of these losses in 2014 2013 $4.5 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2014, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $4,520.4 million 2013 $5,124.5 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
148 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION 27 DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION AND OTHER LONG-TERM PROVISIONS 2014 2013 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 494.3 384.6 Credit charge to operating profit in the year 7.4 71.0 Release of discount to net interest in the year 5.6 10.3 Actuarial gain loss 0.6 3.5 Capitalised adjustment to provision 48.1 31.8 Reclassification 0.9 Utilised in year 6.2 5.5 Foreign currency exchange difference 2.4 1.4 Balance at the end of the year 434.3 494.3 Analysed as follows: Decommissioning and restoration 432.6 492.5 Termination of Water concession 1.7 1.8 Balance at the end of the year 434.3 494.3 A DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised from 2024 until 2059 based on current mine plans.
$69.5 million of the provision relates to Michilla, and this element of the provision is expected to be utilised following the termination ofoperations at Michilla at the end of 2015.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the decommissioning and restoration provisions at the Groups mining operations decreased by a net total of $60.0 million, mainly relating to decreases in decommissioning costs which were reflected through adjustments to the corresponding asset balances.
The net decrease mainly relates to Los Pelambres, reflecting updated forecasts of the exact nature of required closure activities and their costs.
B TERMINATION OF WATER CONCESSION The provision for the termination of the Water concession relates to the provision for items of plant, property and equipment and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to the previous state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN at the end of the concession period, and is based on the net present value of the estimated value of those assets and liabilities in existence atthe end of the concession.
28 SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES i Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 number number $m $m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2014 2013 2014 2013 number number $m $m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2013 or 2014.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 21a xvii.
ii Other reserves Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2014 and 2013 are included within the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 108.
Antofagasta plc | 149 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The non-controlling interests of the Group during 2014 and 2013 are as follows: Share of Capital profit contribution Elimination Nonlosses for on nonof nonHedging and controlling the financial Share of controlling controlling actuarial Exchange Interest At 01.01.14 year dividends interest interest gains losses differences At 31.12.14 % Country $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 1,030.9 352.3 392.0 19.9 971.3 Centinela 30.0 Chile 819.8 56.1 15.0 0.2 861.1 Michilla 0.1 Chile 37.4 0.3 5.2 32.0 0.8 0.7 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 26.2 3.8 46.2 1.7 14.5 Twin Metals 60.0 USA 62.5 12.3 6.5 56.7 Railway and other transport services 50.0 Bolivia 14.7 1.1 0.2 13.4 Total 1,939.1 390.9 412.2 52.7 88.7 20.6 0.2 1,861.0 Share of Capital Capital profit increase contribution Nonlosses for on nonon nonHedging and controlling the financial controlling controlling Share of actuarial Exchange Interest At 01.01.13 year interest interest dividends gains losses differences At 31.12.13 % Country $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 980.5 477.7 422.1 5.2 1,030.9 Centinela 30.0 Chile 691.8 155.7 30.0 2.3 819.8 Michilla 25.8 Chile 50.8 11.5 1.9 37.4 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 115.6 1.6 91.1 0.1 26.2 Twin Metals 60.0 USA 70.4 39.9 13.3 18.7 62.5 Railway and other transport services 50.0 Bolivia 16.3 0.2 1.4 14.7 Total 1,694.2 580.2 13.3 109.8 452.1 6.3 1,939.1 SUMMARISED FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW FOR THE YEARS ENDED 2014 AND 2013 Los Pelambres Centinela Michilla Antucoya 2014 2014 2014 2014 $m $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 0.1% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 219.5 760.2 68.8 171.1 Current assets 473.1 457.2 64.1 78.4 Non-current assets 2,968.2 4,295.1 47.8 1,458.4 Current liabilities 475.2 869.7 47.5 796.0 Non-current liabilities 783.7 1,681.2 66.4 867.4 Accumulated non-controlling interest 971.3 861.1 0.7 14.5 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,376.1 744.5 65.2 158.5 Net cash flow from investing activities 408.9 838.9 10.5 676.6 Net cash flow from financing activities 914.9 1.1 20.0 959.1 Los Pelambres Centinela Michilla Antucoya 2013 2013 2013 2013 $m $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 25.8% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 192.4 506.8 34.0 47.1 Current assets 675.2 756.1 103.8 38.1 Non-current assets 2,881.8 3,399.8 89.8 680.8 Current liabilities 338.6 954.0 39.9 694.9 Non-current liabilities 846.8 1,174.7 54.3 177.9 Accumulated non-controlling interest 1,030.9 819.8 37.4 26.2 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,168.1 968.9 41.6 24.6 Net cash flow from investing activities 160.4 510.4 17.2 574.3 Net cash flow from financing activities 1,196.2 786.8 598.1 150 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE SUMMARISED FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW i The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements ie 100% of the results and balances of the subsidiary rather than the non-controlling interest proportionate share before inter-company eliminations.
ii Summarised income statement information is shown in the segment information in Note 4.
30 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT A RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2014 2013 $m $m Profit before tax 1,573.5 2,083.5 Depreciation and amortisation 606.0 517.7 Net profit loss on disposals 24.1 12.4 Net finance expense 62.1 74.2 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 4.1 14.4 Decrease in inventories 32.1 1.8 Decrease increase in debtors 124.8 148.2 Increase in creditors and provisions 129.3 103.4 Cash flows from operations 2,507.8 2,659.2 B ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT CASH At 01.01.14 Cash flows Other Exchange At 31.12.14 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 613.7 259.2 27.5 845.4 Liquid investments 2,071.4 542.3 1,529.1 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,685.1 283.1 27.5 2,374.5 Bank borrowings due within one year 329.4 29.7 23.7 276.0 Bank borrowings due after one year 985.0 1,042.2 23.3 2,050.5 Finance leases due within one year 11.6 12.2 9.1 8.5 Finance leases due after one year 44.6 6.6 38.0 Preference shares 3.3 0.2 3.1 Total borrowings 1,373.9 1,000.3 2.1 0.2 2,376.1 Net debt cash 1,311.2 1,283.4 2.1 27.3 1.6 At 01.01.13 Cash flows Other Exchange At 31.12.13 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 1,811.3 1,181.3 16.3 613.7 Liquid investments 2,480.6 409.2 2,071.4 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,291.9 1,590.5 16.3 2,685.1 Bank borrowings due within one year 434.3 267.0 162.1 329.4 Bank borrowings due after one year 1,377.2 245.5 146.7 985.0 Finance leases due within one year 12.7 15.6 14.5 11.6 Finance leases due after one year 61.8 15.0 2.2 44.6 Preference shares 3.2 0.1 3.3 Total borrowings 1,889.2 528.1 14.9 2.1 1,373.9 Net cash 2,402.7 1,062.4 14.9 14.2 1,311.2 C NET DEBT CASH 2014 2013 $m $m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,374.5 2,685.1 Total borrowings 2,376.1 1,373.9 1.6 1,311.2 Antofagasta plc | 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2014 2013 $m $m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 36.6 23.5 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Within one year 30.5 23.8 In their second to fifth years inclusive 33.3 21.3 After five years 0.8 2.3 64.6 47.4 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
32 CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS In 2003, the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled by the state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN.
The concession consists of two businesses, one an unregulated business supplying mines and other industrial users and the other a regulated water business supplying domestic customers.
The concession contract was signed and control of the assets and operation assumed on 29 December 2003 by Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
Under the concession contract, certain assets and liabilities mainly certain specific tangible fixed assets and working capital items were transferred to Aguas fide Antofagasta by way of sale.
Other assets mainly water rights and infrastructure were transferred by way of concession and will devolve to ECONSSA at the end of the 30-year period.
Aguas fide Antofagasta will also be required to transfer to ECONSSA any tangible fixed assets and working capital items under its ownership at the end of the 30-year concession period.
A provision for the termination of the Water concession has been created for the fixed assets and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to ECONSSA at the end of the concession period.
The provision is based on the net present value of the estimated value of these assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
The release of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of future costs is charged to the income statement in each accounting period and is disclosed as a financing cost.
Further details of this provision are given in Note 27 b.
The Chilean Water Regulator Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios sets domestic tariffs every five years following a regulatory review including representations from the operator of the concession.
The last regulatory review was completed during 2011 and there was not significant variation compared to the last regulatory review in 2006.
33 EXCHANGE RATES IN US DOLLARS Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars and sterling at the period-end rates of exchange.
Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into dollars at the average rate for each period.
2014 2013 US$1.6426 1: US$1.6515 1: Year end rates US$1 Ch$606.75 US$1 Ch$524.61 US$1.6072 1: US$1.5630 1: Average rates US$1 Ch$570.15 US$1 Ch$495.00 152 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION from 74.2% to 99.9%.
This included the B COMPAA fide INVERSIONES 34 RELATED PARTY acquisition of the 7.973% stake held by ADRITICO S. A.
TRANSACTIONS Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. an entity In 2013, the Group leased office space on Transactions between the Company and its ultimately controlled by the Luksic family, for normal commercial terms from Compaa subsidiaries, which are related parties, have $9.6 million.
Prior to this transaction, Michilla fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. a company been eliminated on consolidation and are not paid dividends of $1.6 million to Minera Cerro controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of disclosed in this Note.
the Group and its associates are H DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY disclosed below.
C COMPAA ANTOFAGASTA MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TERMINAL INTERNACIONAL S. A.
The transactions that Group companies Information relating to Directors entered into with related parties who are not As explained in Note 16, the Group has a 30% remuneration and interests are given in the members of the Group are set out below.
interest in Antofagasta Terminal Internacional Remuneration report on pages 86 to 99.
S. A. ATI which is accounted for as an A QUIENCO S. A.
Information relating to the remuneration of associate.
During 2014, the Group has not key management personnel including the Quienco S. A. Quienco is a Chilean received dividends from ATI 2013 nil.
Directors is given in Note 7. financial and industrial conglomerate, the D ANTOMIN LIMITED, ANTOMIN 2 shares of which are traded on the Santiago I INVERSIONES HORNITOS S. A.
LIMITED AND ANTOMIN INVESTORS Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco LIMITED As explained in Note 16, the Group has a are both under the control of the Luksic 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. family, and three Directors of the Company, The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin which is accounted for as an associate.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Andrnico Luksic and 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin The Group paid $175.3 million year ended Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors Investors Limited Antomin Investors, 31 December 2013 $167.8 million to of Quienco.
which own a number of copper exploration Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy properties.
The Group originally acquired The following material transactions took place supply contract at Centinela.
During 2014, its 51% interest in these properties for a between the Group and the Quienco group the Group has received dividends from nominal consideration from Mineralinvest of companies, all of which were on normal Inversiones Hornitos S. A. for $20 million Establishment, a company controlled by commercial terms: 2013 nil.
the Luksic family, which continues to hold the Group bought supply from Madeco, the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and J EL ARRAYN a subsidiary of Quienco for $0.4 million Antomin Investors.
During the year ended As explained in Note 16, the Group has a 2013 nil.
The balance due from Madeco 31 December 2014 the Group incurred 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A. at the end of the year was nil 2013 nil : $17.0 million year ended 31 December El Arrayn, which is accounted for as an 2013 $22.1 million of exploration work the Group sold copper cathodes during the associate.
The Group paid $12.0 million year atthese properties.
year for nil 2013 $6.8 million to Madeco ended 31 December 2013 nil to El Arrayn S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
The balance E TETHYAN COPPER COMPANY LIMITED in relation to the energy supply contract at due from Madeco at the end of the year Los Pelambres.
During 2014 the Group has As explained in Note 16 the Group has a was nil 2013 less than $0.1 million : contributed $2.6 million to El Arrayn year 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company ended December 2013 nil.
the Group bought copper wire from Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture Madeco for nil 2013 for $0.8 million : with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans K ALTO MAIPO SPA mineral interests in Pakistan.
During 2014 the Group earned interest income of As explained in Note 16, the Group has the Group contributed $8.5 million 2013 $0.5 million 2013 $0.7 million during the a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto $7.0 million to Tethyan.
The balance due from year on deposits with Banco fide Chile S. A. Maipo, which is accounted for as an Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the a subsidiary of Quienco.
During 2014 the Group has not year was nil 2013 nil.
at the end of the year were $70.1 million made capital contributions to Alto Maipo 2013 $48.7 million : F ENERGA ANDINA S. A.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December the Group earned interest income of As explained in Note 16, the Group has a 2014 was $152.4 2013 $47.0 million $1.5 million 2013 $1.1 million during 50.1% interest in Energia Andina, which representing loan financing with an interest the year on investments with BanChile is a joint venture with Origin Energy rate of LIBOR six-month plus 4.25%.
Corredores fide Bolsa S. A. a subsidiary Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation of Quienco.
Investment balances at and development of potential sources of L TWIN METALS the end of the year were $26.3 million geothermal and solar energy.
The balance As explained in Note 16, the Group holds 2013$17.3 million : due from Energa Andina S. A. to the Group at a 40% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota 31 December 2014 was less than $0.1 million the Group bought fuel from ENEX S. A. LLC Twin Metals, which from July 2014 2013 less than $0.1 million.
During the a subsidiary of Quienco of $54.3 million has been accounted for as an associate.
year ended 31 December 2014 the Group 2013 $79.2 million.
The balance due The Group has contributed $2.8 million contributed $7.7 million to Energa Andina from ENEX S. A. at the end of the year was to Twin Metals since July 2014 while it 2013 $21.6 million.
nil 2013 nil : and has been accounted for as an associate.
Throughout 2013 and up to July 2014 Twin the Group has contract shipping services G MICHILLA MINERA CERRO Metals was controlled by the Group and from Compaia Sudamericana fide Vapores CENTINELA S. A. accounted for as a subsidiary, and therefore all S. A. subsidiary of Quienco, of nil In March 2014 the Group acquired an contributions from the Group to Twin Metals 2013$0.5 million.
additional 25.7% interest in Michilla for during this period were between consolidated $30.9 million, increasing the Groups interest Group subsidiaries.
Antofagasta plc | 153 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Los Pelambres stopped using and depositing Nevertheless, on 21 November 2014, Los 35 LITIGATION AND rock in the relevant area of the Botadero Pelambres submitted this plan to the Civil CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Cerro Amarillo in 2011.
After this time, aBiCourt in Los Vilos.
On 9 March 2015 that Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries are subject national Border subcommission undertook Court found that the plan submitted by Los to various claims which arise in the ordinary a demarcation mission in the area, placing Pelambres was not sufficient to address the course of business.
No provision has been markers in the area to demarcate the requirements of the Supreme Court order, made in the financial statements and none of borderline.
Following the completion of and as a consequence Los Pelambres must these claims are currently expected to result this exercise, it was established that part destroy part, or all, of the tailings dam wall.
in any material loss to the Group.
Details of of the Botadero Cerro Amarillo is located Los Pelambres considers the ruling to be the principal claims in existence either during, in Argentina.
flawed, has appealed the Courts decision or at the end of, the period and the current and is considering the exercise of all available Los Pelambres has informed the Chilean status of these claims are set out below: legal measures that may be required to government of the claim filed by Xstrata overturn this decision and address its Pachon, noting that the use and operation of LOS PELAMBRES MAURO TAILINGS potential consequences.
the Botadero Cerro Amarillo was at all times DAM properly authorised by the Chilean authorities.
In the second claim, the plaintiffs are As previously announced, during 2008 Los seeking demolition of the dam on the Pelambres entered into binding settlements Los Pelambres has presented objections to basis of the risk that its collapse would in respect of litigation relating to the Mauro the jurisdiction of the Argentinean courts pose to the community.
The Civil Court in tailings dam.
Since then, there have been a to hear the Xstrata Pachons claim and any Los Vilos issued a decision in May 2014 series of civil claims filed by some members decision of this Court on this preliminary denying the demolition request but ordering of the Caimanes community which is located issue may be appealed by each party.
It is not Minera Los Pelambres to undertake some near the Mauro valley seeking to stop the expected that a determinative outcome will additional measures to ensure protection operation of the dam.
Many of these claims be reached on these facts for several years.
of the community, in the event of a major have been rejected by the relevant courts.
earthquake or similar natural event.
TETHYAN COPPER COMPANY Two of these claims are currently ongoing These measures need to be reviewed and PTYLIMITED and Los Pelambres is continuing to take agreed with the technically competent bodies The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan necessary steps to protect its position.
In responsible for supervision of the dam.
Copper Company Pty Limited Tethyan, its the first claim, the plaintiffs have argued that The decision of that Court has been appealed joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation the tailings dam affects their alleged water by both the plantiffs and Los Pelambres and Barrick.
In February 2011, Tethyan rights and the environment.
This allegation is these appeals will be heard before the Court submitted an application for a mining lease based on assertions that the dam interferes of Appeal of La Serena.
The Court of Appeal to the Government of Balochistan which with the flow and quality of the water in the of La Serena is expected to hear this matter was subsequently rejected in November Pupo stream, a stream that passes through in the second quarter of 2015.
Tethyan is pursuing two international the Caimanes community.
This claim was the Court of Appeal may also be subject to an arbitrations in order to protect its legal rights: rejected by the Civil Court in Los Vilos in a appeal to the Supreme Court of Chile.
one against the Government of Pakistan judgement issued in November 2012, which under the auspices of the International LOS PELAMBRES BOTADERO CERRO was than affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Centre for Settlement of Investment AMARILLO La Serena in August 2013.
In October 2014, Disputes ICSID, and another against the Supreme Court, by split decision, upheld Xstrata Pachon S. A. has filed a claim against the Government of Balochistan under the the appeal and ordered Los Pelambres to Los Pelambres before the Federal Court auspices of the International Chamber of submit back to the Civil Court in Los Vilos, of San Juan, Argentina, alleging that Los Commerce ICC.
Tethyan is seeking within one month, an implementation plan for Pelambres has unlawfully deposited wastemonetary damages only and is no longer works that would ensure that the operation rock Botadero Cerro Amarillo on its seeking the grant of a mining lease at of the dam does not affect the normal flow property on the Argentinian side of the Chile Reko Diq.
During 2014, Tethyan presented and quality of the waters of the Pupo stream.
arguments on preliminary issues before the Los Pelambres believes that the requirements Los Pelambres is located on the Chilean side ICC tribunal including as to the jurisdiction of of this order have already been met as Los of a section of the border between Chile and the ICC tribunal and on jurisdiction and merits Pelambres has undertaken significant works Argentina in the Coquimbo region of Chile and before the ICSID tribunal.
Both arbitrations to ensure that the flow of the Pupo stream Xstrata Pachon is located on the Argentinian are continuing: Tethyan prevailed on the is not altered and that the operation of the side of the border in the same area.
preliminary issues before the ICC Tribunal, tailings dam does not affect the quantity or which will now proceed to consider the quality of these waters something that has Los Pelambres received all of the required merits of the parties respective claims, been confirmed by accredited independent authorisations from the Chilean government while a decision from the ICSID Tribunal on assessors and other public services in Chile at the time before depositing the waste-rock jurisdiction and liability is anticipated in 2015. and confirmed by the Supreme Court in in its current location for the first time, which aparallel decision.
according to the official Chilean cartography at that time was located within Chile.
Subsequently, Chile modified the official cartography in this area without making public this change.
154 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION at a cost of US$34 million.
Accordingly, 36 EVENTS AFTER THE 37 ULTIMATE PARENT the total cash consideration related to the BALANCE SHEET DATE COMPANY acquisition was US$82 million.
Including the The immediate parent of the Group is DULUTH METALS LIMITED AND TWIN US$9 million value of the 17.2% of Duluths Metalinvest Establishment, which is METALS MINNESOTA LIMITED share capital already held by the Group controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which at 31 December 2014, the total fair value In January 2015 the Group completed its members of the Luksic family are interested.
of 100% of Duluth taking account of the acquisition of 100% of Duluth Metals Limited redemption of the convertible debentures Duluth.
Duluth holds a 60% stake in Twin Both Metalinvest Establishment and the was $91 million.
Metals Minnesota Limited Twin Metals, E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in the company in which the Group held a 40% Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the The principal asset of Duluth was its 60% stake as at December 2014.
Twin Metals interest of Metalinvest Establishment and interest in Twin Metals.
The provisional is seeking to develop a copper-nickelthe E. Abaroa Foundation are given in the estimate of the net fair value of the other PGM deposit in northeastern Minnesota.
identifiable assets and liabilities of Duluth In November 2014 Antofagasta entered at the acquisition date is a net liability of into a binding letter of agreement to acquire US$10 million.
The difference between 100% of Duluth.
The acquisition completed the total consideration and the net assets subsequent to the year end following approval acquired other than the interest in Twin from Duluths shareholders in January 2015.
Metals is therefore provisionally estimated Accordingly, subsequent to the year end the to be US$101 million, which represents the Group has a 100% interest in Duluth and as a fair value of Duluths 60% stake in Twin result of this a 100% interest in Twin Metals.
From January 2015 Twin Metals will be consolidated as a 100% subsidiary of the As at 31 December 2014 the Group held Group, with its principal asset being its mining 17.2% of Duluths share capital, with a properties, reflected within property, plant fair value of US$9 million.
The fair value and equipment.
Accordingly, the provisionally of the consideration transferred to acquire estimated US$101 million value, which the remaining share capital of Duluth in reflects the fair value of Duluths 60% interest January 2015 was US$48 million, reflecting in the Twin Metals project, will be reflected the agreed acquisition price of C$0.45 per within the Twin Metals mining properties share.
As part of the acquisition agreement heldwithin property, plant and equipment.
the Group agreed to redeem convertible debentures previously issued by Duluth, Antofagasta plc | 155
