GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS BUSINESS, FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly owned Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code published by subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile Governance the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and operating the Water concession in Chiles Code and applicable to listed companies for reporting Antofagasta Region acquired from ECONSSA.
years beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The code replaced the 2010 Combined Code on ADR American Depositary Receipt.
Corporate Governance and was first applied by the AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Alto Maipo Alto Maipo SpA, a 40%-owned associate of the Directors The Directors of the Company.
Group incorporated in Chile, which owns the Alto Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary Maipo hydroelectric project in the upper section of Antofagasta plc since 28 January 2015 through ofthe Maipo River in Chile.
which the Group holds the Twin Metals Project.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly owned EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, which and Amortisation.
acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios Annual report The Annual Report and Financial Statements of S. A. the Chilean state-owned company which Antofagasta plc.
previously operated the regulated and nonAntucoya Minera Antucoya S. A. a copper project located regulated water distribution business in Chiles approximately 45 km east of Michilla, 70% owned Antofagasta Region formerly known as ESSAN.
El Arrayn Parque Elico el Arrayn SPA, a 30%-owned ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. associate of the Group that operates a winda30%-owned associate of the Group incorporated power plant providing up to 40MW of electricity in Chile and operating the port in the city toLos Pelambres.
El Tesoro Known as Centinela Cathodes following the Australian Australian currency.
dollars ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 50% joint Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
venture partner of the Group in Energa Andina S. A. Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner Encuentro Copper oxides and sulphide prospect located in the of the Group in Tethyan Copper Company Limited.
Centinela Mining District held through Compaa Capex Capital expenditure s. Contractual Minera Encuentro, a wholly owned Cash costs A measure of the cost of operational production subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, expressed in terms of dollars per pound of payable formerly known as Caracoles.
Cash costs are stated net of Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina S. A. a 50%-owned joint venture by-product credits and include tolling charges for entity of the Group incorporated in Chile.
concentrates for Los Pelambres and Centinela EPS Earnings per share.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, Esperanza Known as Centinela Concentrates following the financial income and expenses, hedging gains creation of Centinela.
and losses, exchange gains and losses and corporation tax.
Esperanza Sur Copper prospect located in the Centinela Mining District.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Quienco.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name of ECONSSA.
Centinela Minera Centinela S. A. a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, incorporates EU European Union.
Centinela Concentrates formerly Esperanza and FCA Financial Conduct Authority.
Centinela Cathodes formerly El Tesoro.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean Centinela Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region name for the Antofagasta Railway Company Mining District of Chile, where Minera Centinela is located.
plc, awholly owned subsidiary of the Group Formerly known as the Sierra Gorda district.
incorporated in the UK and operating a rail network CGU Cash-Generating Unit.
FTSE All-Share A  weighted index representing Index the performance of all eligible companies listed on Companies Act Principal legislation for United Kingdom the London Stock Exchanges main market.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Company Antofagasta plc.
Continental Water that comes from the interior of land masses Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
water including rain, snow, streams, rivers, lakes and groundwater.
Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies.
172 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Hedge Accounting treatment for derivatives financial Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues accounting instrument permitted under IAS 39 Financial grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, withsales volumes.
which recognises the offsetting effects on profit Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry or loss of changes in the fair values of a hedging district in south-west Pakistan.
The Groups interest instrument and the hedged item.
is held through Tethyan Copper Company Limited, IAS International Accounting Standards.
a 50-50 joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Run-of-river A type of hydroelectric plant using the flow IFRIC International Financial Reporting of a stream as it occurs and having little or no Interpretations Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Sernageomin Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate Sterling UK currency.
Hornitos of the Group incorporated in Chile which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Telgrafo The former name of the Encuentro copper prospect Tax Chilean VAT.
and located in the Centinela Mining District.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility for Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned Personnel planning, directing and controlling the activities joint venture entity of the Group incorporated ofthe Group.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share price LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
Twin A copper, nickel and platinum group metals Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary Metals Minnesota strategic metals underground-mining project ofthe Group incorporated in Chile.
Project located in northeastern Minnesota.
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
UK Corporate The UK Corporate Code published by the Financial Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Governance Reporting Council in May 2010 and applicable to Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority Code 2010 listed companies for reporting years beginning on partner in Minera Centinela and Antucoya.
The code replaced the 2008 Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 99.9%-owned subsidiary Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
ofthe Group incorporated in Chile.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Mirador Copper oxide deposit that forms part of the US United States.
US dollars United States currency.
Provisional A sales term in several copper and molybdenum pricing concentrate sale agreements and cathodes sale agreements that provides for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specific future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative ie the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted that is separated from the host contract ie the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
Antofagasta plc | 173 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS MINING INDUSTRY Brownfield project A development or exploration project in the vicinity Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate of an existing operation.
assessments have been carried out to demonstrate that at a given date extraction could be reasonably By-products Products obtained as a result of copper processing.
These include consideration of and credits in copper Los Pelambres and Centinela Concentrates receive modification by realistically assumed mining, concentrates credit for the gold and silver content in the copper metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, concentrate sold.
Los Pelambres also produces environmental, social and governmental factors.
Oxide and Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, Sulphide ores occurs on the weathered surface of ore-rich such as flotation or gravity concentration, which lodes and normally results in the production of involves separating ore minerals from unwanted cathode copper through a heap-leaching process.
Concentrates require subsequent Sulphide ore comes from an unweathered parent processing such as smelting or leaching to break ores process and normally results in the production down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the of concentrate through a flotation process which desired elements, usually metals.
then requires smelting and refining to produce Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper contained cathode copper.
inagiven quantity of ore or concentrate.
Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining copper for which payment is received after ofimpure copper by electrowinning.
Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated considered economic to process and used in the chalcopyrite and other sulphide minerals.
calculation of ore reserves and mineral resources.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, Flotation A process of separation by which chemicals in generally in open pits, for copper and its bysolution are added to materials, some of which are product molybdenum.
attracted to bubbles and float, while others sink.
Run-of-Mine A process for the recovery of copper from ore, This results in the production of concentrate.
ROM typically used for low-grade ores.
The mined, Grade A Highest-quality copper cathode LME registered uncrushed ore is leached with a chemical solution.
copper cathode and certified in the case of Centinela Cathodes The metal is then recovered from the solution and Michilla.
Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new project Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
A process Heap-leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore. for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure The crushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, metal.
First the metal is leached into solution: the impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling resulting solution is then purified in the solventgravity fed chemical solution through the beds extraction process: the solution is then treated in an to ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the electrochemical process electrowinning to recover solution through the SX-EW process.
JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can be remains as a result of the concentrating process economically recovered by dissolution.
after the recoverable minerals have been extracted LOM or Life-of-Mine The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, in concentrate form.
calculated by reference to scheduled production TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms used rates ie comparing the rate at which ore is to set the smelting and refining charge or margin expected to be extracted from the mine to current for processing copper concentrate and normally defined reserves.
seteither on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate insuch form and quantity that there are reasonable into finished metal.
These include TC RCs, prospects for eventual economic extraction.
price participation and price sharing for Mineral resources are stated inclusive of ore copper concentrate and roasting charges reserves, as defined by JORC.
MW Megawatts one million watts.
tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the Open pit Mine working or excavation that is open quantity of ore processed over a given period tothe surface.
oftime expressed as a daily average.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface beeconomically and legally extracted.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or percentage, of metal content in an ore body or quantity of processed ore. 174 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N CURRENCY ABBREVIATIONS $ US dollar.
DEFINITIONS AND CONVERSION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES lb Pound.
