STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: OUR VISION continued CUSTOMERS Provide exceptional service to all of our customers and put them at the heart of our decisions.
INSTITUTE OF CUSTOMER SERVICE UK FIRST SUSTAINABLE LIVING The Group joined the Institute of This year we have opened new overseas We have a role to play in promoting Customer Service ICS during 2014 to sales offices in Beijing and Dubai.
Whilst sustainable lifestyles to residents and further improve service and to enable overseas customers are important, helping them to operate their home benchmarking of performance.
A survey of bringing inward investment into the UK, efficiently and make the best use of our employees and some recent customers we recognise that UK purchasers should local facilities.
We also believe that this OUR APPROACH OUR HEADLINE COMMITMENTS FOR 2014 2016 was undertaken, with Berkeley performing have the opportunity to buy our homes.
is something our customers want: in our above the benchmark set by ICS and In August 2013, ahead of the Mayoral 2014 Customer Sustainability Survey it Our customers are at the heart of all our decisions.
We have set three stretching commitments in the achieving its highest score for friendliness Concordat, we made a pledge to offer was highlighted that energy efficiency, We aim to understand their needs and consistently area of Customers to further improve our approach: of staff.
Several of our businesses have all developments in the UK before running costs and open spaces are meet or exceed their expectations.
The service Deliver world-class customer service measured since implemented accredited ICS training marketing overseas.
important factors when customers are we provide is professional, efficient and helpful to though the Net Promoter Score focusing on customer service for all buying their new home.
All developments CUSTOMER SURVEYS make the home buying process as straightforward employees.
To date around 105 training now have a Helping Create a Better We use customer satisfaction surveys Launch an interactive way of communicating and enjoyable as possible.
Our levels of customer courses have been delivered covering Future: Our Guide to More Sustainable undertaken by an independent external with our customers, My Home Plus service aim to be comparable to other top brands.
more than 500 staff and extending beyond Living brochure which includes an agency to measure how well we are meeting All our customers are provided with a commitment just customer-facing employees.
We are insert showing site-specific sustainability Market all our developments in the UK first our customers expectations.
All of our delighted that our St James business features.
An interactive version of the that when they buy a new home from Berkeley private purchasers are asked to complete became the first housebuilder to achieve brochure is available online to show what they can be safe in the knowledge that it is built to a survey, and this year 98% of our customers ServiceMark accreditation.
we incorporate into our developments very high standards of design and quality, has low reported that they would recommend and suggest ways that customers can live environmental impact and that they will enjoy an TRAINING Berkeley to a friend 2013: 98%.
An intensive Lets Talk Sales training begin to use the Net Promoter Score NPS exceptional customer experience.
Each customer i programme took place for all sales staff as an indicator of customer satisfaction Learn more about Customers at receives tailored information relating to their in summer 2013 and a number of online and will publish this in future years berkeleygroup.
co. uk our-vision purchase and has a dedicated point of contact training modules were also launched.
Along to benchmark ourselves out of sector throughout the customer journey.
with training of existing employees, we have against world-class companies.
also run our second Sales Academy.
This aims to bring talented individuals from other industries into the business and provides OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 2014 them with a structured training programme before they are placed in a role.
COMMITMENT PROGRESS Provide every customer with a Berkeley Customer Satisfaction Commitment Provide user-friendly quick start instructions and guides for running a home Survey every customer to measure satisfaction and target that at least 95% of our customers would recommend us to a friend Train sales staff in sustainability so that they are able to sell the benefits to customers Produce a Berkeley Sustainable Living Guide in conjunction with NGOs for use in sales & marketing suites, at handover, as well as an interactive version of the Guide for our website Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved 1 TRAINING RECOMMENDATIONS CUSTOMER SERVICE 1 Sales staff at Goodmans Fields 2 Highwood, Horsham 105 98% 1st accredited Institute of customers would housebuilder to achieve of Customer Service recommend us to Institute of Customer Services courses for staff a friend ServiceMark St James 2 28 29 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: OUR VISION continued HOMES Develop individually designed, high quality homes with low environmental impact.
OUR APPROACH OUR HEADLINE COMMITMENTS FOR 2014 2016 Each of our homes and developments is bespoke We have set three stretching commitments in the and we use qualified architects to design each area of Homes to continue to improve our approach: scheme.
Attention to detail in design is paramount Enable fibre broadband on all our new homes to ensure homes meet the needs of our customers and provide community Wi-Fi and our specifications are planned to meet the Guarantee space standards for all new homes varied needs of all types of homebuyers, from 2 luxurious houses to key worker apartments.
The Launch a new R&D programme to utilise impact on the environment throughout the lifetime customer feedback and drive innovation of the home is considered during its design with an through improved design aim to minimise impacts and provide home owners with the opportunity to live more sustainably.
The high quality finish which we demand in our new homes requires a skilled workforce and thorough checks before handover.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 2014 1 3 COMMITMENT PROGRESS 1 Lime Grove Mews Develop minimum design standards on all Berkeley homes including standards for sound 2 Roehampton House insulation, space, storage and overheating 3 Wimbledon Hill Park Carry out post-occupancy monitoring of electricity, water and gas heat consumption in order to measure the success of our designs and to influence the design of future schemes BESPOKE DESIGN number of design awards to corroborate ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE There is no generic Berkeley scheme.
The five storey, five In the last twelve months, more stringent Undertake R&D to understand the implications of the Governments proposed zero carbon design is bespoke and we use architects on bedroom home at Lime Grove Mews won building regulations for energy have standard on our future developments every project, something which is uncommon the coveted Grand Prix Award and the been introduced, but we are awaiting the within the industry.
Our designers range Best Family Home Award in the London implementation of significant changes Design all new homes to achieve at least Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes from world-famous architects like Foster Evening Standards 2013 Awards for its arising from the Governments Housing Partners working on The Corniche on thoughtful design and flexible interiors.
The Group provided Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Albert Embankment, to smaller practices a response to the consultation in autumn ATTENTION TO DETAIL like BHP Harwood producing an intelligent 2013 supporting the intention to simplify The quality which we demand in our new design to restore a magnificent Grade II the large and complex range of local and homes requires a skilled workforce and listed building at St Josephs Gate in Mill Hill.
national standards, rules and codes that attention to detail.
We use our marketing We continue to promote good urban design housebuilders face.
On a site-by-site basis, suites as the benchmark for build quality across the industry through sponsorship of we continue to reach high environmental HOME WORKING SUSTAINABILITY RECYCLING and finish in each individual home.
the London Festival of Architecture.
For example, some of the Every area is thoroughly checked before deepest ground source heat pump PRE-PLANNING handover to ensure that high standards boreholes in London will provide up to The design of each project is scrutinised are maintained.
Electronic systems to 100% 100% 93% 60% of the heating demand at Riverlight intensely at all stages.
We have regular manage post-handover maintenance have in Nine Elms.
new homes designed new homes to be certified completed homes provided project design meetings to review the been introduced in areas of the business for home working to at least Code Level 3 with recycling facilities i specification involving each relevant team to assist with this process to ensure good Learn more about Homes at at every level of the business.
We use record keeping and timely close-out.
co. uk our-vision focus groups to influence future schemes have also undertaken studies of occupied by asking potential residents about the homes to investigate aspects such as design features and level of specification air quality with specialist monitoring they would require.
Whilst the key measure equipment and air leakage through of successful design is satisfied customers, thermal imaging.
we are proud to have been awarded a 30 31 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: OUR VISION continued PLACES Create great places where people enjoy a good quality of life, now and in the future.
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PARTNERSHIPS Other opportunities may arise for the During 2014 we have further developed We have a commitment to genuine community to get involved in the final and launched our framework for creating partnership working.
Partnership scheme, such as a competition at the successful places.
This sets out a structured arrangements need to be tailored to suit Phoenix School local to White City to approach to placemaking and applying the each project, skillfully co-ordinating the design an area of proposed public space.
main ideas behind social sustainability to investment and ambitions of Berkeley, OUR APPROACH OUR HEADLINE COMMITMENTS FOR 2014 2016 ECOLOGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE new housing and mixed-use developments.
the local authority, residents, Registered We continue to seek advice from ecologists The criteria reflect issues which are Social Landlords and other stakeholders.
We create well-designed, high quality, safe and We have set three stretching commitments in the on each scheme, incorporate living roofs important to people and communities, We listen to what local people and other sustainable places which will endure as settled, area of Places to continue to improve our approach: and build sites well-connected for public such as links with neighbours, access to partners want and incorporate this into vibrant communities long into the future.
Our approach to ecology was Measure and increase peoples quality of life by transport, feelings of safety, positive local the design wherever possible.
are places where people choose to live, work and noted as part of our achievement of the applying a framework for social sustainability identity and the ability to influence what COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Queens Award for Enterprise in Sustainable spend their time, that directly encourage peoples goes on.
The framework is now used in the Our Community Engagement Strategy Development.
In 2014 we completed a Adapt all developments to climate change wellbeing and quality of life, and offer them a space design of all our new schemes, and those was updated in 2014 to reflect current piece of research on climate change through measures on flooding, overheating and a base from which to lead safe and fulfilling of 100 homes or more conduct formal best practice and is referred to for all new adaptation measures to be incorporated and water shortage lives.
Through our ability both to collaborate and to workshops to debate and prioritise the key schemes.
The type of engagement varies in developments, and to be considered issues.
Results from residents at our longerdeliver, we aim to be the developer of choice for local Test new forms of estate management and depending on the scheme and location.
77% of new term developments have been positive: authorities and existing communities.
We believe Many of our schemes adopt community developments between 2012 and 2014 community governance at Woodberry Park 90% feel satisfied that appreciating the needs of our customers and planning strategies where local people are were designed to incorporate adaptation with their life overall compared to 60% wider stakeholders before, during and after the involved in the design, and at London Dock measures.
It is one of our headline nationally and at Royal Arsenal Riverside additional outreach events were held to commitments for 2014 to 2016 to delivery of our schemes and what makes them 84% plan to remain in the neighbourhood engage parts of the community which were incorporate measures on all schemes.
thrive as a community, is the right model for a truly compared to 68% nationally.
We are under-represented during the engagement successful and sustainable business in our sector.
i proud to have won Property Company Learn more about Places at programme, such as young people, older of the Year Residential at the Estates berkeleygroup.
co. uk our-vision people and ethnic minorities.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 2014 1 Cornerstone Caf, Royal Arsenal Riverside 2 Dial Arch Pub, Royal Arsenal Riverside COMMITMENT PROGRESS Work with experts to develop metrics to assess the social sustainability of our developments and pilot the metrics on at least one completed development Conduct post-occupancy evaluation to assess the in-use success of community facilities e. g. sports facilities, public realm, open space, childrens activities Work with residents, commercial occupiers, local businesses and the local community on at least one mixed-use development to promote local employment opportunities Put in place adaptation measures on all developments to address future climate change risks Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY S106 CYCLE STORAGE 20 333m 92% assessments completed S106 contributions over new sites designed to under our new social the last five years incorporate cycle storage sustainability framework 1 2 32 33 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: OUR VISION continued OPERATIONS Make the right long-term decisions whilst running the business efficiently and working with our supply chain.
OUR APPROACH OUR HEADLINE COMMITMENTS FOR 2014 2016 Through recognition that the property market is We have set ourselves three stretching inherently cyclical we make decisions with a focus commitments in the area of Operations to on the long-term.
We understand the operational further improve our approach: risks in trying to successfully identify, design, build Achieve a 50% increase in site-based and sell homes and create new places.
We aspire apprenticeships and training to maintain excellent partnerships with our supply Launch a 2 million fund for the supply chain chain to ensure that high quality services and to support innovation in health and safety materials are consistently provided and we are a 2 client of choice.
We support and engage with our Map our supply chain risks and supply chain and, through our supply chain, we 1 Royal Arsenal Riverside develop a sustainable specification 2 Roman House help to provide employment and support to young and procurement strategy people.
We conduct our day-to-day operations in an environmentally efficient manner and with consideration to our neighbours.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2012 2014 1 COMMITMENT PROGRESS Integrate an assessment of the sustainability of products, suppliers and contractors into the formal selection process SUPPLY CHAIN APPRENTICESHIPS AND TRAINING We were delighted that one third of our Register all sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme and achieve a minimum of Once schemes are in production, the The Construction 2025 strategy set out schemes were recognised at the 2014 35 points out of 50 in site audits 32 out of 40 prior to January 2013 support of a reliable and competent supply a number of challenges for industry and National Site Awards, including two chain is critical to success.
Engagement Government, including invigorating the which achieved Most Considerate Site Reduce average site carbon dioxide emissions by 3% per site operative by May 2014 with our suppliers is key to remaining a industrys image, particularly to young Runner-Up status which ranks them in the client of choice and achieving high quality people, and increasing capability in the top 27 construction sites in the country.
Reduce average site water consumption by 3% per site operative by May 2014 outcomes, on time and on budget.
Spot checks indicate that ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT chain conferences were held by several of nearly 10% of our workforce of 11,000 Re-use or recycle over 85% of construction, demolition and excavation waste Site carbon emissions per person have our operating companies during 2014 and contractors on our sites is in formal reduced by 17%, with total emissions of a supply chain task force was established.
training, including 2% currently working 16,908 tonnes CO e from site activities 2 Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Risks in the supply chain have been as an apprentice.
During the same period our assessed based on current and future training has been boosted through the water consumption has increased by market conditions and feedback requested employment of workplace co-ordinators: 3%: principally this was due to significant from more than 100 of our suppliers: 75% 74 apprentices have been working across demolition operations requiring dust said that working with the Group allowed 11 sites during the year.
Alongside our suppression and landscaping works.
their business to improve its own value.
efforts with apprentices and training, we FEEDBACK CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTORS ENERGY Our waste recycling rate has increased also aim to encourage young people into In 2015 we plan to further strengthen our to 94% 2013: 93%.
Further information the industry through a series of talks and relationships with the supply chain through on carbon emissions is set out within events with schools and colleges.
the Directors report on page 82.
100 40.6 50 17% An innovation fund of up to 2 million will CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTION i Learn more about Operations at suppliers contacted to obtain average Considerate reduction in operational carbon be made available to support our supply All of our construction sites are registered berkeleygroup.
co. uk our-vision feedback on our role as client Constructors Scheme score emissions per site operative chain, and particularly small businesses, in under the voluntary Considerate Constructors targeting health and safety performance Scheme CCS and its Code of Practice.
Our average audit score of 40.6 50 is far in excess of the industry average of 35.5.
