Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Directors conicts of interest US law and regulation All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock conict of interest or possible conict with the company.
The duty Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity whether or not the company could take advantage of it.
NYSE rules Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to authorise such In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK conicts.
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided that we explain any significant variations.
This The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board to explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any from the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR potential or actual conict authorisations.
Directors are not database or via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or 2005 require us to le annual and interim written afrmations potential conicts.
Authorisations granted are recorded by the concerning the Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board.
significant differences in corporate governance.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conicts Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her largely with financial reporting and corporate governance.
statutory duty to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose to As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential relations.
conict authorisations in October 2014 and reported to the Board that the conicts had been appropriately authorised and that the External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
Except are invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, Related party for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility or connected person had any material interest in any contract of for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the formal review of signicance with a Group company.
the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2014, the Committee met 11 times.
Independent advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal contain a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an Committee ARC is an audit committee financial expert as dened agreed procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them by Sarbanes-Oxley.
Such a statement for each of the relevant to do so.
members of the ARC Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan is included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page indemnification of Directors 87 and in their biographies on pages 74 and 75.
Additional Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in the disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and former Directors who held ofce during 2014 and up to the signing procedures and internal control over financial reporting.
Change of control and essential contracts We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in the companys framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given on pages 124 and 125.
GSK Annual Report 2014 247 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and internal control over financial reporting based on the framework, the CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F Commission COSO based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F there have been no changes in the Groups internal control over contains no material misstatements or omissions financial reporting during 2014 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other control over financial reporting financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report on over financial reporting as at 31 December 2014 and its Form 20-F conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F, and they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure  LLP, which has audited the consolidated controls and procedures that ensure that material information is financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of 2014, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
5 of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Form 20-F Their audit report will be led with the Groups Form 20-F. they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal Section 13 r of the US Securities Exchange Act control over financial reporting that provides reasonable Section 13 r of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and amended, requires issuers to make specic disclosure in their Annual the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Reports of certain types of dealings with Iran, including transactions accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or dealings with government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.
The Group period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have does not have a legal entity based in Iran, but it does export certain materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, pharmaceutical and vaccine products to Iran, via sales by non-US the companys internal control over financial reporting, and they entities, to two privately held Iranian distributors.
The Group also have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal does business, via non-US entities, in other jurisdictions targeted by control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the sanctions laws, including Syria, Crimea, North Korea and Sudan.
We ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the do not believe that any of the Groups direct dealings with Iran design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting require specic disclosure under these requirements, and the Group which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the companys limits sales to Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan and Cuba to essential ability to record, process, summarise and report financial medicines determined in part using criteria set by the World Health information, and any fraud regardless of materiality involving Organization.
The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of persons that have a significant role in the companys internal its distributors downstream customers in Iran, and it is possible that control over financial reporting.
these customers include entities, such as government-owned The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly or and with the participation of its management, including the CEO indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at Because the Group has no direct knowledge of its distributors 31 December 2014. customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities afliated with the Iranian There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
As a of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues 0.2 million of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and net losses 1.36 million from the Groups sales to Iran in 2014. and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical achieving their control objectives.
facilities in Lebanon may be afliated with or controlled by Hezbollah, which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organization.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls through a distributor.
The Group is also unable to identify with and procedures in February 2015, following which the certicates certainty the degree or nature of any afliation of the end customers will be led with the SEC as part of our Groups Form 20-F. with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable over financial reporting entities.
As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes- 41 million and net profits 16.3 million from the Groups sales to Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect Lebanon in 2014. of the companys internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS 248 GSK Annual Report 2014
