Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Glossary of terms Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accelerated capital allowances T ax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of xed assets that delay the charging and payment of tax.
The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing title to an AD S. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares ADS Listed on the New York Stock Exchange: represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA In 20 12, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to past sales and marketing practices.
As part of the settlement the company entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services, under which improvements are being built into its existing compliance programmes.
Currency swap An exc hange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Dened benefit plan Pension plan with specic employee benets, often called final salary scheme.
Dened contribution plan Pension plan with specic contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders funds Shareholders equity.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible xed assets Assets without physical subst ance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable.
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
GSK Annual Report 2014 251 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Index Page Page Accounting principles and policies 140 Late-stage pipeline summary 29 Acquisitions and disposals 183 Legal proceedings 206 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Long-term Incentive plans 101 cash ows 181 Major restructuring costs 154 Annual General Meeting 2015 245 Movements in equity 179 Assets held for sale 166 Net debt 176 Associates and joint ventures 155 New accounting requirements 146 Cash and cash equivalents 166 Non-Executive Directors fees 110 CEOs statement 4 Notes to the financial statements 140 Chairmans statement 2 Operating profit 152 Commitments 189 Other intangible assets 162 Committee reports 85 Other investments 165 Competition 10 Other non-current assets 165 Consolidated balance sheet 137 Other non-current liabilities 176 Consolidated cash ow statement 139 Other operating income 151 Consolidated income statement 136 Other provisions 175 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 138 Our Board 72 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 136 Our business 18 Consumer Healthcare products and competition 231 Our people 44 Contingent liabilities 176 Our strategy priorities 12 Corporate Executive Team 76 Outlook 5 Corporate governance 78 Pensions and other post-employment benets 167 Critical accounting policies 63 Pharmaceutical products, competition and Directors and senior management 118 intellectual property 229 Directors interests in shares 111Pipeline 229 Directors statement of responsibilities 130 Presentation of the financial statements 140 Dividends 158 Principal Group companies 204 Donations to political organisations and Property, plant and equipment 158 political expenditure 246 Proposed Novartis transaction 203 Earnings per share 158 Quarterly trend 218 Employee costs 153 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 182 Employee share schemes 200Registrar 249 Exchange rates 146 Related party transactions 181 Executive Director remuneration 97 Relations with shareholders 84 Finance expense 155 Remuneration policy report 119 Finance income 154 Remuneration report 96 Financial instruments and related disclosures 190 Research and development 24,32,34 Financial position and resources 65 Responsible business 36 Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Risk factors 232 under UK GAAP 211 Segment information 147 Five year record 222 Share capital and control 242 Glossary of terms 251 Share capital and share premium account 178 Goodwill 160 Share price 242 Group financial review 52 Shareholder information 242 Independent Auditors report 131Taxation 156 Inventories 166 Tax information for shareholders 244 Investments in associates and joint ventures 164 The Remuneration Committee 108 Investor relations 250 Trade and other payables 167 Key accounting judgements and estimates 144 Trade and other receivables 166 Key performance indicators 14 US law and regulation 247 252 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information About GSK Notice regarding limitations on GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an Director Liability under English Law Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits English public limited company on 6 December the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors Report for which see page 1999.
We were formed by a merger between 95, the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
Under English law the Directors would be liable to the Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or plc.
GSK acquired these two English companies knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would otherwise not be liable.
Pages 71 on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger to 95, 130, 211 and 232 to 248 inclusive comprise the Directors Report, pages 2 to 70 inclusive comprise the Strategic report and pages 96 to 118 inclusive comprise arrangements.
the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the Our shares are listed on the London Stock limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Notwithstanding the references we make in this Annual Report to GSKs website, none of the Read more at www.
com information made available on the website constitutes part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference herein.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The Groups reports led with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these Here you will nd downloadable PDFs of: include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or Annual Report 2014 results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal Annual Summary 2014 proceedings, and financial results.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Form 20-F Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking Responsible Business Supplement 2014 statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes and or les with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors that are beyond the Groups control or precise estimate.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could Brand names cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report or implied in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors are trade marks either owned by and or licensed to GSK include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk or associated companies, with the exception of Boniva factors on pages 232 - 241 of this Annual Report.
Any Bonviva, a trade mark of Roche, NicoDerm, a trade forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the mark of Johnson & Johnson, Merrell, Novartis, Sano or Group speak only as of the date they are made and are GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trade mark of Valeant, Prolia based upon the knowledge and information available to the and Xgeva, trade marks of Amgen, Vesicare, a trade mark Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in many countries and of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, Volibris, A number of adjusted measures are used to report the a trade mark of Gilead, Xyzal, a trade mark of UCB or GSK performance of our business.
These measures are dened and Zyrtec, a trade mark of UCB or GSK all of which are on page 52 and a reconciliation of core results to total used in certain countries under licence by the Group.
results is set out on page 61.
Acknowledgements The information in this document does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline Design plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other Salterbaxter investment activities.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Printing Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
Paper This Annual Report is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certication.
All pulps used are made from 100% fide-inked, post-consumer waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel certicates for environmental management.
B GSK Annual Report 2014 Doctors like Kaali pictured are on the frontline against malaria.
He works in Ghana, where he treats children with malaria and educates families about how to prevent the disease.
Along with our partners, we are committed to ghting malaria on all fronts from improving access to medicines, to encouraging use of preventative tools like bed nets, and searching for new treatments as well as developing a potential vaccine.
Head Ofce and Registered Ofce GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS You can also search for us here United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792
