Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder services and contacts Registrar The companys registrar is: Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA www.
co. uk Tel: 0871 384 2991 in the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: Service What it offers How to participate Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may A DRIP election form can be DRIP choose to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK downloaded from shares.
co. uk or requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through A dividend bank mandate form can be account Bank Mandate the post, you can instead have them paid directly into your downloaded from bank or building society account.
co. uk or secure and avoids the risk of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the bank account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency costs involved please contact Equiniti.
and send it direct to your local bank account.
This service is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notications You can register at of company communications including our Annual Report, www.
co. uk dividend payments if paid by way of a Bank Mandate, access to electronic tax vouchers and the availability of online voting for all general meetings.
Each time GSK mails out hard copy shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view You can register at: your share balance and movements, update your address www.
co. uk and dividend payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other Please contact Equiniti.
mailings, please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certicated For internet transactions, please log on please note that market trading hours form or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by to www.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, internet, telephone or by a postal dealing service provided For telephone transactions, please call Monday to Friday, excluding UK public by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
For postal transactions, please call 0871 384 2991 to request a dealing form.
An application form can be downloaded Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring a share certicate.
The service provides a facility from for you to hold your shares in a nominee company www.
co. uk or sponsored by the company.
You will continue to receive requested by telephoning Equiniti.
dividend payments, annual reports and can attend and vote at the companys general meetings.
Shareholders names do not appear on the publicly available share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK www.
co. uk or can be Ordinary Shares.
UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, and calls to the number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
GSK Annual Report 2014 249 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued ADR Depositary Contacts The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York Investor relations Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services UK PO Box 30170 980 Great West Road College Station, TX 77842-3170 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Overnight correspondence should be sent to: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services USA 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 Five Crescent Drive College Station, TX 77845 Philadelphia PA 19112 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free www.
com Tel: 1 215 751 4611 outside the USA Tel: 1 877 353 1154 US toll free Tel: 1 201 680 6825 outside the USA GSK Response Center email: shrrelations@.
com Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS Share scam alert purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy For details of how to enrol please visit www.
com or call your shares, please take extra care.
The caller may be part of a the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct Corporate PEPs Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities, The Share Centre Limited at www.
uk consumers or on its consumer helpline: Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0845 606 1234 in the UK Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, www.
com Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays.
Donating shares to Save the Children Responsible Business Supplement In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2014 Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the online.
This will outline GSKs approach to, and performance in, aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
our key responsible business areas, Health for all, Our behaviour, Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Our people and Our planet.
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to Save the Children.
Donated shares will be aggregated and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them reach the above goal.
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, who is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to Save the Children free of charge.
