GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to maintaining Approval of policies in key areas including for ensuring that each Director contributes Members of the Audit and Remuneration consider in good faith will be most likely to David Howell, Andy Myers and Glyn Barker a high standard of corporate governance Sustainability, Health & Safety and to effective decision-making.
The Group Committees received briefings from promote the Companys success.
are all considered to have recent and relevant in respect of leadership, effectiveness, Business Ethics.
Managing Director has day-to-day executive our auditors and remuneration advisers experience.
David Howell is qualified as a The Company has established a procedure accountability, remuneration and responsibility for the running of the Groups respectively to ensure they remain up to date chartered accountant and was the Chief COMPOSITION, DIVERSITY AND whereby actual and potential conflicts of relationships with our shareholders as businesses.
His role is to develop and with current regulations and developments.
Financial Officer and a Main Board Director INDEPENDENCE interest of current and proposed roles to be identified by the UK Corporate Governance deliver the strategy to enable the Group to of lastminute.
com plc: Andy Myers is At the date of this report the Board All Directors have access to advice from undertaken by Directors of the Board with Code 2012 the Code.
In the year to meet its objectives.
qualified as a chartered accountant and is comprises fourteen Directors: the Chairman, the Company Secretary and independent other organisations are regularly reviewed 30 April 2014, the revised principles and currently Chief Financial Officer at McLaren five Executive Directors and eight MEETINGS professional advisers, at the Companys in respect of both the nature of those roles, provisions of the Code published In Group Limited: and Glyn Barker is also independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board met five times during 2013 14 and expense, where specific expertise is required and their time commitment, and for proper September 2012 by the Financial Reporting qualified as a chartered accountant, having The biographies of these directors are set there were no absences.
in the course of their duties.
authorisation to be sought prior to the Council FRC applied to the Company.
previously held a number of senior posts out on page 48. appointment of any new director.
The Board In addition to the above formal meetings BOARD EVALUATION within PwC including Managing Partner and This section, including the Audit Committee consider these procedures to be working During the year, Alan Coppin stepped down of the whole Board, the Non-executive The Code requires that the Board Head of Assurance.
Upon David Howells Report and the Remuneration Report detail effectively.
from the Board and Adrian Li was appointed Directors meet with the Group Chairman.
undertakes an annual evaluation of its own retirement from the Board at the Annual how the Company has applied the principles as an Independent Non-executive Director The Group Managing Director and Group performance and that of its committees INSURANCE General Meeting on 1 September 2014, the and provisions of the Code.
The Companys at the Annual General Meeting on Finance Director are invited to attend these and individual directors with an externally The Company had in place at 30 April 2014 Committee will be chaired by Andy Myers.
business model is explained in the Strategic 2 September 2013.
On 6 December 2013, meetings in part, to provide an update on facilitated evaluation conducted every three an appropriate policy which insures Directors Report.
It is the Boards view that it has been The Committee met formally on three Andy Myers was also appointed as an the business activities of the Group.
Having sought the services of an against certain liabilities, including legal fully compliant with the Code throughout occasions during the year to 30 April 2014 Independent Non-executive Director.
Non-executive Directors meet at least independent externally facilitated third party costs, which they may incur in carrying out the 2013 14 financial year other than with no absences.
On 1 May 2014, Diana Brightmore-Armour annually without the Group Chairman for the 2013 evaluation, the Board evaluation their duties.
in respect of the composition of the was appointed as an Independent Nonpresent, chaired by the Senior Independent for 2014 was carried out by the Group An explanation of the role and activities Remuneration Committee on which there BOARD COMMITTEES executive Director.
Solicitor and covered: of the Audit committee during the year is were two rather than three independent The Board has delegated certain matters contained in the Audit Committee report on The Board has evolved over recent years to Non-executive Directors between Board papers and agendas are sent out Strategic matters to individual Executives and to the pages 54 to 55. put in place the succession planning that 2 September 2013 and 30 April 2014. in the week prior to each meeting, thus specific committees of the Board: audit, Board structure, committees and their all successful organisations require and the The Group has been fully compliant since allowing sufficient time for detailed review remuneration and nomination.
The main REMUNERATION COMMITTEE operation composition of the Board continues to be 1 May 2014 when Andy Myers was appointed and consideration of the documents three Board Committees operate within The Remuneration Committee is responsible reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that an to the committee.
A copy of the Code is beforehand.
In addition, the Board is Succession planning clearly defined Terms of Reference pursuant for determining the Companys policy for appropriate balance of skills is maintained.
available on the Financial Reporting Councils supplied with comprehensive management to the provisions of the Code.
The Terms Executive remuneration and the precise Induction and development The Board has chosen not to set specific website www.
uk information on a regular basis.
of Reference can be downloaded from the terms of employment and remuneration of representation targets for women at Board Assessment of the performance of section dealing with Investor Relations on the the Executive Directors.
THE BOARD ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS level at this time.
However, it recognises individual committees and the Chairman Berkeley website www.
ROLE The Articles of Association of the Company At 30 April 2014, the Committee comprised that the benefits of diversity, including Copies are also available to shareholders on The Board has a collective responsibility include the requirement for Directors to Shareholder communication Glyn Barker and Sir John Armitt who are gender diversity, will continue to be an active application to the Company Secretary.
for promoting the long term success of the submit themselves to shareholders for both independent Non-executive Directors.
consideration when further changes to the The unanimous outcome of the review was Company in a safe and sustainable manner in re-election every three years.
In addition, The responsibilities of the key Board The Committee was chaired by Glyn Barker.
that the Board works very well and that all the order to create shareholder value.
The Board all Directors are subject to election by committees are described below.
On 1 May 2014 Andy Myers was appointed to Directors are passionate about the business, The Board considers that all of the current provides leadership and sets the Companys shareholders at the first opportunity after the Committee.
and that they enjoy their role on the Board.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Non-executive Directors were independent strategic long-term objectives.
their appointment and thereafter at intervals The Executive Committee meets monthly The Committee met formally on two throughout the year.
David Howell joined of no more than three years.
The Board has a pivotal role in preserving Its duties are set out in a formal schedule of and reviews the financial and operating occasions during the year to April 2014 with the Board in February 2004 and has now the organisations culture and ultimately matters specifically reserved for decision by However, in accordance with the performance of all Group divisions and no absences.
served more than nine years on the Board.
In line with all successful the Board, which include: requirements of the Code, all Directors offer companies.
The Group Managing Director, At the Annual General Meeting on organisations, succession planning is seen as No Director is involved in deciding his or themselves for re-election at the Annual Rob Perrins, chairs this Committee and 1 September 2014, David Howell will step Overall management of the Group, its a key focus for the Company and the Board her remuneration.
The Executive Directors General Meeting on 1 September 2014, other members comprise, Tony Pidgley, down from the Board.
The Non-executive strategy and long-term objectives: continues to evolve to address this issue.
decide the remuneration of the Nonother than David Howell who is standing Nick Simpkin, Karl Whiteman, Sean Ellis Directors, led by the Senior Independent The autonomous structure of the Group also executive Directors and the Committee takes Approval of corporate plans: down from the Board.
and Greg Fry alongside other senior Director Sir John Armitt, have the skills, provides strength in depth which further into consideration the recommendations of management.
experience, independence and knowledge Approval of all corporate transactions: INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT mitigates this risk.
the Group Managing Director and Group of the Company to enable them to discharge On appointment, Non-executive Directors AUDIT COMMITTEE Finance Director regarding the remuneration Changes to the Groups capital structure: An action plan has been agreed by the Board their respective duties and responsibilities are provided with a detailed induction The Audit Committee is responsible for of their Executive colleagues.
to address the recommendations made from effectively.
Approval of the Groups treasury policy: programme.
This covers an overview of the monitoring and reviewing the financial the review.
The principles and details of Directors Groups operations and its policies, corporate reporting and accounting policies of the The Group Executive Directors do not hold Approval of the Groups interim and remuneration are contained in the responsibility and corporate affairs issues, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Company, reviewing the adequacy of internal any Non-executive Director appointments or annual results, dividend policy and Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 80. legal matters, and the opportunity to meet In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, controls and the activities of the Groups commitments required to be disclosed under shareholder distributions: with Directors and key staff and to visit the the Companys Articles of Association allow internal audit function and overseeing NOMINATION COMMITTEE the Code.
Reviewing the Groups risks and system of Groups sites.
the Board to authorise potential conflicts the relationship with the external auditor.
The Nomination Committee ensures that the CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING DIRECTOR internal control: of interest that may arise and to impose The Audit Committee comprises five membership and composition of the Board, No training needs were identified this year, The roles of Group Chairman and Group such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
including the balance of skills, is appropriate, Changes to the Board and other senior although ongoing training is available to Managing Director are separately held decision to authorise a conflict of interest can The Committee is chaired by David Howell as well as giving full consideration to executive roles: all Directors to meet their individual needs.
and there are clear written guidelines only be made by non-conflicted Directors and the other members at 30 April 2014 succession planning on a regular basis.
Board members also receive guidance to support the division of responsibility Corporate Governance arrangements and those who have no interest in the matter were Alison Nimmo, Andy Myers, Glyn Barker on regulatory matters and the corporate The Committee is chaired by the Group between them.
The Group Chairman is the Board evaluation: and being considered and in making such a and Veronica Wadley.
governance framework that the Group Chairman, Tony Pidgley and the Independent responsible for the effective conduct of decision the Directors must act in a way they operates under.
Non-executive members at 30 April 2014 the Board and shareholder meetings and 50 51 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued were David Howell, Sir John Armitt and throughout the operating companies, CENTRAL FUNCTIONS the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Veronica Wadley.
David Howell will step divisions and at Group.
Strong central functions, including Legal, Director and the Chairmen of the Audit, down from the Committee on 1 September Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, Remuneration and Nomination Committees RISK ASSESSMENT 2014. provide support and consistency to the will be available to answer questions and Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal will also be available for discussions with The Committee met formally on two management reporting throughout the treasury-related risks, decisions and control shareholders both prior to and after the occasions during the year to 30 April 2014 Group.
At operating company and divisional processes are managed by the Group meeting.
level, Board meeting agendas and packs Finance function, under the direction of the are structured around the key risks facing In accordance with the Code, the Company During the year, the activities of the Group Finance Director.
These risks include health and arranges for the Annual Report and Committee included considering and making safety, sales, production build cost and INTERNAL AUDIT Accounts and related papers to be posted recommendations to the Board regarding programme, land and planning, economic, Internal auditors are in place at divisional to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 the membership of the Board committees regulatory and site specific matters.
and Group level to provide assurance on the working days for consideration prior to the and reviewing succession plans for the operation of the Groups control framework.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly WHISTLEBLOWING The Company complies with the provisions The process for identifying and risks and control reports that identify The Group has a whistleblowing policy which of the Code relating to the disclosure of recommending new appointments significant risks, the potential impact and has been communicated to all staff, where proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are includes a combination of discussions the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
Directors, management and staff can report declared at the AGM after each resolution and consultations, in addition to formal These risk reports are reviewed and updated in confidence any concerns they may have of has been dealt with on a show of hands and interviews, utilising the services of regularly.
malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches of are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly independent recruitment specialists, as any Group procedures, or other matters.
after the close of the meeting.
A Group Risk Management Report is also complies with the requirements of the presented at each Group Main Board BRIBERY ACT KEY RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL Code with the separation of resolutions and Meeting, setting out the current factors The Board has responsibility for complying The Board acknowledges that it has overall the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board affecting the risk profile of the Group, the with the requirements of the Bribery Act responsibility for ensuring that the Groups Committees.
mitigation of these risks and the key changes 2010 and is charged with overseeing the system of internal control comply with the UK to this risk profile since the last report.
development and implementation of The terms and conditions of appointment for Corporate Governance Code 2012 and for the Groups policies and procedures and the Non-executive Directors, which set out reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
FINANCIAL REPORTING monitoring ongoing compliance.
their expected time commitment, in addition A comprehensive budgeting and real-time Internal control procedures are designed to the service contracts for the Executive forecasting system, covering both profit RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS to manage rather than eliminate the risk Directors, are available for inspection at the and cash, operates within the Group.
This The Company encourages active dialogue of failure to achieve business objectives, AGM and during normal business hours at enables executive management to view with its current and prospective shareholders and can only provide reasonable and the Companys registered office.
key financial and operating data on a daily through ongoing meetings with institutional not absolute assurance against material basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more investors.
Major shareholders have the misstatement or loss.
formal reporting up to the Group Executives opportunity to meet all Directors after the There are ongoing processes and procedures is prepared.
The results of all operating units Annual General Meeting in addition to for identifying, evaluating and managing the are reported monthly and compared to individual meetings with the Company.
significant risks faced by the Group.
Shareholders are also kept up to date processes and procedures were in place from There is a consolidation process in place with the Companys activities through the the start of the financial year to the date on which ensures that there is an audit trail Annual and Interim Reports and Interim which the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts between the Groups financial reporting Management Statements.
In addition, the were approved and accord with the Turnbull system and the Groups statutory financial corporate website gives information on the guidance issued in 2005. statements.
Group and latest news, including regulatory The processes are regularly reviewed by the announcements.
The presentations made INVESTMENT AND CONTRACTING CONTROLS Board and include an annual review by the after the announcement of the preliminary The Group has clearly defined guidelines Directors of the operation and effectiveness and interim results are also available on the for the purchase and sale of land within the of the system of internal control as part of its website.
Group, which include detailed environmental, year end procedures.
The key features of the planning and financial appraisal and are The Board is kept informed of the views system of internal control include: subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous of the shareholders through periodic CLEAR ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE procedures are also followed for the reports from the Companys broker UBS.
The Group operates through autonomous selection of consultants and contractors.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors divisions and operating companies, each with The review and monitoring of all build have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual its own board.
Operating company boards programmes and budgets are a fundamental analyst presentations.
meet on a weekly basis and divisional boards element of the Companys financial The Senior Independent Director is available on a monthly basis, and comprehensive reporting cycle.
to shareholders if they have concerns where information is prepared for such meetings POLICIES AND PROCEDURES contact through the normal channels has on a standardised basis to cover all aspects Policies and procedures, including operating failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
Formal reporting lines and financial controls, are detailed in policies and delegated levels of authority exist ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING and procedures manuals that are refreshed within this structure and the review of risk All shareholders are invited to participate in and improved as appropriate.
Training to and performance occurs at multiple levels the Annual General Meeting AGM where staff is given where necessary.
52 53 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Board of Directors presents its Audit The Committees review incorporated Revenue recognition a summary of the key findings arising from dialogue between the Chairman of the best practice under the UK Corporate Committee Report for the year ended consideration of the appropriateness of the The Committee recognises that the the most recent formal internal audits Audit Committee and the external auditors Governance Code 2012, and will monitor the 30 April 2014 which has been prepared on relevant accounting policies and financial Groups accounting policy for revenue undertaken: prior to each Audit Committee meeting proposals of the Financial Reporting Council the recommendation of the Audit Committee reporting judgements adopted therein.
recognition, namely that properties are and, after each meeting, the opportunity for and the European Union in determining its management responses to any control the Committee.
treated as sold and profits are recognised the Committee to meet with the external future approach to re-tendering.
The Committees review of the Annual Report weaknesses identified, the closure of any when contracts are exchanged and auditors without the Executive Directors and The report has been prepared in accordance concentrated on whether, taken as a whole, open items and any recurring themes: building work is physically complete, management present.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate it was fair, balanced and understandable and D HOWELL involves an element of judgement in the outcome of other operational review Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large provided the information necessary for users INDEPENDENCE OF THE EXTERNAL CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE determining the point at which building work undertaken by the internal audit AUDITORS & Medium-Sized Companies and Groups of the Annual Report to assess the Groups 11 JULY 2014 work is physically complete.
The function: As part of its audit strategy presentation, Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, business strategy and performance.
Committee reviewed the quantum of and through the audit tender process, KPMG and the Listing Rules of the Financial the internal audit plan for the coming year, The views of the Groups auditor, which properties not yet legally completed at identified the safeguards in place within its Conduct Authority.
for debate with and the approval of the was in attendance at each meeting of the each balance sheet date in conjunction internal processes and procedures to protect, Committee.
Details of the composition, experience and Committee during the year, were taken with the review undertaken by the Groups in respect of its own role, the independence the number of meetings of the Committee into account in reaching its conclusions on external auditor and concluded that the The Committee was satisfied that the scope, of its audit.
are reported on page 51 of the Corporate these matters.
extent and effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Committee has a policy on the use of Governance Report.
function are appropriate for the Group.
The significant matters considered by the Other matters considered by the Committee the auditors for non-audit services in order ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT Committee in 2014 included: included managements assessment of the EXTERNAL AUDIT to safeguard auditor independence and the COMMITTEE going concern status of the Group at the During the year, in accordance with ratio of audit fees including the fees for the Carrying value of inventories and The Committee has formal Terms of balance sheet date and the accounting evolving best practice, the Committee Interim Review to non-audit fees should be margin recognition Reference which set out its role and the for share-based payments, although no undertook a competitive tender process no greater than 1:1.
The ratio for the year Inventories comprise land not under authority delegated to it by the Board.
new share options have been granted in for the audit of the Company and its ended 30 April 2014 was within the limits of development, work in progress and The key responsibilities of the Committee the year.
The Committee concurred with subsidiaries for the year ended 30 April 2014. this ratio.
Audit and non-audit fee disclosures completed units, which are held in the are as follows: managements adopted approach on all of  LLP PwC and its are set out in Note 4 of the Consolidated balance sheet at the lower of cost and these matters.
predecessor firm had been Berkeleys auditor Financial Reporting Financial Statements.
This demands a since the Company first listed in 1984.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial periodic assessment by the management Since the year end, the Committee has Any departure from this ratio will only be as reporting of the Company and reviewing team of each of Berkeleys sites which completed its review of the 2014 Annual The tender process sought to assess a a consequence of transactional work, where significant financial reporting issues and is sensitive to assumptions in terms of Report and has confirmed to the Board combination of the tendering parties the Committee considers it is right for the accounting policies: future sales prices and construction costs that it considers it to be fair, balanced and understanding of the business, industry and auditors to undertake such work where the and recognises the inherently cyclical understandable.
related risks, their intended approach, the Internal Control and Internal Audit reasons for doing so are compelling, such as nature of the property market and the skills and experience of the proposed team Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness where: INTERNAL CONTROL AND INTERNAL AUDIT risks of delivery.
These assumptions are and a comprehensive plan to manage a of the Groups internal control and risk The Committee undertook its annual review i it is proprietary to them: also relevant to the determination of successful transition.
management systems and monitoring the of the Groups Internal Control Framework profit recognised on properties sold.
effectiveness of the Groups internal audit ii they have pre-existing knowledge and during the year.
This review focused on the Following this process, KPMG LLP KPMG The conclusions of this assessment were function: and experience that precludes the use of system of risk management and internal was appointed to fill a casual vacancy in reported by exception to the Committee alternative firms: control in place which is explained in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
External Audit in a financial overview paper prior to more detail on page 52 of the Corporate Overseeing the relationship with the iii the nature of the transaction is such that release of the Groups annual and interim APPROACH Governance Report, and covered: external auditor, including appointment, the Groups auditors are the only practical results.
KPMG presented its audit strategy at the removal and fees, and ensuring the solution.
the key risks facing the Group: first Audit Committee meeting following Provisions auditors independence and the their appointment.
The strategy document Non-audit work carried out by all accounting The Committee recognises that the key elements of the Groups control effectiveness of the audit process.
identified its assessment of the key risks of firms, including the auditors, is formally accounting for provisions relies on processes to mitigate these risks: the business for the purpose of the audit, This report considers each of these reported to the Audit Committee at each management judgement in estimating the operations and effectiveness of the scope of their work and updated the responsibilities in turn, and how the meeting.
There is open dialogue between the quantum and timing of outflows of internal audit.
Committee on regulatory changes for Committee has discharged them during KPMG and the Companys senior finance resources to settle any associated legal the current year.
KPMG also updated the the year.
team to monitor any proposed new or constructive obligations.
The Group A paper was also presented to the Committee on its interaction with PwC in instructions.
holds provisions for post-completion Committee which summarised the Groups FINANCIAL REPORTING respect of the handover of the external audit.
development obligations, onerous consideration, controls and monitoring of At each of the Audit Committee meetings, The Committee has concluded that lease and estate liabilities.
The basis fraud risk across its activities.
KPMG reported to the Committee at the the Group Finance Director Nick Simpkin it is comfortable that the auditors are for determining these provisions was year end, prior to the public announcement presented, and the Committee debated, the independent.
The Committee also considered any internal presented to the Committee for their of the Companys results, in which it set out results and business plan of the Group and control recommendations raised by the APPOINTMENT OF KPMG consideration.
The Committee reviewed its assessment of the Companys judgements any significant financial reporting judgements Groups auditors during the course of the On completion of the audit, the Committee the relevant papers and discussed the and estimates in respect of these risks and relevant to this.
external audit and the companys response reviewed the performance and effectiveness assumptions underlying this determination any other findings arising from its work.
to dealing with such recommendations.
The Committee reviewed, prior to their of KPMG with feedback from executive with management and the Groups Its work also included a review of the publication, the financial disclosures in management.
The Committee has resolved external auditor and concluded that it was A report summarising the recent activities adequacy of Berkeleys external reporting for the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, to propose KPMGs appointment at the 2014 satisfied that the assumptions adopted of the Internal Audit function within Berkeley compliance with prevailing regulations.
Preliminary Announcement, Interim Report Annual General Meeting.
A table of movements was presented to each of the Committee The external auditors have open recourse and the contents of interim management in provisions over the period is included in meetings during the year.
These reports In deciding to tender the audit this year, to the Non-executive Directors should statements issued during the year.
note 18 to the financial statements.
covered: the Committee was mindful of evolving they consider it necessary.
There is private 54 55 GO GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM CHAIRMAN OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy that will govern the Companys Dear Shareholder future remuneration payments.
The policy described in this part is intended to apply for three years and will be applicable from the Companys This Remuneration Report is split into two parts: AGM in September 2014 subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The policy part will be displayed on the Companys website, in the investor relations area, immediately after the 2014 AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out Berkeleys policy and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM in September 2014 and will apply for a period of three years.
The Committee has established the policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors: the Board has established a policy on the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2013 14 financial year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this letter is subject REMUNERATION POLICY to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM in September 2014.
The sections of this report that have been subject to audit are labelled The objective of Berkeleys remuneration policy is to encourage, reward and retain the current Executives and ensure their actions are aligned accordingly.
The core philosophies of the policy are: CORPORATE PERFORMANCE Fixed remuneration: The Committee sets salaries for the Executive Directors based on their experience, role, individual and corporate Berkeley has delivered strong performance and growth during 2013 14, with the key highlights being: performance.
Salaries on appointment to the Board are set at a lower quartile level of the comparator group which, based on appropriate levels of individual and corporate performance, will be increased with experience gained over time.
Pre-tax return on shareholders equity of 27.5% 2013: 22.4% Annual performance related pay: The Committee believes that shareholders interests are best served by remuneration packages that Dividends paid to shareholders of 195 million 2013: 20 million have a large emphasis on performance-related pay which encourage the Executive Directors to focus on delivering the business strategy.
Future anticipated gross margin in the land bank up 5.7% to 3,014 million 2013: 2,852 million Long-term sustainable performance: The long-term incentives which extend to 2021 have been designed to lock in the Executive team Basic earnings per share increased by 38.6% to 221.8 pence 2013: 160.0 pence for a far longer period than is typical in most publicly listed companies.
This helps to ensure that the Executive team are focused on generating long-term sustainable value for shareholders, not just on meeting short term performance targets.
Net asset value per share increased by 5.6% to 1,065.6 pence 2013: 1,009.1 pence Substantial equity holdings: In order to align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders, the reward strategy is designed so The results underline the Groups aim of balancing earnings in the near term and creating a sustainable business, delivering value to that, provided performance is delivered, the Executive team become material in relation to their overall compensation shareholders in shareholders over the long term.
Berkeleys Return on Equity compared with the sector over the last six years illustrates the relative performance of the Company: REMUNERATION POSITIONING Return on Equity The policy is to set the main elements of the Executive Directors remuneration package against the following quartiles in the Companys Company 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 comparator group: Berkeley 16.2% 13.3% 15.3% 21.2% 22.4% 27.5% Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Long-term Incentives Sector highest 16.2% 13.3% 15.3% 21.2% 22.4% 27.5% Sector lowest 73.4% 44.2% 6.2% 0.4% 3.4% 3.5% Experience & Role Market practice Lower quartile Upper decile Upper decile Sector average excluding Berkeley 26.0% 18.1% 1.0% 4.8% 8.5% 11.4% For the purposes of benchmarking remuneration the Committee used the following comparator group of companies for the 2014 15 Berkeleys remuneration policy aims to encourage, reward and retain the Executives and ensure that their actions are aligned with the financial year.
In particular, the emphasis on performance related pay aligns the Executives with the performance of the business which is coupled with long Amec PLC Bellway PLC Marshalls PLC Taylor Wimpey PLC term incentives that lock in the Executive team for up to 10 years which is far longer than is typical in most publicly listed companies.
On an annual basis the Committee will review the comparator groups to ensure The awards under Part A of the 2009 LTIP vested during the year.
The exercise of these awards resulted in an increase in shareholding for that they remain appropriate.
REMUNERATION POLICY DISCRETION OPERATION OF POLICY IN 2014 15 The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and There are no changes to the operation of the policy for 2014 15. administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend The Executive Directors have received salary increases for 2014 15 of approximately 3%, compared to average salary increases across the policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await Group of 6.1%.
NEW BONUS PLAN FOR 2015 16 The Committee is seeking shareholder approval for a new Bonus Plan at the September 2014 AGM which will form part of the policy for the financial year 2015 16 and subsequent years.
Details of the new Bonus Plan are set out in the Notice of AGM and it is proposed that the Plan will operate on the same principles as the existing Bonus Plan.
IN CONCLUSION I look forward to receiving your support for the resolution seeking approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration at our forthcoming AGM as well as on the Remuneration Policy applicable to our Directors which will apply from the forthcoming AGM in September 2014.
GLYN BARKER CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 56 57 GO GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued FUTURE POLICY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Objective and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance condition and assessment The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Executive Directors: to strategy Objective and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance condition and assessment Annual Bonus to strategy The Bonus Plan At the beginning of the plan The maximum bonus potential for There are two types of performance Base salary aligns rewards to period of five financial years first all Executive Directors is 300% of condition: Group and Divisional.
Both the key objectives bonus year started in FY 2010 11, salary for any plan year.
are measured at the end of each financial Core element of Salaries are reviewed annually and The annual salary for each There are no performance conditions on linked to short participants had a plan account to year.
remuneration, set any changes are effective from Executive Director is set out in the salary.
However, the performance of the At threshold performance no to medium term which Company contributions were The bonus payable to each of the Group at a level which 1 May each year.
statement of implementation of individual and the Company are reflected bonus can be earned.
Chairman, Group Managing Director and is sufficiently remuneration policy for 2014 15 on in the salary they are paid.
In setting levels of base salary, the whilst ensuring At target performance 50% of the Group Finance Director is determined by competitive page 77.
No Company contribution is made Committee takes into account that there is a maximum bonus can be earned.
to recruit and to a participants plan account the following factors in setting The Committee has a policy on balance between retain Executive unless the annual performance Bonus is earned on a straight line For the Divisional Directors, 50% of the individual salary levels: appointment of bringing Executive incentivising the Directors of the criteria are met.
potential bonus payable is determined Directors on to the Board at Executive Directors, appropriate calibre the individual Executive by reference to Group performance lower quartile levels of salary and providing a The Company contribution will be and experience Directors experience and and 50% by reference to Divisional increasing salaries as experience sustainable ongoing set annually as a percentage of to achieve the responsibilities: PBT performance for which they have is gained and performance in the level of return to salary for each Executive Director.
the levels of base salary role can be evaluated.
Having regard to the strategy of for similar positions ensuring the longThe Group performance condition is a Where an Executive is extremely the Company, the Committee will Policy: Experience with comparable status, term sustainability matrix of Return on Equity ROE and experienced and has a long track set: and role responsibility and skills in of the Company.
record of proven performance organisations of broadly similar The performance levels salaries may be in the upper decile.
The Notice of AGM The Divisional performance condition is size and complexity: including minimum sets out details based upon Divisional Profit before Tax In setting salaries, the Committee performance thresholds for the performance of the of the proposed PBT.
looks at companies of broadly the performance conditions for individual Executive Director replacement for the similar size and complexity, in each plan year: There is a risk adjustment mechanism and the Group: Bonus Plan which particular those companies within built into the operation of the Bonus will form part of The maximum annual Company pay and conditions throughout the comparator group and those in Plan.
If the threshold levels of ROE, Land the policy, subject contribution for each participant the Group.
Bank Growth or Divisional PBT are not to shareholder for the plan year.
met for any financial year during the five In general salary rises will be approval, for the Participants will be entitled to an years of operation of the Bonus Plan part limited to the level provided to financial year annual payment of 50% of their of a participants plan account will be employees of the Company as a 2015 16 and plan account at the end of each forfeited.
All balances will ensures: Policy: Upper be deferred in shares or notional Benefits Performance must be maintained decile shares.
At the end of the five year over the five years of operation of plan period 100% of the balance of To provide In line with market practice, the Benefit values vary year on year None.
the Bonus Plan or the value in the participants accounts will be paid.
competitive levels Companys policy is to provide depending on premiums and the participants plan account will not of employment Executive Directors with the maximum value is the cost of the Dividends paid during a increase: benefits.
following additional benefits: provision of these benefits.
financial year will be added to a If there is a material deterioration participants plan account on an Policy: Market a fully expensed company car or in performance, 50% of the balance annual basis.
practice cash allowance alternative: of the participants account will be forfeited.
medical insurance: The Committee has the discretion to other benefits may be provided adjust targets or weightings for any from time to time.
exceptional events that may occur during Benefits are reviewed periodically the year.
to ensure they remain market The Committee intends to provide full competitive.
prospective and retrospective disclosure The payments are not included of Group performance targets.
The in salary for the purposes of Committee is of the view that the calculating any benefit or level Divisional performance targets are of participation in incentive commercially sensitive both at the time arrangements.
of setting the targets and at the point when they are measured and the bonus determined.
It is therefore the opinion of the Committee that these Targets cannot be disclosed for a material period of time.
58 59 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Level of targets The Committee wishes to incentivise the Executive Directors to achieve a good level of returns to shareholders whilst Objective and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance condition and assessment ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Company.
Therefore the targets set have to take into account an appropriate level of risk.
The to strategy Bonus Plan allows a close tailoring by the Committee of the performance conditions to the budget and performance of the Company for each financial year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Divisional PBT targets The Divisional targets were chosen to ensure the Divisional Directors are appropriately focused on the profitability No Plan available The maximum number of shares approved by shareholders under The Berkeley Group Holdings plc 2011 Long-Term of their respective Divisions which ultimately enhance the delivery of returns to shareholders.
The targets are set by the Committee at for new grants Incentive Plan has been granted.
Therefore, no additional awards can be made under this Plan unless on cessation the beginning of the financial year at a level which is challenging taking into account the potential level of bonus payments, the market, during the Policy of employment by an existing participant shares become available.
development availability and other relevant issues.
No other Long Term Incentive Plan arrangement will be implemented by the Company during the Policy Period.
RECOVERY PROVISIONS Policy: Upper Under the terms of the Bonus Plan, there is a risk adjustment mechanism built in so that should threshold levels of performance not be decile achieved, 50% of the balance of the participants account will be forfeited.
No recovery provisions apply to salary, benefits and pension.
Pension CHANGES TO REMUNERATION POLICY FROM PREVIOUS POLICY To provide The Companys policy is either to The maximum contribution or None.
There have been no changes to the operation, maximum opportunity or performance measures in relation to the salary, annual bonus, pension competitive levels of provide a contribution to a pension payment in lieu is 25% of salary.
arrangement or provide payments The annual rate for each Executive in lieu of pension.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR ALL EMPLOYEES Policy: Lower Director is set out in the statement The Group seeks to establish remuneration packages that will attract, retain and motivate high quality employees.
Salary and benefit packages quartile Messrs Pidgley, Perrins, Fry and of implementation of remuneration for all employees are linked to both individual and business performance.
Whiteman currently receive policy for 2014 15 on page 77. payments in lieu of pension.
The Companys business comprises of a number of operating Divisions.
The annual and longer term cash based compensation arrangements for these other senior employees of the Company are therefore linked to the performance of the relevant Division for which they work.
Some Messrs Simpkin and Ellis currently elements of the cash bonus plans are annual while other elements are deferred to ensure long-term consistent delivery by each Division.
is the view of both the Committee and the Board as a whole that these arrangements are very effective at ensuring the delivery of Divisional All payments in lieu of pension are performance for which these senior employees are responsible.
subject to income tax and national All other eligible employees participate in bonus plans, which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all insurance.
employees to share in the success of the Group.
Pension is not included in salary ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY figures for the purposes of The following subsisting awards will continue to operate on the terms and conditions set out in the relevant plan rules, as approved by determining any other benefit shareholders in relation to the 2009 LTIP and 2011 LTIP.
Full details of the subsisting awards are set out in previous years Committee Reports.
Awards under these arrangements do not form part of the ongoing remuneration policy: however payments may be made in the future Shareholding requirement subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions.
To ensure that The Committee operates a In the case of the Group Chairman None.
Objective and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance condition Executive Directors system of shareholder guidelines this is 400% of base salary, for other to strategy and assessment interests are aligned to encourage long-term share Executive Directors 200% of base with those of ownership by the Executive salary.
The Committee retains the Awards granted under the Berkeley Group Holdings plc 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP shareholders over a Directors.
discretion to increase shareholding longer time horizon.
This should be achieved within five The 2009 LTIP aligns Following shareholder approval on 15 April 2009, a A total of 6,090,000 options The grants under Part B of Policy: Market years of appointment for Executive Shareholdings as at 30 April 2014 Executive Director maximum of 7,100,000 shares were capable of being are outstanding under Part the 2009 LTIP are options practice Directors.
are provided on page 75. interests with those granted under Part B of the 2009 LTIP.
B of the 2009 LTIP held by which will vest subject to: of shareholders Executive Directors and The grants under Part B of the 2009 LTIP will vest in two continued employment by focusing other senior employees NOTES TO THE FUTURE POLICY TABLE tranches, subject to certain conditions: to the relevant vesting on delivering and no new awards will be RATIONALE BEHIND SELECTION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS FOR BONUS PLAN date: sustainable 50% on 15 April 2015: granted.
The annual bonus plan measures provide direct alignment with the short to medium-term strategic objectives of the Company: superior returns to the satisfaction of the 50% on 15 April 2016.
Two Group performance targets The balance of operating a return based measure ROE and a value based measure Land Bank Growth shareholders.
underpin condition should ensure that there is a balance between incentivising the Executive Directors to provide a sustainable ongoing level of return to Shareholder approval was received at the 2011 AGM to that Net Assets Per Approved by shareholders whilst ensuring the long-term sustainability of the Company, as follows: amend the rules of the 2009 LTIP covering both Part A Share are at least 9.00 shareholders at and Part B so that the terms of existing options granted at each of the vesting the Bonus Plan incentivises the delivery of increased profits in order to achieve ROE at the same time as growing the land bank.
It should be the 2009 EGM and can be adjusted in the event of the payment of a cash dates.
The Committee noted that the ROE will be set from a challenging base as the Company has not taken any land write downs as is the case with the majority amended at the dividend or dividend in specie.
This provides that where determined to increase of its competitors: 2011 AGM.
such a dividend is paid the adjustment will be a reduction the Net Asset Per Share ROE is a compound measure and therefore if shareholder funds are reinvested and not paid as dividends, earnings growth will be Further details on in the exercise price of an option by the amount or value underpin for the vesting compounded to achieve the targets: the 2009 LTIP are of the dividend provided that the exercise price can of options from 5.94 set out in the 2009 never be less than zero and a reduction will only be made set at the date of grant the fact that the Bonus Plan targets also include growth in the land bank value, means that Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire Notice of EGM to the exercise price of an option that is not then capable to 9.00 and to require land in the current market on favourable terms as well as maximise sustainable profit growth: and 2011 Notice of of exercise.
that this underpin be ROE as a measure highlights the inefficiency of retaining surplus cash on the balance sheet.
In order to deliver the targeted level of returns, AGM.
met at each of the Awards under Part A of the 2009 LTIP were all exercised this will encourage the Company to invest or return cash to shareholders.
60 61 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued NOTES TO ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY Objective and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance condition and to strategy assessment RATIONALE BEHIND SELECTION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS The 2009 LTIP and 2011 LTIP measures were selected as the Committee believes they provide direct alignment with the long-term strategic Deferred balances under the Berkeley Group Holdings plc Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan objectives of the Company and shareholders.
The 2011 LTIP plan aims to maximise returns within a given level of risk, disciplining the business to make significant returns to shareholders in cash over a sustained period and balances investment and returns to shareholders.
Provides longParticipants are entitled to an annual Deferred awards under the Bonus See pages 71 to 73. term shareholder payment of 50% of their plan account at the Plan from previous financial years will 2011 LTIP PERFORMANCE TARGETS alignment for end of each financial year.
be part of the Companys ongoing The following table sets out the cumulative distributions, the relevant dates and the consequences of failing to deliver these distributions by Executive Directors arrangements.
these relevant dates: All balances will be deferred in shares by deferring a or notional shares.
At the end of the five Full details of the subsisting awards proportion of the year plan period 100% of the balance of are set out in previous years Required date Cumulative distribution Consequences of failing to make the cumulative distributions on or before annual award under participants accounts will be paid.
on or before required the required date the Bonus Plan.
date See Annual Bonus Plan on page 71 for further details.
30 September 2015 568.7m Options lapse, no shares vest and 2011 LTIP terminates on 1 October 2015.
Awards granted under the Berkeley Group Holdings plc 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP 30 September 2018 1,136.1m Where the cumulative distributions on or before 30 September 2018 is less than 1,136.1m, the following process determines the number of shares vesting:- The 2011 LTIP aligns The 2011 LTIP is a ten year plan which The maximum number of shares Performance will be 1 The number of shares capable of vesting is calculated on the level of dividend Executive Director supports the Companys long term plan capable of being earned by all measured against cumulative paid and capable of being paid as at 30 September 2018. interests with those to make a priority return of approximately participants is 19,616,503 shares, distribution targets.
of shareholders 1.7 billion to shareholders, representing being 13% of the fully diluted share 2 The exercise price of the shares capable of vesting is set by reducing the The notes to this table set out by focusing on 183% of the Net Assets per Share at 30 April capital of the Company at the date original exercise price of 13 by the level of cumulative dividend actually paid the cumulative distributions creating sustainable 2011 7.09 share, through a combination of approval of the plan.
on or before 30 September 2021. required by the relevant superior returns to of dividends and share buy-backs, by The awards for each Executive dates and the consequences 3 No shares will vest until the end of the 2011 LTIP period on 30 September 2021 shareholders over a September 2021.
Director are set out below: of failing to deliver these subject to the participants continued employment at this date.
The plan aims to make the returns to distributions.
Approved by shareholders in cash over a sustained period, Executive Number of shares 30 September 2021 1,703.6m The process is the same as above with the relevant date being Director shareholders at ensuring the Group remains at the right 30 September 2021. the 2011 AGM and size and balances investment and returns to A W Pidgley 5,000,000 amended at the shareholders.
1,703.6 m paid in full prior 1,703.6m In circumstances where 1,703.6 m of cumulative distributions including 13 2012 AGM.
R C Perrins 5,000,000 If the Company returns 1.7 billion to to 30 September 2021 share in dividends are made prior to 30 September 2021 awards shall vest in full.
Further details on shareholders over a ten year period via a including 13 share in N G Simpkin 3,250,000 Participants will be able to exercise their awards of options from the date this the 2011 LTIP are series of dividend payments 13 share and dividends cumulative target is met and may also sell any shares necessary to pay their tax set out in the 2011 share buy-backs by the dates referred to in S Ellis 2,250,000 liability on exercise.
Notice of AGM the footnote to this table, participants will K Whiteman 1,000,000 and 2012 Notice of be entitled to exercise options and receive In respect of the balance of their shares participants shall only be able to sell a AGM.
a number of ordinary shares in the residual maximum of 10% p. a. of this balance until 30 September 2021 at which date the G J Fry 1,866,503 capital of the Company at the end of the sale restrictions shall lapse.
ten year period after the returns have been Including awards to other senior distributed.
employees of the Company, options over a total of 19,616,503 shares are The exercise price of options granted under outstanding.
the 2011 LTIP will be 13 per share less an amount equal to the value of all dividends No new awards will be granted paid between the date of approval of the under the 2011 LTIP to the current 2011 LTIP and 30 September 2021, provided Executive Directors.
the exercise price cannot be less than zero.
62 63 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY Notes The graphs below seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Executive Directors based on our stated remuneration 1.
The total under all elements of the Bonus Plan is a maximum of 175%-300% of salary p. a. dependent upon Executive Director.
Whilst the historic long-term incentive plans do not form part of the future remuneration policy for 2014 15, the Executive Directors are working towards the achievement of the relevant targets and they have therefore been included in the 2.
A level of 50% vesting for on-target performance reflects the mid-point of the performance range under the Bonus Plan Group illustrations below.
performance matrix and PBT Divisional targets.
See page 78 for more details.
The 2011 LTIP is a one-off award granted over a 10 year period therefore we have used one tenth of the IFRS 2 fair value of the options at A W Pidgley R C Perrins N G Simpkin the date of grant as the Maximum and 50% of this value for On-Target.
The 2009 LTIP Part B is a one-off award which vests over 6 and 7 years 50% in 2015 and 50% in 2016.
Therefore we have used one sixth and one seventh of IFRS 2 fair values of the options at the date of grant as the Maximum and 50% of this value for On-Target.
In accordance with the Regulations, no allowance has been made for share price appreciation.
1,329 3,318 2,297 FUTURE POLICY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 51% 56% 57% The table below sets out the key elements of the policy for Non-executive Directors: 22% 19% 16% Objective and link to Operation Maximum Performance 19% 1,013 403 14% 617 16% strategy conditions and 100% 31% 18% 100% 30% 18% 16% 100% 27% assessment Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum To attract NonAll Non-executive Directors have specific terms of Current fee levels are set out in the N A executive Directors engagement and their remuneration is determined statement of implementation of G J Fry K Whiteman S Ellis 000 1,801 000 1,372 000 1,890 with the requisite by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of remuneration policy on page 79. skills and experience Association.
60% 50% 60% In general fee rises will be limited to contribute to Each Non-executive Director receives a fee which to the level provided to employees the strategy of relates to membership of the Board and additional of the Company as a whole.
884 1,112 the Company 1,144 fees are paid for Committee Chairmanship.
39% and to review its In setting fees, the Board looks 48% 50% implementation.
In exceptional circumstances, fees may also be paid at the upper quartile fee levels of 21% for additional time spent on the Companys business companies of broadly similar size 17% 396 16% 19% outside of the normal duties.
and complexity, in particular those 424 14% 399 15% 100% 45% 29% companies within the comparator 100% 38% 23% 100% 35% 21% The Board reviews the fees of the Non-executive group and those in the FTSE 250.
Directors annually taking into account the following factors: On an annual basis the Board will Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum review the comparator groups to Key: Fixed Annual variable Multiple reporting period the workload and level of responsibility of the ensure they appropriately reflect Non-executive Directors under the changing the Companys size, operations Assumptions used in determining the level of pay-out under given scenarios are as follows: corporate governance expectations of and business complexities.
shareholders and their representative bodies: Element Minimum On-target Maximum the current market rate for fees for Non-executive Fixed Elements Fixed elements do not vary with performance and comprise: Directors based on the comparators used for the Executive Directors.
2014 15 base salary Changes are effective from 1 May each year.
Estimated benefits for 2014 15 The Company has a shareholding requirement for Pension or cash in lieu of contributions.
Non-executive Directors, linked to net fee they receive from the Company.
This is equal to 100% of Annual Variable Element net fees.
This should be achieved within three years 1,2 1 Bonus Plan 0% 25% of maximum award 50% maximum award of appointment for Non-executive Directors.
Annual cash element where performance measures relate to Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share incentive plans or performance based plans and are not eligible to one financial year join the Companys pension scheme.
Multiple Reporting Period Elements APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION 1,2 1 The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre Bonus Plan 0% 25% of maximum award 50% maximum award and experience needed for the role.
The remuneration package for any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the Deferred element where current Executive Directors.
performance measures relate to The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and is aware of more than one financial year guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the 3 3 2011 LTIP 0% 50% vesting 100% vesting appropriateness of any performance conditions associated with an award.
4 4 2009 LTIP Part B 0% 50% vesting 100% vesting 64 65 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no SERVICE CONTRACTS retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing Details of the service contracts or letters of appointment for the Directors are as follows: elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the employee.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Notice period by Company or Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Director The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: A W Pidgley 24 June 1994 Rolling service contract with no 12 months Element Policy fixed expiry date Base salary and benefits The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, experience and R C Perrins 15 July 2002 Rolling service contract with no 12 months the salaries paid to similar roles in comparable companies.
The Committee will apply the policy set fixed expiry date out on salaries for the current Executive Directors in the remuneration policy table.
N G Simpkin 11 September 2002 Rolling service contract with no 12 months The Executive Director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with Berkeleys benefits policy as fixed expiry date set out in the remuneration policy table.
G J Fry 27 June 1996 Rolling service contract with no 12 months fixed expiry date Pension The Executive Director will be entitled to receive contributions into a pension plan or alternatively to receive a supplement in lieu of pension contributions in line with Berkeleys pension policy as set K Whiteman 15 January 1996 Rolling service contract with no 12 months out in the remuneration policy table.
fixed expiry date Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan as set out in the S Ellis 5 May 2004 Rolling service contract with no 12 months remuneration policy table.
fixed expiry date The maximum potential opportunity under this Plan is 300% of salary.
Notice period by Company or Non-executives Letter of appointment Expiry date Director Long-Term incentives On recruitment, a new Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the 2011 LTIP set out in J Armitt 1 October 2007 Renewable annually on 1 May n a the Elements of previous policy that will continue to apply section, provided awards are available under the Plan and the total number of awards granted to all participants does not exceed D Howell 24 February 2004 Renewable annually on 1 May n a 19,616,503 shares under subsisting options as agreed with shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
A Nimmo 5 September 2011 Renewable annually on 1 May n a Maximum Level of Variable 300% of salary under the Bonus Plan and any available awards under the 2011 LTIP provided awards G Barker 3 January 2012 Renewable annually on 1 May n a Remuneration are available under the Plan and the total number of awards granted to all participants does not exceed 19,616,503 shares under subsisting options.
V Wadley 3 January 2012 Renewable annually on 1 May n a A Li 2 September 2013 Renewable annually on 1 May n a Share buy-outs The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of A Myers 6 December 2013 Renewable annually on 1 May n a a buy-out, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: All service contracts and letters of appointments are available for viewing at the Companys registered office.
the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the directors cessation of employment: The Companys practice is to appoint the Non-executive Directors under letters of appointment, which are renewable annually on 1 May.
They are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association dealing with appointment and rotation every three years, however in accordance the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of with the UK Corporate Governance code are subject to annual re-election.
them being satisfied: When setting notice periods for Executive Directors, the Committee has regard for market practice and corporate governance best practice.
any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value : Notice periods will not be greater than 12 months.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide When determining any loss of office payment for a departing Director the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement whilst complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to would be used.
make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Relocation policies Where the new Executive Director is relocated from one work-base to another, the Company may Directors office or employment.
provide one-off on-going as part of the Directors relocation benefits compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance schooling.
66 67 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The table below sets out the Companys termination policy in respect of Executive Director contracts for each element of total remuneration.
Element Approach Application of Committee discretion For each element the table also sets out the boundaries of Committee discretion to apply flexibility to the default position.
2009 LTIP Part B continued Change of control Element Approach Application of Committee discretion On a change of control of the Company or Court sanction of a scheme of The Committee have the discretion to determine Base salary and benefits In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no The Committee has discretion to make a lump sum arrangement, all options shall be exercisable.
The number of shares under how the performance condition taken into account compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
option exercisable on a change of control will be determined by pro-rating on a change of control.
The Board will only use this the time elapsed from the date of grant to the date of the change of discretion in exceptional circumstances and will In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive control compared to the original vesting period and subject to the provide a full explanation to shareholders, if possible compensation for loss of office which will be a maximum of twelve months satisfaction as determined by the Committee in its absolute discretion of in advance, of the basis for its determination.
the performance condition at the date of the change of control.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary and benefits that The exercise price shall be adjusted for the payment of any cash dividend the executive would have received if still in employment with the or dividend in specie to the date of the relevant transaction in accordance Company.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within with the plan rules.
a twelve month period of their departure from the Company.
In the event of an internal reorganisation, options shall not vest unless the Pension Pension contributions or payments in lieu of pension contribution will be The Committee has discretion to make a lump sum Board consents and the Board may determine that options are exchanged made during the notice period.
No additional payments will be made in payment in lieu.
for an option over a successor companys shares.
respect of pension contributions for loss of office.
2011 LTIP Cessation of employment Annual bonus Cessation of employment The treatment of 2011 LTIP If a participant ceases to be employed by a Group Company for any The Committee has the discretion to determine that The treatment of the Bonus awards is governed by the If a participant ceases to be employed by a Group Company for any The Committee has the discretion to determine that reason other than death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, an Executive Director is a good leaver.
Plan is governed by the rules rules of the plan, as approved reason an award that has not vested shall lapse unless the Committee in its an Executive Director is a good leaver.
the employing Company ceasing to be a Group Company or a transfer of of the plan.
The Committee will only use its general discretion to by shareholders at the 2011 absolute discretion determines otherwise for good leaver reasons the business or any other reason determined by the Committee, the The Committee retains discretion to set the determine that an Executive Director is a good AGM Meeting and the including, but not limited to, injury, disability, ill health, retirement, participants option shall lapse.
measurement date for the purposes of determining leaver in exceptional circumstances and will provide amendment approved at the redundancy or transfer of the business.
performance measurement and whether to pro-rate For good leaver reasons noted above, the Committee will determine the a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in 2012 AGM.
If the Committee, determines that deferred awards held in a participants the contribution for that plan year.
number of shares capable of vesting taking into account dividends paid advance, of the basis for its determination.
plan account shall not lapse on cessation of employment, all deferred per share and share buy-backs as at the termination date and the number It should be noted that it is the Committees policy awards held in the participants plan account shall vest immediately and of shares under option held by the participant.
only to apply such discretions if the circumstances at the Committee shall determine: the time are, in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, The exercise price shall be adjusted for any dividends paid in accordance a whether the measurement date for that plan year is brought forward to and to provide a full explanation to shareholders with the plan rules.
the date of cessation or remains at the end of the plan year: where discretion is exercised.
Change of control b whether a reduction is applied to the payment to take account the proportion of the plan year elapsed and the contribution to the Group.
An option will become exercisable in full immediately prior to a change of Consideration shall be given by the Committee, in control of the Company, Court sanction of a scheme of arrangement or the consultation with the participants, as to whether the If the Committee determines that the measurement date is the date of disposal of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company and its type or timing of any consideration receivable by cessation, the Committee shall pro-rate the performance conditions to the subsidiaries.
shareholders should affect either the timing of the date of cessation.
exercise of options and or alter the calculation of The exercise price shall be adjusted for any dividends made to the date of Change of control the exercise price such that the participants do not the relevant transaction in accordance with the plan rules.
receive a greater or lesser benefit from the On a change of control, all deferred awards held in a participants plan The Committee retains discretion to pro-rate the transaction than the shareholders beyond the ability In the event of an internal reorganisation, options shall not vest unless the account shall vest immediately and the Committee shall determine: contribution for that plan year.
Committee consents and the Committee may determine that options are exchanged for an option over a successor companys shares.
a that the measurement date is the date of the change of control: It is the Committees policy in normal circumstances to pro-rate to time: however, in exceptional b whether a reduction is applied to the payment to take account the Other contractual No contractual provision agreed prior to 27th June 2012 that could impact None.
circumstances where the nature of the transaction proportion of the plan year elapsed and the participants contribution to obligations quantum of the payment.
produces exceptional value for shareholders and the Group.
provided the performance targets are met the Committee will consider whether pro-rating is The Committee shall pro-rate the performance conditions to the equitable.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY In making annual pay decisions the Committee also gives consideration to pay and employment conditions in the rest of the Group, including In the event of an internal reorganisation, the Committee may determine any base salary increases awarded.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the that awards are replaced by equivalent awards.
Executive Directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company.
No comparison metrics were used.
2009 LTIP Part B Cessation of employment Although the Committee takes into account the pay and conditions of other employees, the Company did not consult with employees when The treatment of 2009 LTIP drawing up the policy report.
If a participant ceases to be employed by a Group Company for any The Committee has the discretion to determine that Part B awards is governed by reason other than death, injury, ill-health, disability, retirement, the an Executive Director is a good leaver.
the rules of the plan, as CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS employing Company ceasing to be a Group Company or a transfer of the approved by shareholders at The Committee will only use its general discretion to The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and business or any other reason determined by the Committee, the determine that an Executive Director is a good the 2009 EGM and the practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with participants option shall lapse.
leaver in exceptional circumstances and will provide amendment approved at the key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its remuneration policy.
For good leaver reasons noted above, the number of shares under a full explanation to shareholders, if possible in option capable of vesting will be calculated by pro-rating to the amount of advance, of the basis for its determination.
the relevant vesting period completed on the date of cessation of employment.
Awards will only vest at the end of the relevant vesting period subject to the satisfaction of the performance condition.
The exercise price shall be adjusted for the payment of any cash dividend or dividend in specie in accordance with the plan rules.
68 69 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued ADDITIONAL DETAILS IN RESPECT OF SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE TABLE AUDITED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The main elements of the remuneration outcomes for 2013 14 are set out below.
This section of the remuneration report contains details of how the Companys 2013 14 remuneration policy for Directors was implemented TAXABLE BENEFITS during the financial year ending on 30 April 2014.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Taxable benefits comprise a fully expensed company car or cash allowance alternative and medical insurance.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED ANNUAL BONUS The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the 2013 14 financial year.
In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee and performance against Comparative figures for 2012 13 have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
2013 14 and 2012 13 multiyear performance incentive the amounts relate to awards that were released under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Benefits include a fully expensed company car or cash allowance alternative and medical insurance.
Performance Requirement Matrix 0.0% 50.0% 62.5% 75.0% 87.5% 100.0% The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-executive Director.
The matrix shows the percentage of each of the performance requirements for a given level of performance and the corresponding percentage of the targeted G Barker 56.5 55 12.5 69 55 maximum annual bonus potential that could be earned for 2013 14.
Straight line bonus vesting between points.
Return on Equity ROE is defined as profit before tax divided by average shareholders funds.
Land Bank Growth is defined as the annual percentage increase in the development margin in the land bank.
Resigned from the Board on 2 September 2013.
Appointed to the Board on 2 September 2013.
Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2013.
Additional fees represent fees paid for the role of Committee Chairmanship.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements nor do they receive any benefits.
