Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information US shareholders Stamp duty This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration in respect of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for no consideration.
capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
No UK stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, the consideration for the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp investment including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
and one or more other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Annual General Meeting 2015 Taxation of dividends The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign 2.30pm UK time on Thursday 7 May 2015 source dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in pounds Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication will be included in income in the US dollar amount calculated by with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, there reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity for or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualied Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange Taxation of capital gains with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy or other disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term from BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of your request capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual to do so.
This will enable you to attend and vote on the business to holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the Information reporting and backup withholding way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or by completing and returning the voting card provided by the ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial Depositary.
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be Documents on display subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between identication number and certies that no loss of exemption has Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side occurred.
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a available for inspection at the companys registered ofce and will certication of their non-US status in connection with payments be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability provided the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
Estate and gift taxes Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
GSK Annual Report 2014 245 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information continued The denitions of political donations, political expenditure and Financial calendar political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In Event Date particular, the denition of EU political organisations may extend to Quarter 1 results announcement April May 2015 bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the Annual General Meeting May 2015 representation of the business community and special interest Quarter 2 results announcement July 2015 groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, Quarter 3 results announcement October 2015 the denitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the Preliminary Quarter 4 results announcement February 2016 ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political Annual Report announcement February March 2016 expenditure.
Annual Report Summary distribution March 2016 Such activities are not designed to support any political party or Information about the company, including the share price, is available independent election candidate.
The authority which the Board on our website at www.
Information made available on the has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange Directors and are available on its news service.
They are also sent to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our to the media and made available on our website.
Articles of Association, which are available on our website.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
Financial reports The Directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder powers must be exercised by the members.
not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary.
These documents are available on our website from the date of The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors publication.
The Summary is sent to all shareholders.
Shareholders are contained in our Articles.
They provide that Directors may be may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notication by of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director email of the publication of financial reports by registering on appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her www.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if from the GSK Response Center in the USA see pages 249 and they have held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more.
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to continue as members of the Board should seek re-election Donations to political organisations annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution and political expenditure of which special notice has been given, or by passing a special With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach resolution.
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if: In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2014, the he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU creditors generally organisations.
he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with Act or the Articles the Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue to he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health and the support an employee-operated Political Action Committee PAC Board resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees.
he or she has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission and the Board The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amounts and resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director recipients of contributions are made by participating employees exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law political contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
In he or she resigns 2014, a total of US$525,900 US$484,810 in 2013 was donated to political organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the all other Directors being at least three in number require company to make donations to EU political organisations and to him or her to resign.
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
