60 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Glossary Key terms explained Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
LTE Long-term Evolution or 4G is the next-generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one big that Mali ARMs family of specialist multimedia processors including 3D graphics, video and delivers high performance when needed with the other LITTLE running most display technologies.
ofthe time enabling long battery life.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which can be used in many applications.
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or an MCU.
Cortex Family of ARM processors.
Original equipment manufacturer An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
For OEM example Apple, HTC or LG.
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARMs processor technology.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips.
These chips are typically POP IP Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a manufactured by a foundry.
Forexample MediaTek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
processor on a specic foundrys manufacturing process.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on behalf of Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Intellectual property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term for the Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
Theroyalty products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
Internet of Things IoT An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet STB Set-top box.
either directly or indirectly via a smartphone.
From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners.
System-on-Chip SoC An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into They pay an upfront free, which is reported as licence revenue.
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Contact details If want to inform us of a change of address For all other enquires please contact one of or have lost your share certicate or have ARMs investor relations team: an enquiry about dividend payments please contact: Equiniti Shareholder Services Ian Thornton Laura Faid Designed and produced by Aspect House Head of Investor Relations Investor Relations Associate Radley Yeldar.
com Spencer Road ARM Holdings plc ARM Holdings plc Lancing 110 Fulbourn Road Liberty House This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certied by the Forest Stewardship Council and BN99 6DA, UK Cambridge CB1 9NJ Moorbridge Road contains 100% recycled waste.
The paper is Process Chlorine Phone: 0871 384 2139 Phone: 44 0 1223 400796 Maidenhead SL6 8LT Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental www.
com Phone: 44 0 1628 427800 management system accreditation.
com This report was produced using the pureprint environmental Phil Sparks print technology, aguaranteed, low carbon, low waste, Auditors statement independently audited process that reduces the environmental Investor Relations Manager impact of the printing process.
Printed using vegetable oil The auditors report on the financial ARM Holdings plc based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 statements and the auditors statement 110 Fulbourn Road environmental management system and registered to EMAS undersection 496of the Companies Cambridge CB1 9NJ the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
Act onwhether the information given in Phone: 44 0 1223 405566 Strategic Report and Directors report Email: philip.
com ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered for the financial year ended 31 December trademarks of ARM Limited.
ARM7, ARM9, ARM11, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
2014 is consistent with the Group financial statements were both unqualied and can befound on page 62 of the Governance andFinancial Report.
ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
com twitter: @ARMHoldings pinterest: ARMLtd facebook.
com armix Governance and Financial Report ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and Financial Report Welcome to our Governance and Financial Report.
This explains our commitment to a strong and effective governance system, corporate responsibility and the highest ethical standards, and our detailed financial statements.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 01 2014 reporting suite ARM has designed its 2014 reports to provide a comprehensive overview of the business.
More detailed information is available online at www.
How to use this document Governance ARMs Annual Report consists of two Chairmans introduction 02 documents.
The Strategic Report will give Board of directors 06 you a comprehensive and concise overview Corporate governance 08 of the key information about ARM, and the Audit Committee report 18 Governance and Financial Report contains Nomination Committee report 23 more details about our performance in Corporate Governance report 25 2014.
More information can be found in the Directors report 29 Corporate Responsibility report, and on the Directors Remuneration Report 34 website at www.
Financial Report Governance and Financial Report Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc 62 The Governance and Financial Report Consolidated income statement 68 explains the way we operate, our approach Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 68 to corporate governance, how we Consolidated balance sheet 69 remunerate management and our financial Consolidated cash ow statement 70 performance for 2014.
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity 71 Notes to the financial statements 72 Company balance sheet UK GAAP 117 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 118 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc 125 Glossary and Group directory Glossary 128 Group directory 129 Key shareholder information 131 Where to nd more: Shaping the Shaping corporate responsibility Connected World for a Connected World ARM Holdings plc ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Report Investor Relations Website The Strategic Report contains information about ARM, how The Corporate Responsibility Report outlines our approach The Investor Relations Website contains more information we make money and how we run the business.
It includes to investing in sustainability and projects to enable more on what ARM does and how we connect with some of the an overview of our main markets, our strategy, business energy-efficient technology, and how we attract and develop worlds most innovative companies to shape the future of model, key performance indicators and main areas of risk, as smart and innovative employees.
Here you will nd our latest financial results and well as our progress during 2014.
The report also describes recent case studies of ARM technology in action.
our approach to organisation and culture, governance and A copy of the Corporate Responsibility Report can be sustainability, and includes a summary of our financial strategy.
downloaded from The Investor Relations Website can be found at www.
com ir A copy of the Strategic Report can be downloaded from www.
com reporting2014 02 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Chairmans introduction Our commitment to a strong and effective governance system This report explains the Boards commitment to good corporate governance, corporate responsibility and the highest ethical standards.
One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to promote effective governance which is integral to ensuring that weremain a successful and sustainable company.
Dear shareholder The Board actively considers long-term strategy, monitors, challenges and supports I would like to welcome you to ARMs 2014 the work of the Executive Committee, Governance and Financial Report.
I was and is responsible for Board and executive delighted and privileged to take over the role management succession.
My role as as Chairman of ARM on 1 March 2014, having Stuart Chambers Chairman is to provide the leadership to joined the Board as Chairman Designate Chairman ensure high quality decision making in all on 27 January 2014.
In this introduction, areas of strategy, performance, responsibility Ioutline what we have achieved during my and accountability.
first year in terms of gaining insights from shareholders, refreshing the Board, improving As a Board, we also have ultimate its effectiveness and working with the responsibility for the Groups performance, executive team to evolve the Groups shortfor overseeing the management and for and longer-term strategic goals.
mitigation of the risks that we face to levels that are commensurate with the nature of Having a well-dened governance framework our business.
We seek to do this through a and operating with integrity in all we do strong and effective governance system and is vital to maintain the trust of investors, by setting and following the standards that we customers, our employees and other expect from all our employees.
The Board is keenly aware of its the Board endorsed our improved risk responsibility to provide leadership, operate assessment and reporting framework and with transparency and promote ethical documented our approach to risk appetite.
behaviour and collaboration throughout the Group.
We seek to nurture a working environment in which the highest standards of behaviour are established, demonstrated and maintained in all our activities.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 03 Ethics and values Directors and succession planning The Groups ethos and All employees are required to act fairly, The Board reects a balance between culture is also enshrined in honestly and with integrity, and to confirm technology sector, commercial, financial ARMs three core beliefs, each year that they have read and understand and general business skills, with a highly the Groups Code of Business Conduct experienced international team leading the which were reviewed and and Ethics, a copy of which is published on business in both executive and non-executive refreshed during 2014 and the corporate website at www.
There are well-dened differences Our Human Rights Policy is incorporated in in roles between the executive and nonguide how our people this Code.
executive directors and their combined behave and make the contributions as an experienced, but healthily As part of our commitment to the highest diverse Board add value to the debate, decisions that deliver our standards of business conduct and ethics, decision making and development of strategy vision and strategic goals.
we continue to implement communication that are so crucial to the Groups success.
and training programmes in 2015 to ensure Our international capability was extended in Stuart Chambers that employees worldwide understand 2014 by the appointment of John Liu to the Chairman the requirements of all relevant legislation, Board on 1 December 2014.
He is based in including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and China, an increasingly important market for its global reach and the principles and the Group, and has extensive experience of importance of compliance with competition operating in the burgeoning Asia technology law and anti-trust law.
His biography appears on page 7 Committee reviews a range of activities and details of the process to appoint him across the Group, sets appropriate policies are included in the Nomination Committee and procedures, and takes the lead in report on page 23. ensuring compliance with them.
It reports on its activities to the Board through the We were also very pleased to identify Audit Committee.
Chris Kennedy as our new Chief Financial Officer.
He will join the Board as soon as he has completed his commitments in his The Groups ethos and culture is also current role and a further announcement enshrined in ARMs three core beliefs, which will be made in due course.
He has more were reviewed and refreshed during 2014 and than 20 years of international experience guide how our people behave and make the in senior financial roles in a broad range of decisions that deliver our vision and strategic sectors, most recently at easyJet plc where goals, now and in the future.
The objective he has served as Chief Financial Officer is to encourage teamwork, drive innovation and a member of the board since 2010. and creativity and to help everyone within the His biography appears on page 7 and details Group to reach their full potential.
of the process to appoint him are included in the Nomination Committee report on page 23.
As announced in May 2014, Tim Score, who has been Chief Financial Officer since 2002, has decided to retire in 2015.
Tim has played a major role in ARMs leadership team for the last 13 years which has contributed to the increase in ARMs revenues, profits and returns to shareholders over a sustained period.
He has also successfully developed strong relationships with the analyst and investor community worldwide.
04 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Chairmans introduction continued... Patricia Alsop, who has been Company Diversity Gender split of Board Secretary since 2003, has decided to retire The Board currently comprises three in May 2015.
She will be succeeded by Philip executive directors, the Chairman and five Men 78% Davis, who will take over the role in addition independent non-executive directors.
At the Women 22% to his responsibilities as General Counsel.
year-end there were seven men 78% and two women 22% which broadly reects John Buchanan stepped down as Chairman the gender diversity of ARMs workforce as a on 1 March 2014 due to a medical condition whole.
In terms of location, two directors are and he and Philip Rowley both retired from located in the USA, one is based in China and the Board on 1 May 2014 immediately Gender split of Senior Managers the remainder are in the UK.
In addition, Eric Meurice stepped down from the Board on 31 March The Board noted the publication of Lord Men 89% 2014.
We thank all of them and wish them Davies Review into Women on Boards in Women 11% well for the future.
February 2011 and the proposals published by the European Commission in November The Nomination Committee is developing 2012 the latter of which includes an objective candidate briefs for further searches for that 40% of non-executive directors should independent non-executive directors with be women by 2020.
We believe that diversity appropriate skills, experience and diversity should be considered broadly, as well as Gender split of employees to complement our existing Board members focusing on gender.
It is important to achieve and maintain, collectively, an effective Board.
the correct balance of skills, knowledge and Men 84% experience on the Board.
We will continue Women 16% The roles and specic expertise of the to make appointments on merit and also to current members of the Board are set out in value diversity in its broadest context.
the Biographies section on pages 6 and 7.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 05 Development of strategy Compliance with the UK Corporate Corporate responsibility Governance Code and the The Boards work on dening our shortFull details of our CR strategy and Sarbanes-OxleyAct and long-term strategic priorities at this achievements can be found in the main CR important stage in the Groups development Throughout 2014, the Group complied report www.
com reporting2014 and is receiving increased focus.
We undertook fully with the UK Corporate Governance a summary of highlights from the year are a detailed strategy review in September Code September 2012 and also with the included in the CR section of the Strategic 2014 and the next in-depth strategy meeting Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
The Board Report on page 43. is scheduled for April 2015.
This meeting values good corporate governance and this will focus on progress since the September is reected in our governance principles, Last year for the first time we created meeting and future plans to take advantage of policies and practices, and our everyday the Annual Report as two documents: the opportunities that have been identied.
This approach is backed aStrategic Report containing an update These opportunities are in areas that include by continuous improvement based on on ARMs progress during the year, an the Internet of Things, efficient networking, measurement against internal and external outline of our approach to governance ARM-powered servers and security audits by both Lloyds Register Quality and summary financial results: and a applications.
More details are included in the Assurance and the Groups external auditors, separate Governance and Financial Report Strategic Report that forms the other part of benchmarking and a rigorous approach to giving more detail on governance at ARM ARMs Annual Report 2014. risk management.
We believe that these two documents together full the Corporate governance framework Remuneration best practice guidelines given by the UK Governments Department for Business The Groups corporate governance ARMs remuneration policy, which was Innovation and Skills.
Reporting in this way framework is built around three pillars: approved by shareholders at the 2014 was well receivedby shareholders and AGM, seeks to align the interests of other interested partiesin 2014.
As ever we Organisation, structure and processes.
executive directors, senior management and welcome any furtherfeedback and you can shareholders, and is structured to enable The internal control framework.
contact us via the investor relations websiteat the Group to attract, motivate and retain www.
the talent required to deliver the business Independent assurance.
The approved policy is included for ARM has its primary listing on the London During 2014, the Board played an important completeness at the end of the Directors Stock Exchange and is also listed on the role in ensuring that the Groups performance Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration NASDAQ Stock Market in the US.
targets were achieved in the challenging and Committee, under Larry Hirsts competitive economic environment.
I hope chairmanship, appointed new remuneration the following reports from the various Board advisers in 2014.
Committees demonstrate that setting the corporate governance framework continues The Board is cognisant of the general to be a key focus for the Board.
We must sensitivity relating to executive director always be conscious of the fact that the remuneration.
We are committed to the Boards primary responsibility is to promote principle that there should be no reward for the long-term success of the Group for failure.
We believe that base salaries should the benefit of customers, employees and be appropriately competitive and that the shareholders and I am confident that we are higher emphasis on long-term performancewell positioned to continue to provide value related pay, longer holding periods and to all our stakeholders.
increased shareholding requirements are fair and ensure that ARMs remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate risk taking.
This was implemented through the Long Stuart Chambers Term Incentive Plan approved in 2013 and operated for the first time in 2014.
Chairman 17 February 2015 06 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Board of directors The experience of the team ARMs Board has the breadth and depth of experience necessary to guide the Group as Stuart Chambers 58 Simon Segars 47 it seeks to take full advantage of Chairman Chief Executive Officer new opportunities and contend Committees Committees Nomination Committee Chairman from 1 March 2014 None with new challenges.
Biographical Current directorships Current directorships details of the directors as at the Rexam plc Chairman Global Semiconductor Alliance director Tesco plc independent non-executive director EDA Consortium director date of this report are as follows: Dolby Laboratories, Inc. non-executive director and Audit Time on Board Committee member appointed 3 February 2015 1 year 1 month Time on Board Expertise 10 years 1 month Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate on 27 January 2014 and became Chairman on 1 March 2014.
Expertise He brings a strong track record and a wealth of board and Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and executive experience both in the UK and globally.
Up to was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013.
2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where and representing them on the Board, EVP and General he was Chief Executive.
Prior to the glass industry, Stuart Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior held a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc. having to that, EVP, Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and EVP, previously spent ten years in several European roles at Royal Business Development.
He joined ARM in early 1991 and Dutch Shell plc.
He has also served in the past as a nonworked on many of the early ARM CPU products.
He led the TM TM executive director on three other plc boards and chaired development of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
He holds a number of patents in the eld of embedded CPU architectures.
Andy Green 59 Tim Score 54 Independent Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Risk Review Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee Nomination Committee Current directorships Current directorships The British Land Company PLC Chairman of the IG Group Holdings plc Chairman Audit Committee Dock On AG Chairman Pearson plc non-executive director and Audit Avanti Communications Group plc non-executive director Committee member Networking People UK Limited Chairman Time on Board UK Government Connected Digital Economy Catapult 12 years 11 months CDEC Chairman ABESU Trustee and director Expertise Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and Time on Board director in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, he was Finance 4 years Director of Rebus Group Limited.
He was previously Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller at Expertise LucasVarity plc and Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011.
He was CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012 and was on the board of BT He will be retiring from the Board in 2015.
He is Deputy Chair of The Tech Partnership, President UK Space, and is on the board of the CBI.
He is a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
He has attended audit, risk and remuneration committee meetings over many years during his executive roles: he currently chairs two nomination committees and is a member of a remuneration committee.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 07 Larry Hirst 63 John Liu 51 Independent Independent Mike Muller 55 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Technology Officer Committees Committees Committees Remuneration Committee Chairman from 1 January 2014 Nomination Committee Risk Review Committee Chairman ARM Asia Advisory Group Current directorships Current directorships MITIE Group plc non-executive director Intelligent Energy Limited Current activities Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd Chief Business Officer Trustonic Limited Time on Board Digital China Holdings Limited non-executive director 4 years 1 month Time on Board 13 years 4 months Time on Board Expertise 2 months Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011.
He is the Expertise former Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining Expertise He retired from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide the Group, he was responsible for hardware strategy and John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 2014.
He is also range of senior positions since joining the company in 1977. the development of portable products at Acorn Computers.
a member of the Board of Trustees of Beijing Normal He currently chairs the Imperial College Data Science He was previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he University Education Fund.
Former roles include senior Institute Advisory Board.
He is also an Ambassador to was VP, Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business executive positions in various companies including as Monitise plc and on the International Advisory Board for Development until October 2000 when he was appointed Corporate Vice President and Head of Greater China for British Airways.
Former roles include being a UK Business Chief Technology Officer.
In October 2001, he was Google Inc. : China CEO of SK Telecom Co. Ltd in Korea Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Commission for appointed to the Board.
and Country Director of Greater China of Singapore Employment and Skills, and Chair of e-skills UK the Telecommunications Limited.
UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology.
He is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees at MITIE.
Kathleen ODonovan 57 Janice Roberts 59 Chris Kennedy 51 Senior Independent Independent Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director designate Committees Committees Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee The forthcoming appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief Remuneration Committee Financial Officer was announced on 8 January 2015.
He will Nomination Committee join the Board as soon as he has completed his commitments Current directorships Current directorships at easyJet where he has been CFO since 2010.
He brings Benhamou Global Ventures Partner Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd Chairman to ARM more than 20 years of international experience RealNetworks, Inc. non-executive director, Chair of Trinity Mirror plc non-executive director and Chairman in senior financial roles in a broad range of sectors, most Compensation Committee and member of Nominating and ofthe Audit Committee recently at easyJet plc where he was a key part of the Corporate Governance Committee management team that transformed its performance.
D S Smith Plc non-executive director Zebra Technologies Corporation non-executive director Prior to this he worked at EMI plc and was appointed to the and member of Compensation Committee Time on Board board of EMIs holding company, Maltby Ltd in 2008 as CFO Ronald McDonald House, Stanford President of the Board 8 years 2 months and then Chief Investment Officer.
of Directors Time on Board Expertise 4 years 1 month Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board in December 2006.
Previously she was a non-executive director and Expertise Chairman of the Audit Committees of the Court of the Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 2011.
She is a Bank of England, Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group Partner at Benhamou Global Ventures, a Silicon Valley-based venture capital rm, where she invests in early stage technology plc and Prudential plc and a non-executive director of O2 companies.
Prior to that, she was a Managing Director of the plc.
Prior to that, she was Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc Mayeld Fund from 2000 to 2013, where she invested in the andInvensys plc, and before that she was a Partner at mobile, wireless, communications and consumer technology Ernst & Young.
Previously, she held various executive positions at 3Com Corporation, including President Palm Computing, President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business Development and Global Marketing.
Prior to 3Com she was Managing Director of BICC Data Networks Ltd. 08 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate governance A balanced Board structure This section and the Directors Remuneration Report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012.
Compliance statement Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision, The Group has complied with the provisions The Board is collectively responsible for the which include: of the UK Corporate Governance Code overall conduct of the Groups business.
September 2012 throughout 2014 and Group strategy and major to the date of this document.
The Group The Boards core activities include: business decisions: also achieved full compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanesproviding leadership for the Group: annual budgets and long-term plans: Oxley Act 2002 US for the ninth successive active engagement in developing the major capital expenditure, acquisitions, year.
The Companys American Depositary Groups long-term strategy: disposals and investments: Shares are listed on NASDAQ and we are therefore subject to and comply fully with monitoring executive actions, standards financial reporting, controls and NASDAQ rules, US Securities laws and of conduct, performance against business financial structure: Securities and Exchange Commission rules to plans and budgets and ensuring that the shareholder communications: the extent that they apply to foreign private necessary financial resources and people issuers.
We explain in the reports below are in place for the Group to meet key policies: how we applied the provisions and principles its objectives: key advisers.
of the FCA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and obtaining assurance that material risks to Transparency Rules, and the UK Corporate The schedule was reviewed in February 2015. the Group are identied, that appropriate Governance Code throughout the year.
systems of risk management and control Composition and operation of the Board exist to mitigate such risks and dening the Groups appetite for risk: At the end of 2014, the Board comprised three executive directors the Chief Executive Board and executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the management succession: Chief Technology Officer, the Chairman, and responsibility for the long-term success of five independent non-executive directors.
the Group having regard to the interests Stuart Chambers became Chairman on of all stakeholders: 1 March 2014 having been appointed to the Board as Chairman designate on 27 January responsibility for ensuring the 2014.
Their biographies appear on pages 6 effectiveness of and reporting on our and 7. system of corporate governance.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 09 Chairman Stuart Chambers Key objectives: leadership, operation and governance of the Board.
Board Nine directors three executive directors, the Chairman and five independent non-executive directors.
Key objectives: the overall conduct of the Groups business and setting the Groups strategy.
Nomination Audit Remuneration Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Three independent Three independent nonThree independent Simon Segars non-executive directors, executive directors, Chairman non-executive directors, Chairman Stuart Chambers Kathleen ODonovan Chairman Larry Hirst Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: to manage the Groups business and, to make recommendations to the to provide effective financial to review and make with the Executive Committee, Board for future appointments to governance and to assist the Board recommendations to the Board on toimplement Group strategy ensure that the Board comprises in ensuring the integrity of the executive remuneration regarding andpolicies.
individuals with appropriate skills, Groups financial reporting.
To the appropriate level for executive knowledge and experience to be provide oversight for the external directors salaries, annual bonus effective in discharging its and internal audit processes, to targets and performance measures responsibilities and to review review the risk management for senior management share-based succession planning.
framework, the effectiveness of risk compensation.
management processes and the system of internal control.
Risk Review Committee Executive Committee Compliance Committee Two executive directors, four other 14 members including the executive One executive director, four other Executive Committee members and three directors, key group and function heads, Executive Committee members and four senior executives, Chairman Mike Muller.
Key objectives: Key objectives: Key objectives: to manage the process to identify and evaluate risks to focus on strategy, the day-to-day running to oversee compliance throughout the business which may impact the Groups strategic and of the business, financial and competitive with all relevant international regulations.
business objectives and to oversee management performance, organisational development, activities designed to mitigate such risks.
succession planning and implementation of policies.
10 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate governance continued... Conicts Independence Board meetings The Board is fully aware of the other The Board reviewed the independence of Board and Committee papers are circulated commitments of the Chairman and the the non-executive directors on appointment electronically before each meeting.
and continues to do so on an ongoing basis.
The business considered at each Board All directors have completed conicts of Kathleen ODonovan, who has now served meeting includes the Chief Executive interest questionnaires and any planned for eight years, remains highly committed and Officers report on the status of the business, changes in their directorships outside the continues to be regarded as independent.
incorporating industry and strategic Group are subject to prior approval by The Nomination Committee has developments and the Chief Financial the Board.
No conicts of interest arose commenced the process to recruit a further Officers report incorporating financial, in 2014 or to date in 2015, and no other non-executive director who is a financial market and investor-related information.
situations have been identied that might expert to take over as Chairman of the On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include lead to a conict of interest.
In her capacity as Senior detailed assessments of risk, governance, where a potential conict arises, the Board Independent Director and Chairman of the corporate responsibility, public affairs, excluding the director concerned would Audit Committee, Kathleen ODonovans performance of the business and geographical consider the situation and either authorise independence is demonstrated on many areas, competitive landscape, R&D and the arrangement in accordance with the occasions each year through her robust organisation succession planning.
Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of approach to questioning management.
Association or take other appropriate action.
In the event that a director is unable to attend The other non-executive directors have a meeting or participate by conference call, Non-executive directors expertise shorter service and are regarded as they receive and read the documents for independent in character, judgement and consideration at that meeting, and have the Kathleen ODonovan has been the Senior behaviour, based on both participation and opportunity to relay their comments and, if Independent Director since January 2011. performance at Board and Committee necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or In this capacity she acts as a sounding meetings.
There are no relationships or the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
board for the Chairman and provides circumstances that are likely to affect the a communication channel between the judgement of any of them.
It is the policy The non-executive directors are encouraged Chairman and the non-executive directors.
of the Board to review the continued to suggest matters for Board discussions, and She is also available to discuss matters with appointment of non-executive directors in 2014 they were active in contributing to the shareholders, if required.
In early 2014, she after six years service.
Stuart Chambers was agenda for the strategy review and ensuring led the Nomination Committee through regarded as independent at the time of his the amount of time spent on strategic the process to conclude the appointment of appointment as Chairman.
and operational issues was appropriately Stuart Chambers as Chairman.
The September 2014 strategy meeting enhanced the Boards understanding John Liu who is based in Beijing, Janice of the competitive landscape and agreed Roberts who is based in Silicon Valley, shortand longer-term strategic objectives.
Larry Hirst, and Andy Green all have a broad The meeting focused on the Groups current understanding of the Groups technology and future activities in China.
Three guest and the practices of major international speakers with in-depth knowledge of technology companies.
Kathleen ODonovan the technology landscape in China gave is a financial expert with a strong financial presentations and participated in question background.
Directors biographies and answer sessions with the Board and local are set out on pages 6 and 7 and their management.
An additional strategy meeting beneficial interests in the share capital of has again been scheduled during 2015 and the Company are set out in the Directors strategy will continue to be covered regularly Remuneration Report.
at Board meetings during the year.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 11 During 2014, the non-executive directors Board attendance encouraged the executive team to allocate Board Meetings attended Conference calls & ad hoc meetings resources to accelerate the development Board meetings eligible for attended calls & meetings eligible for of technology in the Internet of Things Number of scheduled meetings 6 5 arena and to explore new business areas Stuart Chambers appointed 27 January 2014 6 6 5 5 for investment.
Simon Segars 6 6 5 5 Key senior executives attend Board meetings Andy Green 6 6 4 5 throughout the year, which gives the nonLarry Hirst 6 6 5 5 executive directors visibility of executive John Liu appointed 1 December 2014 1 1 0 0 talent below executive director level, direct information about business developments, Mike Muller 6 6 5 5 and informs them about potential Kathleen ODonovan 6 6 5 5 management succession.
In particular, each Janice Roberts 6 6 5 5 year the general managers of the IP group present a review of past performance against Tim Score 6 6 3 5 key objectives and KPIs, and their proposals Sir John Buchanan retired 1 May 2014 2 3 0 1 for the coming year.
Philip Rowley retired 1 May 2014 2 3 1 1 Eric Meurice retired 31 March 2014 2 2 0 0 During 2014, the Chairman held three meetings with the non-executive directors Chairman During 2014, there were regular meetings without the executives present, and the and calls between the Chairman and non-executive directors met on one occasion Stuart Chambers joined the Board on the Chief Executive Officer outside without the Chairman being present.
27 January 2014 and took over from Sir Board meetings, including a visit by the John Buchanan as Chairman on 1 March Chairman to the Groups office in San Jose.
The table on this page shows directors 2014.
He is Chairman of Rexam plc and These discussions provided and continue to attendance at scheduled Board meetings, an independent non-executive director of provide opportunities for the exchange of conference calls and ad hoc meetings which Tesco plc.
information, mentoring and regular updates they were eligible to attend during the 2014 on the business objectives and priorities that financial year.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for the Chairman set for the Chief Executive running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer for 2014.
These priorities are Officer has executive responsibility for the described in more detail on pages 12 and 41. operations and results of the Group, and also for making proposals to the Board in The Chairman participated in various Group relation to the strategic development of the events during 2014 to meet managers and Group.
The Board recognises that the roles employees across the organisation, including of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Global Engineering Conference attended are distinct as described below and also by around 600 ARM engineers and a the importance of maintaining an excellent conference held by the IT team.
He also met working relationship between them.
with shareholders during the year, attended the Analyst and Investor Day and the Annual Partner Meeting, which is the Groups major customer event.
12 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate governance continued... Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive Patricia Alsop acts as Secretary to the leadership of the Board and creating the Officer include: Board and Board Committees and all Board conditions for overall Board and individual members have individual access to her director effectiveness, and a constructive proposing and developing the Groups advice.
She ensures that the Board receives relationship with good communication strategy and overall commercial all relevant information in a timely manner, between the executive and nonobjectives in conjunction with the organises induction and training programmes executive directors: Executive Committee: for new directors, and facilitates the Board evaluation in years when this is conducted ensuring that the Board as a whole day-to-day management of the Groups internally.
She is also responsible for ensuring plays a full and constructive part in the business with the Executive Committee: that the correct Board and Committee development of strategy and overall procedures are followed and advises the chairing the Executive Committee: commercial objectives: Board on corporate governance matters.
maintaining a close working relationship chairing the Nomination Committee, The established procedure under which with the Chairman: which initiates succession planning directors can, where appropriate, obtain to retain and build an effective and independent legal or other professional meeting regularly with ARMs leading complementary Board: advice at the Groups expense is also customers for executive discussions on administered through her.
broad strategic and industry trends: ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders and hosting discussions with inuential Philip Davis will take over the Company that members of the Board develop an media outlets: Secretary role on Patricia Alsops understanding of the views of the major retirement from the Group in May 2015. fostering good relationships with investors in the Group: This is in addition to his responsibilities as ARMs larger shareholders and major promoting the highest standards General Counsel.
financial institutions: of integrity, probity and corporate representing ARM in various industry governance throughout the Group, organisations and professional particularly at Board level: associations, and activities within the local ensuring that the performance of the community and at international level.
Board as a whole, its Committees and individual directors is formally and rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 13 Annual Report, information and Investor relations At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write communication with shareholders and other research reports on the Group and their The Board makes considerable efforts to stakeholders details appear on the Groups website.
establish and maintain good relationships Shareholders can also obtain telephone The ultimate responsibility for reviewing with shareholders and the wider investment numbers from the website, enabling them and approving the Annual Report and the community.
There is regular dialogue with to listen to earnings presentations and audio quarterly earnings releases, and for ensuring institutional investors during the year, except conference calls with analysts.
In addition, that they present a balanced assessment of during close periods.
The main channel of webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations the Groups position, lies with the Board.
communication continues to be through the are made available through the website.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
Members of the Board develop an for managing the Group to the Executive The Chairman, the Senior Independent understanding of the views of major Committee and has a number of other Director and the other directors are shareholders through any direct contact Committees, details of which are set out on available to engage in dialogue with major that may be initiated by shareholders, or the following pages.
through analysts and brokers briengs.
The Board also receives feedback from the The Board encourages communication Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, with private investors and part of the who in turn obtain feedback from analysts Groups website is dedicated to providing and brokers following investor roadshows.
information for all investors, including All shareholders can register to receive the responses to frequently asked questions, the Groups press releases via the internet.
investment case, product information, press releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC announcements, and an interactive online version of the Annual Report.
14 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate governance continued...
Annual General Meeting In addition to the ordinary business, Board evaluation resolutions will also be proposed at the 2015 The Board actively encourages participation The Board undertakes an annual review of its AGM to: at the AGM, scheduled for 30 April 2015, effectiveness.
Following the external review which is the principal forum for dialogue undertaken by Independent Audit in 2013, an authorise the directors generally to allot with private shareholders.
The Circular internally facilitated evaluation was conducted up to 232,891 in nominal amount of and Notice of AGM are being sent to in 2014.
The Chairman and the Company ordinary shares: shareholders concurrently with the Secretary developed a new questionnaire distribution of this report, which is well in and the focus of the 2014 evaluation was the authorise the directors to allot up to a advance of the required 20 working days extent of progress in relation to the four key further 232,891 in nominal amount of before the meeting.
A presentation is action areas identied in the 2013 review.
ordinary shares in connection with a rights made outlining recent developments in the issue as dened in the Notice of AGM : business and an open question-and-answer authorise the directors to allot ordinary session follows to enable shareholders to shares or sell treasury shares for cash ask questions about the business in general.
i otherwise than in connection with a The Chairman, who chairs the Nomination pre-emptive offer as dened in the Committee, will be present at the AGM.
Notice of AGM up to an aggregate He will arrange for the respective chairs of nominal amount of 35,304, or ii in the Audit and Remuneration Committees to connection with a pre-emptive offer be available to answer questions and for all up to an aggregate nominal amount of directors to attend.
35,304, or iii in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal amount of All resolutions proposed at the 2015 AGM 35,304, in each case as if section 561 1 will be decided on a poll and the voting results of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply will be published via RNS and the SEC, and to such allotment or sale.
The period of will also be available on the Groups website.
authorisation will in each case expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM or on 30 June 2016.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 15 These were: The 2014 evaluation covered: 2013 action areas identied Action taken in 2014 Board structure and dynamics: Ensuring that the Board and Committees have the skills We recruited John Liu as an additional non-executive Board meetings: and experience they need going forward director with extensive expertise in Asia, particularly in China.
The membership of all committees was reviewed Meeting administration: during 2014 and changes were made to the composition of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Board committees Audit, Remuneration Committees.
The Nomination Committee is developing and Nomination: candidate briefs for further searches in 2015 for independent non-executive directors with appropriate Strategy review: skills, experience and diversity to complement our existing Board members and maintain, collectively, an Risk management, corporate governance effective Board.
and corporate responsibility: Further improving the culture and dynamics in the The consensus from the 2014 Board evaluation is that Key challenges for 2015.
Boardroom, with each Board member developing culture and dynamics in the Boardroom have improved a clear understanding of the Boards role and their during the year and Board members roles are better The overall conclusion was that individual individual role dened and understood.
Board members agreed to aim Board members are satisfied that the Board to spend more time together outside formal meetings works well and operates effectively in an and the Board will continue to discuss and review this during 2015. environment where there is constructive Reviewing the KPIs and Board information and ensuring The review concluded that the KPIs and information challenge from the non-executive directors.
they are t for purpose provided to the Board were broadly t for purpose.
They are also satisfied with the contribution However, some enhancements were proposed, trialled made by their colleagues and that Board and have now been built into the Board reports.
KPIs Committees operate properly and efficiently.
are described in more detail in the Strategic Report on The three remaining action areas referred pages 23 to 30.
This action area has been removed from to above will continue to be priorities in the priorities list for 2015.
2015, with continued enhancement of the Exiting the year with greater clarity and a more ARMs vision, mission and strategy were reviewed and harmonised Board view on the long-term vision for the refreshed during 2014.
The consensus from the 2014 induction and ongoing training process for business and the consequent strategic priorities Board evaluation is that there is a better understanding Board members identied as an additional of the long-term vision for the business and consequent area of focus.
These were reviewed in detail at the September Strategy meeting which was unanimously An internally facilitated Board evaluation agreed to have been well prepared and focused on will take place during 2015 and the Board appropriate areas for future development.
These areas intends to continue with a cycle of external include developing technology to address servers and networking infrastructure and the market associated evaluations every three years with internal with the Internet of Things.
More details are contained evaluations in between.
in the Strategic Report on page 22 to 23.
The Chairman had a detailed individual discussion with each non-executive director during 2014, in addition to his regular conversations with the CEO.
A process is in place for the Senior Independent Director to meet with each non-executive director individually to provide feedback on the Chairman and on any issues of concern.
16 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate governance continued...
Induction All members of the Board are encouraged Training to spend time outside Board meetings with A personalised induction programme is Board members receive guidance on the members of the Executive Committee arranged for new directors, tailored to their regulatory regimes and corporate governance and senior management and a number specic requirements, the aim of which is to framework that the Group operates under.
of individual meetings took place during introduce them to key executives across the In particular, during 2014 the Board received 2014, which will continue during 2015. business and to enhance their knowledge and an update from the Company Secretary All Board members are invited to attend understanding of the Group and its activities.
on current governance topics including the annual ARM Partner Meeting in the UK, In 2014, this included a comprehensive executive remuneration and Board diversity.
which is the Groups key customer event induction programme for Stuart Chambers, The Board also participated in a detailed of the year and or the ARM TechCon in who was appointed to the Board on workshop led by the Groups external the US.
Board members are also invited 27 January 2014 and took over the Chairman auditors covering recent and forthcoming to attend the annual Analyst and Investor role on 1 March 2014.
This included several developments in corporate governance, Day.
These events offer the opportunity days with the Chief Executive Officer in audit, reporting, financial accounting and tax.
to understand more about the business, Silicon Valley to see the Groups operations John Liu attended a session with the Groups products, technology development roadmap, and meet senior executives based there, in external lawyers covering the responsibilities customer base and investor perspective.
addition to a series of individual meetings of being a director of a UK listed company.
with Board members, senior executives The Group has a commitment to training and external advisers based in the UK.
and all directors, executive or non-executive, The Chairman has regular meetings and are encouraged to attend suitable training calls with the CEO, CFO, CTO, Company courses at the Groups expense.
A similar induction programme is underway for John Liu with a Terms of reference focus on the Groups activities in Asia.
He has The terms of reference of the Audit, become a member of the Groups Asia Remuneration and Nomination Committees Advisory Group which meets three times are published on the Groups website at each year.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 17 Executive Committee Executive Committee meetings are attended Management structure by other senior operational personnel, as The Executive Committee is responsible for The Group has a traditional UK Board appropriate.
In recognition of the increasing developing and implementing the strategy structure with a unitary Board comprising importance of Asia as both a market and an approved by the Board.
In particular, the the Chairman, executive and non-executive engineering base, the EVP and President of Committee is responsible for ensuring directors.
The Audit and Remuneration ARM Greater China, who is based in China, that the Groups budget and forecasts are Committees are made up of independent became a full member of the Executive properly prepared, that targets are met, non-executive directors and they, together Committee on 1 July 2014, having previously and for generally managing and developing with the Nomination Committee, report been an observer.
the business within the overall budget.
Each of the operations and In addition, the Committee ensures that functions of the Group report to the Biographies of the members of the Executive risks identied through the Business Planning Executive Committee.
The Risk Review Committee appear on the Groups website at process, particularly corporate-level risks, Committee reports periodically to the www.
are managed and mitigated to the greatest Executive Committee, Audit Committee and extent possible.
Variations from the budget the Board.
The VP Business Assurance Head and changes in strategy require approval from of Internal Audit also has a separate reporting the main Board of the Group.
The Executive line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Committee, which meets monthly, now comprises: the Chief Executive Officer the Chief Financial Officer the Chief Technology Officer the Chief Operating Officer the Chief Information Officer the EVP and President Product Groups the EVP and President of Commercial and Global Development the Chief Marketing Officer the EVP Strategy the EVP and President ARM Greater China the EVP Technical Operations the EVP People the General Counsel the Company Secretary 18 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Audit Committee report The Committees key objectives are to provide effective financial governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee oversees the external and internal audit processes, and reviews the risk management framework, the effectiveness of the risk management processes, and the system of internal control.
The Committee will continue to evolve its activities in the light of guidance from regulators and prevailing economic conditions.
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2014 Meetings attended eligible Name of director Position meetings Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 6 6 Kathleen ODonovan Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 6 6 Committee Chairman Andy Green appointed 1 May 2014 Independent non-executive director 3 3 Philip Rowley retired 1 May 2014 Independent non-executive director 2 3 Eric Meurice retired 31 March 2014 Independent non-executive director 2 2 Kathleen ODonovan has chaired the The Chairman of the Committee also has Committee since January 2011.
She is separate meetings with the VP Business qualied as the Committee financial expert Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the as dened in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Chairman of the Risk Review Committee, US and has recent and relevant financial the external auditors, the Chief Financial expertise in compliance with the Code Officer, the Company Secretary, the VP provision C3.1.
The external auditors, Chief Investor Relations and the VP Finance, ARM Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Group during the year.
This is to discuss their VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business ongoing work and any areas of concern, Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the Head and also to enable certain members of of Tax and the Company Secretary attend management, such as the Chief Information all meetings in order to ensure that all the Officer and the General Counsel, to report information required by the Committee for it on key areas of risk and control.
to operate effectively is available.
The Group Chairman and other Board members also During 2014, the Chairman of the attend Committee meetings from time Committee and the external audit partner to time.
again organised a meeting for the UK-based  LLP PwC audit The Chairman of the Audit Committee and tax teams and the ARM finance and reports to the Board on how the Committee tax teams to discuss the audit approach, has discharged its responsibilities.
to understand the planning for the yearend, and to gain insights into the corporate governance environment and the Groups Representatives of the Groups external expectations from the internal and external auditors have a private session with audit processes.
the Committee prior to each meeting, without other management being present.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 19 Principal activities the process and procedures whereby consideration of the judgements employees can raise concerns regarding surrounding the goodwill impairment The principal activities of the Committee potential impropriety: review performed in the fourth quarter during 2014 were the monitoring and of 2014.
In light of the continuing strong reviewing of: the effectiveness of the Audit Committee performance of the Group in the year, and our own Terms of Reference.
the Committee was comfortable the integrity of the financial statements of with managements assessment that, the Group and any formal announcements The integrity of financial reporting after considering various scenarios relating to the Groups financial The Committee reviewed the integrity incorporating various sensitivity and stress performance and reviewing any significant of the financial statements of the Group tests, no impairment in carrying value financial reporting judgements and the and all formal announcements relating was required: clarity of disclosures: to the Groups financial performance.
consideration of managements judgement the Groups risk management framework Each quarter, the Committee reviewed regarding the level of provision required to and process and the effectiveness of accounting papers prepared by management be carried in relation to ongoing litigation the Groups internal controls over on areas of financial reporting judgement involving either the Group or its licensees, financial reporting: and matters giving rise to exceptional items.
and in particular where the Group may These included: the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance be required to indemnify its licensees, and testing for the Groups reporting including receiving regular updates from consideration of the accounting treatment under its SEC obligations: the Groups General Counsel: of substantial transactions, including any the framework for ensuring compliance judgemental matters in relation to revenue consideration of the key judgements with legal requirements, accounting recognition for major licence contracts made in estimating the Groups tax charge standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial with customers, which concluded and review of any provisions in respect Conduct Authority FCA and the that revenue had been accounted of ongoing tax matters, together with requirements of the SEC: for appropriately: assessment from independent experts: the assessment of going concern, in consideration of the appropriate operating consideration of the Groups tax strategy advance of its consideration by the Board: segments and cash generating units of the and key developments that may inuence Group which concluded that the business the Groups global tax position: the work and results of Business now has one reportable segment: Assurance and Internal Audit in relation reviewing reports from the Compliance to the 2014 Audit Plan and approving the reviewing the Adjusted Performance and Disclosure Committees relating to any Audit Plan for 2015: Measures used by the Group and matters relevant to the financial reporting referred to as normalised performance of the Group.
the effectiveness and integrity of the 2014 measures.
Our aim is to ensure they are external audit process: including assessing properly derived, consistently treated the external auditors independence and and transparently presented, and are objectivity, the effectiveness of the audit appropriately balanced with regard to the process and fees, the engagement of the required IFRS measures.
We review the external auditors to supply non-audit work by the finance team, the Disclosure services and assessing their nature, extent Committee and the external auditors: and cost effectiveness: as well as making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external auditors: 20 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Audit Committee report continued... Fair, balanced and understandable We have seen continued improvement in the The Audit Committee has reviewed and transparency and active ownership of risk approved the system of internal control, In line with the requirement in the UK management throughout the organisation, including internal controls over the Corporate Governance Code September driven and supported by a strong tone at the consolidation process and financial reporting, 2012 based on both internal and external top.
We have noted the growing strength of which have been in place for the year under audit reviews and conrmations from the three lines of defence.
We are pleased review and up to the date of approval of management, the Committee and the Board with the progress achieved, however there the Annual Report and financial statements, believe that the Annual Report taken as a remains more still to do and work in these and has reported to the Board on any whole is fair, balanced and understandable areas will be ongoing in 2015. relevant matters.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups More details regarding the risks and their Compliance with the Listing Rules of the performance, business model and strategy.
management during the year are included on FCA, the UK Corporate Governance Code pages 31 to 37 in the Strategic Report.
and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US The effectiveness of risk management, internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley control The Audit Committee has reviewed the The COSO framework of internal control framework framework for ensuring compliance with continues to be implemented across the the requirements of the FRC, SEC and UK We believe that an effective and robust organisation.
The processes and procedures Corporate Governance.
Throughout 2014, risk management framework and system for identifying, evaluating and managing the Group complied fully with the UK of internal control is essential to achieving the significant business, operational, Corporate Governance Code September a reliable business performance.
On behalf financial, compliance and other risks have 2012, the Listing Rules of the FCA and also of the Board we review the effectiveness been successfully integrated into daywith the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
of these processes with regard to the to-day business operations through our key operational, financial and compliance internal control system known as the ARM Going concern controls.
This is an area of evolution in Management System AMS and associated the light of business circumstances, the In advance of the consideration by the Board Audit Assurance System.
We note the on going concern, the Audit Committee continued focus and improvement in this area reviewed the 2015 budget and longer-term The AMS is fully documented and during the year.
plans and considered any reasonably likely compliance is monitored through audits and scenarios that may occur.
The Committee periodic controls testing during each year.
In conjunction with management and the is satisfied that, at the time of approving The effectiveness of individual controls is Risk Review Committee, the Committee the financial statements, it is appropriate to also reviewed with their owners within the continued to oversee the Groups risk adopt the going concern basis in preparing operations and functions of the Group to assessment and reporting framework, the financial statements of both the Group ensure efficacy and relevance.
The Business with assistance and guidance from external and the parent Company.
This view was Assurance function reports on the status of advisers.
The format for the Corporate supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress the AMS to the Audit Committee at least Risk Register, Risk Assurance Matrix and tests undertaken at the year-end which twice each year.
The Compliance and Audit Risk Heatmap has evolved further during showed that some extreme assumptions Committees also monitor the satisfactory 2014, with feedback from the Board being would have to be made before there is a remediation of any identied control issues provided through the ongoing strategic negative impact.
risk appetite discussions and the continual assessment of the risk factors in current operations.
Group Risk Registers are also now established for each of the operations and functions of the Group and are normally reviewed and updated twice a year.
The risk management arrangements are reviewed and discussed at Executive Committee meetings throughout the year.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 21 The work of Business Assurance and External audit plan and approach Auditor effectiveness and partner rotation InternalAudit During the year we reviewed PwCs audit PwC have been the Groups auditors since it The Committee noted further improvements strategy, the audit approach, key areas listed on the London Stock Exchange in April in the development and effectiveness of the of focus, materiality and the audit plan.
The external auditors are required Business Assurance Internal Audit function PwC explained their risk-based approach, to rotate the audit partner responsible for in 2014.
In particular, the Audit Assurance including the interaction with their work the Group and subsidiary audits every fifth System which provides improved document on internal control for the purposes of year-end.
The last audit partner rotation took control, risk assessment and reporting was expressing an opinion under section 404 place early in 2012.
The Committee considers reviewed and further improvements were of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The results that the relationship with the auditors is completed.
We reviewed the resources of of those procedures were reported in working well and remains satisfied with their the team and the plans for their deployment December 2014 and January and February objectivity and effectiveness.
The Committee during the year.
No material misstatements remained is also satisfied with the quality of challenge, relationships between the Assurance team unadjusted in the financial statements.
scepticism and execution by the auditors and the Compliance and Risk Review and this view is supported by a review of the Committees, as well as the working In addition to the private meetings held with effectiveness of the external audit process, relationship with the external auditors PwC the external auditors and the Committee, which was undertaken in December 2014 and Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
the Chairman of the Committee meets with and reported on in January 2015 involving the PwC team on a regular basis to provide Board members and senior managers who ARMs Internal Audit function develops an the opportunity for an open communication interact with the auditors.
The review looked annual audit plan to provide assurance that regarding any concerns, aswell as to at the robustness of the audit, and the the risk management activities identied to understand their assessment ofkey quality of delivery, people and service, and mitigate the risks are designed and operating judgements as they arise.
concluded that the auditors are effective, and effectively and that corrective action is being that the 2014 audit process had worked well.
Some minor areas were noted for continuing improvement and will be monitored in 2015.
As well as the Committees formal meeting with the VP Business Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the Chairman of the Committee meets with him informally throughout the year in order to provide the opportunity for open and timely dialogue.
Typically there is a discussion about the content and quality of papers intended for the Committee, emerging business risks, the quality of engagement with Internal Audit and any concerns that may have arisen.
22 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Audit Committee report continued...
Process and procedures whereby employees Tenure of external auditors Policy on auditors providing non-audit can raise concerns regarding potential services On the basis of the Committees continued impropriety satisfaction with the performance and To avoid the possibility of the auditors The Group operates a whistleblowing policy effectiveness of PwC as described above, objectivity and independence being which sets out procedures for employees to it has not considered it necessary to date to compromised, there is an agreed policy in report concerns about any unethical business require the rm to tender for the audit work.
place on the provision of non-audit services practices to senior management in strict The Committee is actively monitoring the by the auditors, which sets out arrangements confidence and without fear of recrimination.
EU audit directive and ongoing discussions in for approving: The Audit Committee receives details of this area at the Financial Reporting Council, any such condential reports from the the EU and the Competition Commission.
services that require general pre-approval Compliance Committee.
There were three Taking account of the changes to the by the Committee: whistleblowing reports in 2014, all of which regulatory regime relating to mandatory services that require specic prewere reviewed by the Audit Committee.
audit tendering, the Committee expects to approval by the Committee before None of these cases were found to involve conduct an audit tender before 2018. work commences: any financial or other loss to the Group.
All were thoroughly investigated in one case Auditor independence services that cannot be provided by involving a more detailed on-site investigation the auditors.
The auditors are required to, and do, by members of the Internal Audit team communicate with the Committee at least This non-audit services policy is reviewed and appropriate actions were taken.
annually as to whether there are any threats annually.
The Groups tax advisory work These involved reinforcing Group policies and to their independence and objectivity and, is carried out by the auditors only in cases procedures with employees in the relevant if there are, what safeguards have been where they are deemed to be best suited locations through additional training and applied.
The Committee has also reviewed to perform the work in a cost-effective increased management supervision.
All of the auditors transparency report, paying manner, given their familiarity with the these matters are regarded by the Audit particular attention to the sections covering Groups business.
In other cases, the Group Committee as being closed.
internal controls, independence policies and has engaged another independent rm the results of external regulator reviews.
of accountants to perform tax advisory Effectiveness of the Audit Committee and Having reviewed the safeguards in place, and work.
The Group does not normally award our own Terms of Reference.
the contents of the transparency report, general consulting work to the auditors, A review of the effectiveness of the Audit as well as noting the regular and recent although they did provide advice on the Committee was undertaken in December rotation of the audit partner, the Committee Groups procurement model in 2014.
2014 and reported on in January 2015.
The is satisfied that the auditors procedures are From time to time, the Group will engage review involved Audit Committee members, sufficient to maintain their independence the auditors to perform work on matters members of senior management who and objectivity.
The Committee has also relating to benchmarking of the internal interact with the Audit Committee and the considered the level of non-audit fees and audit function, human resources, and royalty external auditors.
The review considered the believes that these are at a level which audits.
Total fees for non-audit services were Committee processes and the knowledge does not compromise their objectivity or 52,000 for taxation services and 78,000 and behaviour of the Committee members independence in any way.
for royalty, procurement and other services.
and concluded that the Audit Committee This represents 15% of the amount spent on is effective.
Some minor areas were noted There are no contractual obligations audit and audit-related services.
A breakdown for continuing improvement and will be restricting the Groups choice of external of fees paid to the auditors can be found in monitored in 2015. auditor.
The Committee also keeps under note 5 to the financial statements.
review the value for money of the audit.
The Audit Committee reviews its Terms of Reference on an annual basis and is satisfied that they are appropriate.
The Terms of Kathleen ODonovan Reference have been agreed with the Board.
Committee Chairman 17 February 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 23 Nomination Committee report The Committees three key tasks in 2014 were concluding the appointment of Stuart Chambers as the new Chairman, appointing Chris Kennedy, who will join the Board as CFO as soon as he has completed his current commitments and appointing John Liu who joined the Board on 1 December 2014 as an additional independent non-executive director.
These appointments resulted from extensive externally conducted reviews of candidates.
As announced on 27 January 2014, it was The Committee has reviewed the skills, with much regret that Sir John Buchanan experience and attributes of the current stepped down as Chairman on 1 March non-executive directors, which has informed 2014, and retired from the Board at the AGM the qualities to be sought when making Stuart Chambers on 1 May 2014 due to a medical condition.
Nomination Committee Chairman The Committee, led for this purpose by the Our goal is to ensure that the Board and its from 1 March 2014 Senior Independent Director, was active in committees comprise individuals with the 2013 and early 2014 in nalising arrangements requisite skills, knowledge and experience for my appointment as Chairman.
I joined to maximise effectiveness in discharging our the Group on 27 January 2014 as Chairman duties.
In particular, this led us to search Designate and took over as Chairman on for a non-executive director with direct 1 March 2014. knowledge and experience of doing business in Asia, particularly Greater China, which resulted in the appointment of John Liu.
24 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Nomination Committee report continued...
Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2014 Meetings attended eligible Name of director Position meetings Stuart Chambers Chairman Chairman from 1 March 2014 5 5 Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director 5 5 Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5 5 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director retired 1 May 2014 1 1 Sir John Buchanan Chairman retired as Chairman on 1 March 2014 and 0 0 from the Board on 1 May 2014 During the year, the activities of the In addition to leading the process Committee included engaging external search for Board appointments and making rms to seek and introduce candidates and recommendations to the Board in relation to interviewing a number of candidates in each new appointments, the Committees general case for the following roles: responsibilities include: reviewing succession planning, Board Chairman, which resulted in the composition and balance: Committee recommending the appointment of Stuart Chambers: considering the roles and capabilities Independent non-executive director, required for each new appointment, based which resulted in the Committee on an evaluation of the skill, experience, recommending the appointment of independence and knowledge of the John Liu: existing directors.
During 2014, the Board identied the skills and attributes required Chief Financial Officer, which resulted for the Board collectively and developed in the Committee recommending the a detailed matrix mapping individual appointment of Chris Kennedy.
Board members attributes against these.
This provides an informed basis for future The Chairman led the processes for searches and recruitment.
the appointment of John Liu and Chris Kennedy, in the latter case working closely Our policy on diversity is set out in more with the CEO to whom the role reports.
detail in the Directors report.
In summary, Kathleen ODonovan, in her capacity as the we are committed to recruitment which Senior Independent Director, led the process is based on equal opportunities for all, for the appointment of the new Chairman, irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, chairing relevant meetings of the Nomination disability, religious affiliation, sexual Committee and a number of conference calls orientation or marital status.
the Committee will continue to review the composition of the Board and its committees The external search rms were Zygos in to ensure that we continue to maintain, the case of the Chairman recruitment, Egon collectively, a highly effective Board.
Zehnder in relation to the non-executive director recruitment and Russell Reynolds for the CFO recruitment.
There is no connection between the Group, or any individual Stuart Chambers director and any of the search rms.
Chairman from 1 March 2014 17 February 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 25 Corporate Governance report Internal control risk management the safeguarding of assets from statements and appropriate disclosures are inappropriate use or from loss and fraud, considered and accurately stated.
The Audit The Group fully complies with the UK and ensuring that liabilities are identied Committee reports to the Board on matters Corporate Governance Code September and managed: of financial reporting and internal controls.
2012 s provisions on internal control, having established procedures to implement in full the quality of internal and The CRR, risk appetite and a draft set of the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: external reporting: guiding principles were reviewed by the Revised Guidance for Directors on the compliance with applicable laws and Board in January 2014 and provided a Combined Code.
The Groups risks are regulations and with internal policies on good starting point to review plans for the managed within a systematic process of risk the conduct of the Groups business: and development and implementation of the identication and assessment.
Risk appetite will continue risk management process is explained in the the ability to recover in a timely manner to be discussed and rened during 2015.
Risk management and principal risks section from the effects of disasters or major During 2014, the Board confirmed that the on pages 31 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
accidents that originate outside the level of residual risk is regarded as acceptable Groups direct control.
and within normal parameters for a company The Group notes the provisions of the Compliance with section 404 of the operating in ARMs sphere of business.
updated UK Corporate Governance Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US has been Code published by the Financial Reporting successfully achieved for each financial year Control systems are designed to manage Council in September 2014, and applying since it became effective for foreign private rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a to the Groups accounting period beginning issuers in 2006.
This is reported on in more fast-moving, high-technology business and 1 January 2015.
The Group is complying fully detail in the Annual Report on Form 20-F can, therefore, provide only reasonable with the provisions of the updated Code and that is led with the SEC.
The processes and and not absolute assurance against material will report on this in its 2015 Annual Report.
procedures for identifying, evaluating and misstatement or loss.
managing the significant business, operational, The Audit Committee is responsible financial, compliance and other risks facing Remuneration Committee for ensuring that the risk management the Group have been successfully integrated framework and process is operating A description of the composition, into day-to-day business operations through effectively.
The Risk Review Committee responsibilities and operation of the our internal control system.
This is known reviews the Corporate Risk Register CRR, Remuneration Committee is set out in the as the ARM Management System AMS and Group Risk Registers and Risk Heatmap Directors Remuneration Report on page 34. associated Audit Assurance System and is normally on a quarterly basis.
The Audit proven to provide a sustainable solution for Committee also reviews these documents The Group has a number of other ongoing compliance.
and the Risk Assurance Matrix, discusses as committees and bodies that contribute to the appropriate with the Chairman of the Risk overall control environment.
These include: The AMS, which covers financial, compliance Review Committee and reviews the minutes and operational controls, is fully documented of its meetings.
The Executive Committee Risk Review Committee and compliance is monitored through audits and the Board also review these documents Membership of the Risk Review Committee and periodic controls testing during each at least twice each year.
The Board confirms was expanded during 2014 and now year.
The effectiveness of individual controls that the necessary actions have been or are comprises the Chief Technology Officer, the is also reviewed with their owners within the being taken to remedy any significant failings Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating operations and functions of the Group to or weaknesses identied from this process in Officer, the EVP and President Product ensure efficacy and relevance.
Groups, the Chief Information Officer, the Assurance function reports on the status of VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business the AMS to the Audit Committee at least The Board has overall responsibility for Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the twice each year.
The Compliance and Audit ensuring that the Group maintains an VP Planning and the Company Secretary.
Committees also monitor the satisfactory adequate system of internal control and The Groups process for the identication, remediation of any identied control issues risk management, and for reviewing its ownership, mitigation and reporting of risk with Group-level signicance.
effectiveness, while implementation of was enhanced further during 2014 with internal control systems is the responsibility renements to the CRR and the introduction The Audit Committee has reviewed and of management.
The Group has implemented of Group Risk Registers.
The Committee approved the system of internal control, an internal control system designed to established a CRR some years ago, which including internal controls over the help ensure: summarises the key risks faced by the consolidation process and financial reporting, Group.
The CRR includes a description which have been in place for the year under the effective and efficient operation of of the overall risk, the risk factors, the risk review and up to the date of approval of the Group by enabling management owner and the risk management activities the Annual Report and financial statements.
to respond appropriately to significant including operational and oversight activities These controls consist of extensive reviews risks to achieving the Groups as dened in the three lines of defence by qualied and experienced individuals, business objectives: model.
Residual risks are assessed in terms underpinned by a system of checklists which of likelihood and impact and mapped onto a ensures that all elements of the financial 26 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate Governance report continued... Risk Heatmap.
Further risk mitigation plans continuity and security processes and policies.
Internal audit function are dened to reduce the residual risk if The Compliance Committee reports to the The Group has an internal audit function that judged necessary.
The sources of assurance Executive Committee and its minutes are meets the criteria set out in the key practice are dened on a separate Risk Assurance reviewed by the Audit Committee and the standards prescribed by the Institute of Matrix.
Each risk on the CRR is owned by a Board.
The Chairman of the Compliance Internal Auditors.
This internal audit function member of the senior management team.
Committee is available to discuss matters develops an annual audit plan to provide Risk mitigation plans are managed within the as appropriate with the Audit Committee assurance that the risk management activities relevant objectives of the Groups operations and Board.
identied to mitigate risk are designed and and functions.
operating effectively and that corrective Disclosure Committee action is being taken where necessary.
The Risk Review Committee typically meets The Disclosure Committee comprises the The internal audit function undertook a on a quarterly basis to review the CRR Chief Executive Officer Chairman, the range of financial and operational audits and identify other risks that need to be Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM in 2014 in line with the plan agreed with incorporated.
Each risk owner is required to Group, the General Counsel, the VP Investor the Audit Committee.
Additional internal review and demonstrate that residual risks Relations and the Company Secretary.
It is audit resource is provided by co-sourcing are being appropriately mitigated via the risk arrangements with independent third-parties.
responsible for ensuring that disclosures mitigation plans, which are normally updated made by the Group to its shareholders and bi-annually.
Changes that could impact the the investment community are accurate, In December 2014, the Group successfully CRR are reviewed by the Committee.
complete and fairly present the Groups achieved certicate renewal for: financial condition in all material respects.
The Risk Review Committee reports to The Disclosure Committee reports to the ISO 27001, the international standard for the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Information Security Management: and Each quarter, the Board and the Audit ISO 22301, the international standard for Committee receive copies of the minutes Management structure Business Continuity Management.
of Risk Review Committee meetings, the In addition, there are various committees, CRR and the Risk Heatmap.
These provide The Group also has certication for ISO governance review teams and operational greater visibility of the range of risks, the 9001, the international standard for Business review meetings that span the Group.
ways in which such risks are mitigated, and Quality Management, which was maintained These include the regular Executive an assessment of the level and acceptability throughout the year.
Committee meetings chaired by the Chief of residual risk.
The Committee reports Executive Officer and the weekly Business formally on the CRR to the Executive The Groups management system AMS Review Meeting chaired by the Chief Committee twice a year, where its findings documents processes and responsibilities Operating Officer, the purpose of which are considered and challenged.
across all functions and operations.
As an is to monitor and control all main business autonomous part of this system, the internal activities, revenue forecasts and other More information on industry trends audit function carries out a programme of matters requiring approval.
In addition, as and associated risks and opportunities audits to assess its design and operating part of the overall structure, management are included in the Risk management and effectiveness, resulting in continuous reviews with representatives from the principal risks section of the Strategic maintenance and improvement of the system, operations and functions revenues, orders Report on pages 31 to 37 and in the Annual adapting to changes in business operations booked, costs, product and project delivery Report on Form 20-F for the year ended as necessary.
dates, and levels of defects found in products 31 December 2014 which is available on the in development.
Relevant issues are escalated Groups website at www.
To demonstrate compliance with the to the Executive Committee which, in Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit turn, raises relevant issues to the Board of Compliance Committee function also maintains the documented the Group.
The Compliance Committee consists of controls over financial reporting and the General Counsel Chairman, the Chief confirms the operation of them either by The four governance review teams report to Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, direct testing or through a monitored selfthe Compliance Committee, which in turn the Company Secretary, the VP Business assessment programme.
The management reports to the Executive Committee.
Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the Chief system is audited externally by Lloyds Information Officer, the General Manager Register Quality Assurance for compliance Partner Enablement, the Director Global with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, HR Services and the Business Assurance ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2012 and as Audit Manager.
It oversees compliance part of their business assurance approach, throughout the business with all relevant they support our Sarbanes-Oxley international regulations, export controls, compliance activity.
trading requirements and standards, including direct oversight of financial, employment, health and safety, environmental, business Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 27 Any significant control failings identied Arrangements with contractors and suppliers ARM University Programme through the internal audit function or the have been and will continue to be reviewed The ARM University Programme aims to external auditors are brought to the attention and updated to reect the requirements increase the Groups and our Partners of the Compliance Committee and undergo of the Act.
The Compliance Committee reach in academia worldwide with the a detailed process of evaluation of both oversees the reporting procedures and objective of training the next generation the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
monitors and escalates reports in appropriate of engineers on ARM-based technologies.
There is then a process for communication circumstances.
There were no reports of By building multiple channels with diverse of any significant control failures to the Audit concern during 2014 or up to 16 February partners, the programme once again Committee.
There were no material control 2015, being the latest practicable date before doubled its adopted course and laboratory failures during 2014 or up to 16 February the printing of this report.
This was achieved 2015, being the latest practicable date before through closer collaboration with the wider the printing of this report.
Human rights and equal opportunities ARM ecosystem, new partnership models The Group has signed the Universal and novel streamlined methods to produce Whistleblowing policy new education kits across a broad range of Declaration of Human Rights and has The Group operates a whistleblowing policy hardware platforms and academic topics.
integrated relevant human rights principles which sets out procedures for employees to into its policies for employees and report concerns about any unethical business contractors.
There is growing interest The past year also saw the development practices to senior management in strict worldwide in the issue of the impact of of an online strategy with new content and confidence and without fear of recrimination.
delivery channels designed to meet the The policy was reviewed and updated during expectations of todays student population.
2014 with the aim of increasing employees As a result of our work with Shift, a specialist As we develop this further in 2015 and understanding of the circumstances in which NGO working on business and human beyond, the programme will partner with they should raise concerns and the process to rights in 2013, we are confident that our industry, governments and academia to do this.
If they prefer, they can report matters risk in this area is low.
We have adopted create new forms of learning content and anonymously through an independent a specic Human Rights Policy within our delivery platforms.
We believe this to be third-party telephone line.
The third-party Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, in the best way to meet the often conicting telephone line is tested regularly to ensure addition to our existing policies on conict demands of high-quality, low-cost and widely that employees can use it if they have minerals, business ethics, discrimination and accessible tuition.
The Audit Committee receives export controls.
Our Human Rights Policy art technologies such as e-Learning will be details of any such condential reports from underlines our commitment to trying to a key ingredient in this new extension to the Compliance Committee.
See page 22 for avoid any adverse impact on human rights the programme.
in the way we conduct our operations, and designates contact points within the senior The Group and our Partners are already We have also translated the whistleblowing executive team for any employee to seek seeing the benets of the ARM University policy into Chinese simplied and advice on any issue that might have human Programmes activities as it educates tens traditional, Japanese and Korean to ensure rights implications.
of thousands of students worldwide on correct understanding in those countries.
ARM technologies, preparing them for In 2015 to date there have been no The Group strives for equal opportunities the numerous employment opportunities whistleblowing reports.
for all its employees and does not tolerate available in the ARM ecosystem.
any harassment of, or discrimination against, Anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures its staff.
A more detailed description of our Environmental, social, corporate governance The Groups Code of Business Conduct policies on diversity and equal opportunities and ethical policies and Ethics, which is available on the Groups is included in the Directors report on page While the Group is accountable to its website, and the Company Rules incorporate 29.
The Group endeavours to be honest and shareholders, it also endeavours to take into appropriate provisions to meet our fair in its relationships with its customers and account the interests of all its stakeholders, obligations under the UK Bribery Act 2010. suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen, including employees, customers and suppliers A training and communication programme respecting the laws of the countries in which and the local communities and environments is in place to ensure that employees it operates.
The Chief Executive understand the requirements of the Act and Officer and the Chief Financial Officer take the reporting procedures.
This is targeted at responsibility for these matters, which are employees in roles or working in countries considered at Board level.
that are regarded as higher risk.
Full details of our CR strategy and achievements can be found in the main CR report on our website www.
arm reporting2014 and a summary of highlights from the year are included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic Report on page 43.
28 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Corporate Governance report continued...
The Group regularly monitors employees The Group has continued to partner with Directors authority awareness of Group policies and procedures, companies working in the low-impact building The directors are responsible for the including its conduct and ethical policies.
We have installations in management of the business of ARM and Employees and temporary contractors place with Intellisense, Enlight and Alert Me may exercise all powers of ARM subject to reconrm their understanding of key policies in our Cambridge offices, improving our applicable legislation and regulation and the each year to help reinforce awareness.
environmental performance using energyArticles of Association.
Areas such as lighting control and environmental monitoring The Group operates from a global At the 2014 AGM, the directors were given of plant for improved building efficiency are portfolio of offices located in 18 countries.
authority to buy back a maximum number of being developed with these partners and will The portfolio is made up entirely of offices 140,891,000 ordinary shares at a minimum be extended to other key sites and new build since the Group has no manufacturing price of 0.05 pence each.
The Group continued to enhance its activities.
As such there are no hazardous price was an amount equal to 105% of the environmental data collection and reporting substances nor complex waste streams to be average of the closing mid-market prices of ability during 2014 to support the work of our managed as part of our business operations.
ARMs ordinary shares as derived from the Energy Use and Climate Change Committee The Groups principal activity involves the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for EUCCC.
This is an Executive-sponsored use of IT-based engineering tools to create the five business days immediately preceding steering group that directs activity relating intellectual property.
With the exception of the day on which such ordinary shares are to environmental stewardship and the development systems products, the majority contracted to be purchased.
This authority management of our environmental aspects.
of products sold by the Group comprise will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of microprocessor core and physical IP designs the 2015 AGM or 30 June 2015.
During 2014, that are delivered electronically to customers.
The Groups environmental policy is a total of 7,852,543 shares were re-purchased published on our website within the and are held in treasury.
Share buy backs are The Groups ongoing environmental impact CR report.
expected to continue to be made at a level analysis informs management about key which will broadly offset dilution resulting environmental factors and how it can reduce In line with the Companies Act 2006, the from employee share grants.
the impacts associated with them.
In 2014, Articles of Association enable the Group the Groups advanced compute resource to send information to shareholders A resolution will be proposed as a special requirement continued with the completion electronically and make documents available resolution at the 2015 AGM to give ARM of a second major data centre hub in Austin, through the website rather than in hard copy, authority to acquire up to 141,146,000 Texas.
Alongside our Cambridge data which provides both environmental and cost ordinary shares following expiry of the centre, this installation has received CEEDA benets.
Shareholders can opt to continue current authority.
The directors will use this Certied Energy Efficient Datacentre receiving a printed copy of the Annual authority only after careful consideration, Award accreditation for energy-efficiency Report, subject to availability.
taking into account market conditions and recently, it was awarded the accolade of prevailing at the time, other investment Green Data Centre of the year at the North Health and safety opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and American DCD Awards ceremony.
The Group operates in an industry and in the overall position of ARM.
In particular, environments which are considered low this authority will be exercised only if the In 2014, ARM continued to strive for risk from a health and safety perspective.
directors believe that it is in the best interests environmental accreditation in its new build However, the safety and welfare of of shareholders generally and will increase projects.
Two significant projects, scheduled employees, contractors and visitors is a earnings per share.
for completion in 2015 and 2016, have had priority in all Group workplaces worldwide.
environmental performance incorporated The Group continues to improve its Business model into the design briefs and will achieve either management systems in this area with an A detailed description of ARMs business Leadership in Energy and Environmental audit programme that includes external model is set out on pages 20 to 21 of the Design LEED Accreditation or the auditing of processes and offices.
equivalent Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology More detail about the Groups approach to BREEAM.
These building standards ensure environmental matters and health and safety high environmental performance of the is included in the CR report.
By order of the Board Groups built environment throughout its Patricia Alsop entire lifecycle.
Articles of Association Company Secretary ARMs Articles of Association may be amended only by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 29 Directors report Additional statutory information The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012.
Description of operations, principal activities Future developments Dividends and review of business The Groups stated objective is to The directors recommend payment of establish a global standard for its RISC The principal operations and activities of the a final dividend in respect of the year to architecture, physical IP and other products Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, 31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share in the embedded microprocessor and marketing, research and development of which, subject to approval at the AGM on semiconductor markets.
The directors RISC-based microprocessors, graphics and 30 April 2015, will be paid on 15 May 2015 believe that, in order to achieve this goal, it is video processors, display technology, physical to shareholders on the register on 24 April important to expand the number and range IP and associated systems IP, software and 2015.
This final dividend, combined with the of potential customers for its technology.
The nature of the global semiconductor interim dividend of 2.52 pence per share paid industry is such that most of the Groups in October 2014, makes a total of 7.02 pence The Group intends to enter into licence business originates overseas and, to serve per share for the year, an increase of 23% on agreements with new customers and to its customers better, the Group has sales the total dividend of 5.7 pence per share for increase the range of new technology offices around the world.
The total cost of dividends paid or to be supplied to existing customers.
offices in the US, three in PR China and three paid in respect of the year to 31 December Relationships will continue to be established in the rest of Asia.
The Group has design 2014 is approximately 99 million.
with third-party tools and software vendors offices worldwide with the larger engineering to ensure that their products will operate operations based in Cambridge, UK, San Share buyback programme with the Groups products.
As a result of its Jose and Austin, USA, and Bangalore, India.
The Group bought back 7,852,543 shares position in the semiconductor industry, the A full list of the Groups offices is included on with a nominal value of 0.05 pence per share Group is presented with many opportunities page 129. during 2014 at an average cost of 852.2 pence to acquire complementary technology or per share.
This represents 0.6% of the issued resources and it intends to continue to make More information about the business, its share capital of the Group.
These shares are appropriate investments and acquisitions operations and key performance indicators held in treasury and will be used to satisfy from time to time.
is set out in the Strategic Report in the Our equity awards to employees.
The purpose marketplace section on pages 16 to 19, the of the share buyback programme is to Going concern Our business model section on pages 20 offset dilution and maintain the issued share After dividend payments of 86.1 million the to 21, the Strategy and key performance capital at a broadly constant level.
No shares highly cash generative nature of the business indicators section on pages 22 to 30, the have been re-purchased to date in 2015. enabled the Group to increase its cash, cash Financial Strategy section, on pages 52 to The rolling authority to buy back shares equivalents and deposits to 861.7 million 57, the Risk management section on pages given by the shareholders at the AGM in May net of accrued interest of 4.6 million at 31 to 37, and the Corporate Responsibility 2014 remains in place and a resolution to the end of 2014.
This was an increase from summary on pages 43 to 45.
The Groups authorise the directors to make purchases in 706.3 million net of accrued interest statement on corporate governance can be appropriate circumstances will be proposed of 7.2 million at the start of the year.
found in the Corporate Governance report at the 2015 AGM.
After reviewing the 2015 budget and longeron pages 8 to 28 of this Governance and term plans and considering any reasonably Financial Report.
The Risk management likely scenarios that may occur, the directors section and the Corporate Governance are satisfied that, at the time of approving report form part of this section and are the financial statements, it is appropriate to incorporated into it by cross-reference.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of both the Group and the parent Company.
This view was supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress tests undertaken at the year-end which showed that some extreme assumptions would have to be made before there is a negative impact.
30 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Directors report continued... Research and development R&D Donations Global Green House Gas Emissions Development of IP is at the heart of the The directors decided that an increase in Our report covers emissions within Groups activities and 72% of the Groups charitable giving was appropriate during 2014 operations that fall under the Groups workforce is employed in engineering and the Group made donations as follows: financial control.
As such data used activities.
Within this, R&D is of major represents our global operations with 2014 2013 importance and, as part of its research regional conversion factors applied 000 000 activities, the Group collaborates closely as required.
Promotion of education 916 362 with universities worldwide and plans to Other 153 106 continue its successful engagement with Our emission factors are from Defra DECC Medical research 69 62 Michigan University.
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Local charities 93 68 Reporting.
Our environmental impact Environmental 102 90 Key areas of product development for 2015 assessment of ARMs operations includes Total 1,333 688 include the development of further energyenergy use and air travel as our material efficient, high-performance processors, such CO e contributors.
We have excluded 2 as ARM cores based on symmetric multicore ARMs investment of 2.5 million in an non-material emissions related to refrigerant and superscalar technology.
interest-free charitable bond in Future losses in air conditioning systems, motor cars Business, made in 2010, remains in place.
Future Business is a Cambridge-based social The Group is investing in future physical enterprise, which provides business advice, IP development including low-power, The increase in our carbon emissions coaching and affordable workspace to low-leakage technologies for a range of intensity in 2014 is due to growth in employee entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities chip manufacturing processes, to ensure numbers from 2,833 at the start of the and voluntary organisations.
In addition, the year to 3,294 people at the year-end, with Group will continue to develop and deliver a corresponding increase in the size of our ARM employees are encouraged to offer tools, graphics processors and system global estate.
their time and expertise to help charities and IP to enable its customers to design and other groups in need.
The Group operates programme SoCs.
Further detail on our emissions and the a Matching Gift Donation programme Groups management of those emissions for individual employees fundraising The Group incurred R&D expenses of can be found in our Carbon Disclosure efforts.
The Group does not make any 224.2 million in 2014, representing 28% Project Submissions.
of revenues, compared with 202.9 million Reported Emissions 2014 2013 in 2013, representing 28% of revenues.
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions R&D expenses have been charged in More details of the Groups charitable work Combustion of Fuel, Operation of full to the income statement since the and fundraising activities can be found in the Facilities and Electricity and Cooling requirements for capitalisation were not Corporate Responsibility report available Purchased tonnes CO e 13,741 11,067 2 met.
The requirements for capitalisation are on the Groups website at www.
com CO2e Intensity tonnes CO2e per considered in more detail in note 1 to the reporting2014.
Scope 3 Emissions Business Travel tonnes CO e 11,642 10,186 2 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 31 Directors in the year Election and re-election of directors Share capital The following served as directors of John Liu joined the Board on 1 December At 31 December 2014, ARMs share the Company during the year ended 2014 as an independent non-executive capital comprised a single class of ordinary 31 December 2014: director and will be standing for election at shares of 0.05 pence each and there were the 2015 AGM.
All of the other directors 1,412,160,836 ordinary shares in issue, of Stuart Chambers Chairman from 1 March will be standing for re-election at the 2015 which 7,852,543 were held in treasury 2014 appointed 27 January 2014 AGM.
In line with the provisions of the UK 2013: no shares held in treasury.
The rights Corporate Governance Code September attached to treasury shares are restricted Simon Segars Chief Executive Officer 2012, all directors will present themselves in accordance with the Companies Act.
for re-election annually if eligible unless the The rights attached to ordinary shares are Tim Score Chief Financial Officer directors have agreed otherwise.
as follows: Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer See pages 6 to 7 for the biographies of the 1.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, Andy Green independent nondirectors at the date of this report.
every shareholder present in person or, executive director in the case of a corporation, present at the Larry Hirst CBE independent nonmeeting by way of a representative and The interests of the directors in the executive director entitled to vote shall have one vote and Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all every proxy present who has been duly John Liu independent non-executive of which were beneficially held, are disclosed appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote director appointed 1 December 2014 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
on the resolution shall have one vote.
Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent The directors have the benefit of directors Director and financial expert and officers liability insurance.
On a poll, every shareholder present in person or in the case of a corporation, Janice Roberts independent nonAppointment of directors present at the meeting by way of a executive director representative or by proxy and entitled to ARM shareholders may by ordinary Sir John Buchanan former Chairman vote shall have one vote for every ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a retired 1 May 2014 share held.
ARM must have not less than two Philip Rowley former independent nonand no more than 16 directors holding office 3.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend executive director and financial expert at all times.
ARM may by ordinary resolution where declared or paid out of profits retired 1 May 2014 from time to time vary the minimum and or available for such purposes.
Eric Meurice independent non-executive director retired 31 March 2014 4.
Shareholders are entitled to participate in a The directors may appoint a director to ll return of capital on a winding-up.
a casual vacancy or as an additional director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall The notice of the AGM species deadlines for then be eligible for election.
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARMs website after the meeting.
32 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Directors report continued...
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Qualifying indemnity provision would be assessed and the Group would, ordinary shares in ARM other than: where possible, seek to offer alternative Article 139 of the Companys Articles of employment to them if they were no longer Association provides for the indemnification restrictions that may from time to time able to continue in their current role.
of directors of the Company against liability be imposed by laws and regulations for incurred by them in certain situations, and is example, those relating to market abuse Employee involvement a qualifying indemnity provision within the and insider dealing : meaning of section 236 of the Companies To help reach the best decision, and one that Act 2006. all employees can support, it is important restrictions that may be imposed pursuant that we include the views of those outside to the Listing Rules of the Financial The qualifying indemnity was in force during of the management team in the decisionServices Authority under which certain the financial year and up to the date of signing making process.
To this end, internal employees of ARM require the approval the Annual Report.
conferences and communications meetings of the Company to deal in shares: involving employees from all parts of the restrictions on the transfer of shares that Group in discussions on future strategy Change of control may be imposed under article 61.2 of and developments are held regularly.
All of ARMs equity-based plans contain ARMs Articles of Association or under Furthermore, employee share ownership provisions relating to a change of control.
Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in is encouraged and all employees are able Outstanding awards and options would either case following a failure to supply to participate in one of the Groups share normally vest and become exercisable on a information required to be disclosed ownership schemes.
It does not presently change of control, subject to the satisfaction following service of a request under operate any collective agreements with any of any performance conditions at that time.
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: trade unions.
restrictions on transfer of shares held There are no significant agreements to which Information about the Groups employees under certain of the Companys employee ARM is a party that take effect, alter or and policies are contained in the Our share plans while they remain subject to terminate upon a change of control.
people section of the Strategic Report.
Information about environmental matters, Diversity and equal opportunities social and community policies and their Substantial shareholdings The Group has a strong demand for highly effectiveness is contained in the Corporate The directors are aware of the following qualied staff.
It is proud of its diverse Responsibility section of the Strategic Report substantial interests in the issued share capital workforce which is made up of people of and in the full Corporate Responsibility of the Company as at 16 February 2015: all ages from cultures and countries around report available on our website.
The Group is committed to Percentage of issued promoting and ensuring equal treatment.
Financial instruments ordinary share capital No worker potential or existing, client or BlackRock, Inc 5.07 The Groups financial risk management and customer will be discriminated against on Baillie Gifford & Co 5.01 policies and exposure to risks in relation to grounds of their gender, sexual orientation, Thornburg Investment financial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
marital or civil partner status, gender Management 5.01 reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic Fidelity Management and Essential contracts or national origin, religion or belief, disability Research Corporation 4.92 or age.
There are no parties with whom the Group Janus Capital Management LLC 4.00 has contractual or other arrangements that Disability is not seen to be an inhibitor are essential to the business of the Group.
Save for the above, the Company has not to employment or career development.
been notied, as at 16 February 2015, of any Appropriate arrangements are made for the No company accounted for more than material interest of 3% or more or any noncontinued employment and training, career 10% of Group revenues in 2014 2013: one material interest exceeding 10% of the issued development and promotion of disabled company accounted for 12%.
share capital of the Company.
persons employed by the Group.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 33 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Group for that period.
In preparing Each of the directors, whose names and these financial statements, the directors are functions are listed in the biographies on The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, required to: pages 6 to 7, confirm that to the best of Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 30 April 2015 their knowledge: at 2.00pm.
A presentation will be made at select suitable accounting policies and then this meeting outlining recent developments apply them consistently: the Group financial statements, which in the business.
All voting at the meeting have been prepared in accordance with will be conducted on a poll where every make judgements and accounting IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true shareholder present in person or by proxy estimates that are reasonable and fair view of the assets, liabilities, will have one vote for each share of which and prudent: financial position and profit of the Group: they are the owner.
The Group will convey state whether IFRSs as adopted by the results of the poll on the website after this Directors report on pages 29 to the European Union and applicable the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to submit 33, and the Financial strategy section on UK Accounting Standards have been written questions in advance of the meeting.
pages 52 to 57 and the Risk management followed, subject to any material Questions should be sent to The Company sections on pages 31 to 37 of the Strategic departures disclosed and explained in Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Report include a fair review of the the Group and parent Company financial Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
development and performance of the statements respectively: business and the position of the Group, A resolution to reappoint prepare the financial statements on together with a description of the principal  LLP as auditors the going concern basis unless it is risks and uncertainties that it faces.
to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
inappropriate to presume that the Details of other resolutions to be proposed Company will continue in business.
Disclosure of information to auditors at the meeting are set out in the Circular and In the case of each director in office at the The directors are responsible for keeping Notice of AGM 2015, which will be made date the Directors report is approved, that: adequate accounting records that are available to all shareholders together with a sufficient to show and explain the Companys proxy card.
a so far as the director is aware, there is transactions and disclose with reasonable no relevant audit information of which the accuracy at any time the financial position Statement of directors responsibilities Companys auditors are unaware: and of the Company and the Group and enable The directors are responsible for preparing them to ensure that the financial statements the Annual Report, the Directors b the director has taken all the steps that and the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report, and the financial he or she ought to have taken as a director comply with the Companies Act 2006 statements in accordance with applicable law in order to make themselves aware of any and, with regards to the Group financial and regulations.
relevant audit information and to establish statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
that the Companys auditors are aware of They are also responsible for safeguarding Company law requires the directors to that information.
the assets of the Company and the Group prepare financial statements for each financial and hence for taking reasonable steps for year.
Under that law the directors have the prevention and detection of fraud and prepared the Group financial statements other irregularities.
in accordance with International Financial By order of the Board Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted The directors are responsible for the Patricia Alsop by the European Union, and the parent maintenance and integrity of the Annual Company Secretary Company financial statements in accordance Report included on the Groups website in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted ARM Holdings plc accordance with the UK legislation governing Accounting Practice United Kingdom Company Number: 2548782 the preparation and dissemination of financial Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Legislation in the UK governing Under company law the directors must the preparation and dissemination of financial not approve the financial statements unless statements may differ from legislation in they are satisfied that they give a true and other jurisdictions.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of the profit or loss 34 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder Having taken over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2014, I am pleased to present you with ARMs Directors Remuneration Report for 2014.
We very much value shareholders comments on and long-standing support for our remuneration strategy.
This was demonstrated again at the 2014 AGM where resolutions to approve our Remuneration Policy and the Implementation report each received more than 97% of votes cast in favour.
The full details are set out in the statement of voting on page 52.
We are aware of shareholders preference that companies should not make frequent changes to Larry Hirst policy and we will propose changes only if we believe that they Chairman of the Remuneration Committee would lead to better alignment between pay, strategy and longterm business performance.
No changes are proposed for 2015 and if any changes are proposed for 2016, we will consult with shareholders in the second half of 2015.
The Committee seeks to ensure that a consistent policy on pay applies across the Group and takes account of pay and benets applicable to employees below executive director level.
In line with our long-standing commitment to ethical values our aim is to ensure that remuneration policies and practices drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 35 Group performance in 2014 New Chief Financial Officers package There were no other areas where the Committee exercised discretion in 2014 or to Notwithstanding the tough global market The Committee also approved a pay and date in 2015. conditions that continued during 2014, we benets package for Chris Kennedy on out-performed our international peer group his appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
Remuneration principles of technology companies over the last three The salary at appointment is 475,000 and years, which resulted in 93.1% vesting of the the ongoing package will be in line with our The key focus of remuneration at ARM is LTIP awards made in 2012 when the share Remuneration Policy.
Salaries, bonuses price was 568 pence per share and full vesting cash and share award will be made in line with and benets are set at competitive levels of the DAB Plan matching share awards share benets foregone from his previous overall with the main emphasis on long-term, made in respect of 2011.
Bonuses earned by employer on exit, which is within the clear performance-driven share-based reward.
executive directors in respect of performance boundaries set by our Remuneration Policy.
In particular: in 2014 were in the range of 49.6 to 54.5% The Committee believes that this is the of salary.
appropriate package given the skills and A significant proportion i. e. more than experience of the person appointed and 70% of total potential remuneration is Key activities of the Committee in 2014 the nature of the role.
Details are set out on performance-related: and2015 page 39.
Salaries, bonuses and benets are Chief Executive Officers salary appropriately competitive but are Other activities included: In line with good practice for internal generally no higher than market median: approval of a base pay increase for the promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as The largest element in the remuneration executive directors of 3.00% for 2014 and Chief Executive Officer in July 2013 initially on package is the long-term incentive.
3.00% for the CTO for 2015 compared a below-market salary, which was increased This offers the possibility for executives to to the weighted average increases for the by 3% in January 2014.
During the year, the earn significant sums when performance is workforce as a whole of 4.35% for 2014 Committee reviewed his salary and overall above the target range and the share price and 4.78% for 2015: package against practice in UK companies of appreciates.
However, if performance is similar size and complexity with reference approval in principle of pro-rated vesting below the target range, no shares will vest.
to revenue and market capitalisation.
under the LTIP and Deferred Annual 50% of the shares that do vest after three The Committee also took into account Bonus DAB Plan for Chief Financial years are subject to further deferral: Simon Segars strong performance in the Officer Tim Score on his retirement from role since his appointment and concluded Annual bonus is driven primarily by the Group in 2015.
These payments are that his salary should be aligned with the financial performance.
Bonus payments in line with our Remuneration Policy external market.
This review concluded that are impacted by strategic goals and on the basis that he meets the good an increase of 11.65% from 515,000 for individual objectives.
No payments leaver criteria under the plans.
No other 2014 to 575,000 for 2015 was appropriate are made if financial performance is payments are being made in connection given his capability and performance and the below threshold: with his retirement: scale and complexity of the Group.
The new Our shareholding requirements 200% review of individual directors and Group salary is within our Remuneration Policy of salary for executive directors and performance against bonus targets and is consistent with ARMs philosophy executive committee members help to for 2014: of setting salaries, bonuses and benets at maintain commitment over the long-term appropriately competitive levels, with the setting of performance targets for the and ensure the interests of our senior main emphasis on long-term, performancebonus plan for 2015: management team are aligned with those driven share-based rewards.
reviewing of performance targets for of shareholders.
Details of directors the LTIP awards in 2015, which will be holdings are set out on page 49.
It is anticipated that future increases for the unchanged for those used in 2014: Chief Executive Officer will be more closely appointment of Mercer in 2014 as aligned with those applicable to employees independent remuneration consultants generally and will, as usual, be subject to to advise both the Committee and continued high performance from both the the Group following a review of individual and the Group.
36 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Directors Remuneration Report continued... Other key principles are: Dilution Contents of the Remuneration report We believe it is important for us to continue Annual report on remuneration Benchmarking provides a useful reference to have exibility to make awards above the Implementation report 37 point but not a target range for salaries, level of 5% over ten years.
We make share incentives or other benets.
awards to all of our employees and also we Single gure remuneration table 37 need to be able to compete worldwide to Remuneration packages should be as attract and retain the high-calibre engineers New Chief Financial Officer package 39 simple as possible, given the scale and and executives we require.
Dilution over the complexity of the business and the past five years has been 4.58%.
Remuneration details 40 requirements of investors.
For this reason, generally only two incentive plans are in We continue to take an active interest in Chairman and non-executive directors operation for executive directors an investors views on remuneration policy, remuneration 48 Annual Bonus which is payable in cash and which we were able to discuss directly with awards under the LTIP which are payable many shareholders through the consultation Remuneration Committee composition in shares.
undertaken in 2013 in connection with the and activities in 2014 51 The Groups strategy and business new LTIP and in early 2014 over the EPS objectives are the primary considerations targets applicable to the new LTIP.
Remuneration Policy as approved by when selecting appropriate performance shareholders at the 2014 AGM 54 measures for our incentive plans.
Building on the new reporting structure implemented last year in line with the Finally, ARM is a people business that remuneration disclosure regulations, the rest depends on being able to attract, develop and of this report comprises two sections: retain top quality talent.
The Remuneration Committee takes an active interest in the Relative importance of elements of total remuneration in 2014 Firstly an Implementation report level and structure of pay and conditions explaining remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the Group, including how they for the directors as they operated in compare to those of the executive directors.
Long-term 66% 2014 and explaining the linkage between share scheme It has always been part of ARMs ethos and is Fixed remuneration 24% Group performance and remuneration.
essential to our culture of collaboration and including pension This report will be subject to an advisory innovation to include all of our employees in 10% Annual bonus shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
Secondly for information our Remuneration Policy, which was overwhelmingly supported by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and to which no changes are proposed for 2015.
We look forward to receiving your continued support at the AGM on 30 April 2015.
Larry Hirst Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 37 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report We set out below how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during 2014 and how we plan to implement it in 2015.
Explanation of single gure remuneration: The single gure of remuneration table provides details of pay and benets earned by a director in respect of the particular calendar year.
Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
For the first half of 2013, Simon Segars salary was 300,000.
Following his appointment as CEO on 1 July 2013 his salary increased to 500,000, resulting in an average for the year of 400,000.
From 1 January 2014 his salary was increased by 3% from 500,000 to 515,000.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benets in kind.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit and Mike Muller receives car and fuel allowance.
Simon Segars received 143,332 2013: 61,283 for living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the US.
The bonuses earned during 2014 were paid in cash in February 2015.
The 2013 bonus was awarded under the former Deferred Annual Bonus DAB Plan which operated for the last time in respect of performance in 2013 and 50% was deferred and will become payable in shares after three years.
Details of the awards made in February 2014 in respect of these deferrals are set out on page 43.
The money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year are the amounts received by directors on the vesting of shares in February 2015.
These shares were awarded in February 2012 under two schemes: the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the matching element of the former DAB Plan.
The amounts received are included in the single gure of remuneration for 2014 since the performance period for these schemes both concluded in 2014.
Share prices applicable to grant and vesting of share awards: February 2012 568.0 pence February 2013 924.5 pence February 2014 896.0 pence February 2015 1,087.0 pence 38 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued... Remuneration summary: From 2014 remuneration for executive directors comprises three principal elements: Structure of executive directors remuneration % of salary 600 500 400 300 200 100 % Former New Base salary Cash bonus Potential DAB Potential DAB match LTIP Base salary: to provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary in order to enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the Groups business strategy and goal of sustained growth in corporate performance.
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
Annual bonus: maximum of 125% of base salary, paid in cash with the goal of incentivising executive directors to achieve profit and revenue targets that each account for 50% of target bonus.
These targets are directly linked to the Groups short-term financial and strategic goals and are regarded as the best drivers to increase market share and continue the Groups outperformance of semiconductor market growth.
85% of base salary is payable at target.
Bonus is subject to an individual performance multiplier, which exes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
LTIP: annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for vesting of between 0% and 200% of that amount after three years dependent on achievement of performance conditions.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
The performance measures and rationale for choosing them are described in more detail on page 44.
There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further 25% of the vested shares.
During these holding periods, shares may not normally be sold even if the participant has left the Group.
Full details of our Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 54 to 60.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 39 Base salary increases for 2014 and 2015 Executive directors annual base salaries were increased as follows: From 1 January % increase From 1 January % increase 2014 2013-2014 2015 2014-2015 Simon Segars 515,000 3% 575,000 11.65% Tim Score 427,450 3% 427,450 0.00% Mike Muller 293,550 3% 302,360 3.00% For 2014, the average increase in base salaries for the executive directors was 3.00% and the average increase for the workforce as a whole was 4.35%.
For 2015 the weighted average increase is 5.57% for the executive directors and 4.78% for the workforce as a whole.
The reason for the higher increase for the executive directors is the larger than average increase for Simon Segars.
In line with good practice for internal promotions, Simon Segars was initially appointed as Chief Executive Officer on a below-market salary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed his salary and overall package against practice in UK companies of similar size and complexity including revenue and market capitalisation.
The Committee also took into account Simon Segars strong performance in the role since his appointment in July 2013 and concluded that his salary should be aligned with the external market.
This review concluded that an increase of 11.65% from 515,000 for 2014 to 575,000 for 2015 was appropriate given the capability and performance of the individual and the scale and complexity of the Group.
The new salary is consistent with ARMs philosophy of setting salaries, bonuses and benets at competitive levels, with the main emphasis on long-term, performance-driven share-based rewards.
It is anticipated that future increases for the Chief Executive Officer will be more closely aligned with those applicable to employees generally and will, as usual, be subject to continued high performance from both the individual and the Group.
Across the Group, the increase for 2015 is in a range of 3.84% for the US rising to 9.03% in Asia, reflecting local market conditions and salary inflation.
New Chief Financial Officer package The appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer designate was announced on 8 January 2015.
He will join the Board as a director and Chief Financial Officer once he has completed his current commitments.
The key elements of the package, which are in line with our Remuneration Policy are: Salary 475,000: Bonus maximum 125% of salary, to be pro-rated for actual service in 2015, subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors and an individual performance multiplier: One-off cash award a payment of 950,000 less payroll taxes will be made in January 2016 to compensate for part of the equity benets foregone in his previous role and will be subject to clawback in the event of resignation or termination for cause in the following 12 months: RSU award a grant of restricted stock units to compensate for the remainder of equity benets foregone in his previous role with a value of up to 950,000 the number of restricted stock units to be based on the share price at the date of grant : LTIP award an award in line with Policy, to be pro-rated for actual service in 2015, based on the closing share price on the day prior to award and subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors as set out in the Remuneration policy on page 54: Pension an employers contribution of 10% of salary.
40 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued...
Annual bonus plan for 2014 For 2014 onwards, bonuses are paid wholly in cash.
Target bonus is 85% and maximum bonus is 125% of base salary after application of an individual performance multiplier.
Individual performance conditions linked to business strategy are specic to each executive director and are set annually.
These ex the amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
The Committee reviews the extent of achievement of specic individual performance conditions in arriving at the individual performance multiplier.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any financial year to reect intervening events including acquisitions or disposals.
No such discretion was exercised in 2014.
Key Performance Indicators and linkage to bonus targets Key Increase market penetration Revenue Increase value per smart device Grow ARMs business by winning Generate revenues from complementary technology market share, attracting new Investing in long-term growth customers and entering new markets Normalised Operating profit Generate increased returns for shareholders The Groups strategy, key performance indicators and progress towards achieving them are described in more detail in the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 30.
The adoption of revenue and normalised operating profit as performance measures for the bonus targets demonstrates alignment of executive reward with our strategic goals.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 41 2014 Bonus targets and achievement The targets that applied to the 2014 bonus and the achievement against those targets were: Audited : Threshold Budget Target Achievement Bonus % achieved Normalised Operating profit 332.6m 421.2m 449.6m 425.6m 28.86% Group Revenue US$1,117.8m US$1,279.2m US$1,354.2m US$1,292.6m 29.46% Bonus % of Target 0% 50% 100% 58.32% Bonus % of salary 0% 42.5% 85% 49.57% NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.55 for 2014.
General For each element, bonus pays out linearly between the threshold and the budget and between the budget and the target.
Above target, bonus continues to pay out linearly.
Over-achievement of either the profit or revenue targets can compensate for a shortfall in the other subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
Annual bonus payment for 2014 The executive directors received the following bonus payments in respect of the performance of the Group in 2014 audited : Salary Bonus % Individual Total bonus Percentage Bonus paid Director achieved multiplier % of salary % Simon Segars 515,000 58.32 1.10 64.15 54.53 280,826 Tim Score 427,450 58.32 1.00 58.32 49.57 211,896 Mike Muller 293,550 58.32 1.00 58.32 49.57 145,519 In addition to his annual bonus, Mike Muller received a 500 bonus for ling a patent.
Annual bonus for 2014 achievement of individual performance measures It should be noted that, when applied to the executive directors, the individual performance multiplier normally falls within a relatively narrow range at the upper end.
This results from the fact that maintaining a very high level of performance is a pre-requisite to continuation in the role of executive director.
Performance is reviewed in-depth on at least an annual basis by the Chief Executive Officer for the other executive directors and by the Chairman for the Chief Executive Officer.
These assessments are then reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
Forperformance in 2014, the individual performance conditions included objectives related to the following areas: Simon Segars Succession planning and key appointments Executive team effectiveness Progress in development of strategy Tim Score Organisational scaling Investment strategy Mike Muller IoT business strategy Investment strategy to complement R&D activities University programme The individual multipliers approved by the Committee are shown in the table above.
42 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued...
Bonus history 2010-2014 Annual bonus for 2015 Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB Plan The bonus targets set by the Committee Bonus in respect of 2015 will be paid entirely for each year are intended to be stretching in cash.
Each year the Committee considers Under the former DAB Plan, which operated but motivational.
The average bonus paid the most appropriate metrics to apply for the last time in relation to 2013, 50% to the executive directors over the past five for the following financial year.
Growth in of bonus was compulsorily deferred into years was 119% of salary with a range from revenue and profit are regarded as the most shares, which do not vest for three years.
52% payout for 2014 to 150% for 2011 as appropriate drivers to increase market share For the remaining awards, the last of which shown below: and continue the Groups outperformance will vest in February 2017, at normalised of semiconductor market growth.
They are EPS growth equal to the increase in the the focus of our quarterly reporting to Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 4% per shareholders and to the market.
The bonus annum, the deferred shares will be matched structure for 2015 will be in line with that on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when normalised described above for 2014.
The numerical EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per financial targets and individual performance annum.
The deferred shares can be forfeited conditions will be specic to 2015 and will be in the event of gross misconduct and the disclosed retrospectively in the 2015 Annual matching shares are subject to forfeiture for Report.
The Committee is of the opinion bad leavers.
that the numerical values of targets for the Annual Bonus Plan are commercially sensitive because they include budgeted numbers within the range of outcomes and it would be detrimental to the Group to disclose them in advance of, or during, the relevant performance period.
The actual targets are disclosed retrospectively in the following financial year.
Average percentage bonus paid over the past five years to executive directors 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Notes: 1.
For 2010, maximum bonus was limited to 125% of base salary.
For 2011, 2012 and 2013, maximum bonus was 150% of base salary.
For 2014 onwards, maximum bonus is 125% of base salary.
% of base salary Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 43 Former DAB Plan vesting in 2014 audited Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2010 and awarded in 2011 vested on 8 February 2014, with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned.
This ratio was achieved because normalised EPS growth before ination was 120%, which is greater than CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
The amounts are shown below: Shares deferred as part of 2010 Matching bonus awarded in Matching shares Dividend Total 2011 shares value shares award Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 26,391 52,782 472,927 456 79,629 Tim Score 37,847 75,694 678,218 654 114,195 Mike Muller 26,084 52,168 467,425 451 78,703 Total  The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 896.0 pence based on the closing market price the previous day.
Former DAB Plan vesting in 2015 audited Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2011 and awarded in 2012 vested on 12 February 2015, with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned.
This ratio was achieved because normalised EPS growth before ination was 92.8%, which is greater than CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
The amounts are shown below: Shares deferred as part of 2011 Matching bonus awarded in Matching shares Dividend Total 2012 shares Value shares award Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 35,387 70,774 769,314 661 106,822 Tim Score 50,572 101,144 1,099,435 945 152,661 Mike Muller 34,991 69,982 760,704 654 105,627 Total  The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 1,087 pence based on the closing market price on the previous day.
The total number of deferred shares held under the former DAB Plan by the executive directors is: Shares Shares deferred deferred as part of as part of the 2012 bonus the 2013 bonus Total Director Number Number Number Simon Segars 20,045 30,327 50,372 Tim Score 28,637 33,447 62,084 Mike Muller 18,900 22,501 41,401 Total 67,58286,275153,857 44 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued... LTIP vesting in 2015 audited The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2012 were satisfied in respect of the performance period ended 31 December 2014 to the extent of 93.1% plus dividend shares which vested on 12 February 2015, as follows: Market value Conditional award Vested award Dividend shares Total award at vesting Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 49,295 45,893 859 46,752 508,194 Tim Score 70,422 65,562 1,227 66,789 725,997 Mike Muller 48,415 45,074 843 45,917 499,118 Total  The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 1,087 pence based on the closing market price on the previous day.
The amount vested above is based on the total shareholder return calculated by using the average share price from 1 January to 31 March at the commencement of the performance period and the average share price from 1 October to 31 December at the end of the performance period, as shown below: ARM TSR Comparator Group percentile rank Vesting multiplier FTSE 350 Index 59.1% 84.1% FTSE All World Technology Index 63.9% 102.1% Overall 93.1% The assessment of ARMs TSR percentile rank is independently veried by Kepler Associates.
The amounts earned by each executive director are included in the money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year in the single gure remuneration table on page 37.
The awards received by the executive directors in February 2015 are as follows: Market value of Market value of DAB matching LTIP at vesting shares at vesting Total received Director Simon Segars 508,194 769,314 1,277,508 Tim Score 725,997 1,099,435 1,825,432 Mike Muller 499,118 760,704 1,259,822 Total 1,733,309 2,629,453 4,362,762 LTIP performance measures for 2014 and 2015 Performance measures for the LTIP were selected after careful consideration by the Committee, following consultation with larger shareholders.
The Committee believes that the use of both TSR and EPS performance measures provide the best alignment to the Groups long-term financial and strategic goals and encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 45 The EPS range was set for awards made in 2014 and, following review in December 2014, the Committee has decided that it should continue unchanged for 2015.
The Committee will review, applicability of performance conditions on an annual basis, so that in the event that exceptional circumstances arise, such as material corporate activity or substantial changes in market conditions, their impact can be considered against subsequent annual awards.
If changes are to be proposed for any prospective LTIP award, it would be the Committees intention to confirm any such change to shareholders in advance.
Analysts targets are acknowledged as important reference points for the markets, but there are a number of factors beyond the control of the Group and the executive directors that may impact mediumto long-term EPS performance such as macro or semiconductor industry cycles and currency uctuations.
These may have impacts that would not necessarily be seen as underperformance by the Group.
The Committee is also keen not to encourage short-term views or behaviour where, in theory, investment in the long-term future either organically or by acquisition may be discouraged if the EPS range is set at too high a level.
Summary of share awards under the LTIP and DAB Details of conditional awards made in the year to 31 December 2014 under the LTIP and deferred shares granted under the DAB Plan in the year to 31 December 2014 to the directors are as follows audited : Share price at Vesting % vesting at Type of Basis of Date of Number of award date date Face value threshold Director award award award shares Simon Segars LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 107,770 8.96 8 February 2017 1,931,238 50% Simon Segars DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 30,327 8.96 8 February 2017 543,460 100% Tim Score LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 89,449 8.96 8 February 2017 1,602,926 50% Tim Score DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 33,447 8.96 8 February 2017 599,370 100% Mike Muller LTIP 187.5% of salary 8 February 2014 61,429 8.96 8 February 2017 1,100,808 50% Mike Muller DAB 50% of bonus paid in respect of 2013 8 February 2014 22,501 8.96 8 February 2017 403,218 100% Face value represents the amount receivable under the award based on the maximum number of shares receivable under the LTIP and the maximum number of matching shares under the DAB Plan at the mid-market closing price on the business day prior to grant.
T hreshold for the LTIP is 50% vest when certain TSR-related criteria are met.
All DAB shares will vest after three years.
Additional matching shares may be granted depending on EPS growth see page 42 for details.
There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further 25% of the vested shares under the LTIP.
Share price at award date is based on the closing market price on the previous day.
TSR and EPS performance measures TSR FTSE 350 TSR FTSE All World Technology EPS EPS: 25% of this element vests at threshold TSR FTSE 350 : three-year TSR growth TSR FTSE All World Technology Index : and 100% at the upper performance target relative to the FTSE 350: 25% of this element 25% of this element vests at median and straight-line in between.
Threshold is vests at median and 100% vests at upper 100% vests at upper quintile straight-line three years EPS growth of 15% per annum quintile straight-line in between in between including CPI and the upper performance target is three years EPS growth of 22% per annum including CPI 46 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued... LTIP awards for 2015 The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 12 February 2015: Conditional award Director Number Simon Segars 99,183 Tim Score Mike Muller 52,115 The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 11 February 2015, being the business day prior to the date of these conditional awards, was 1,087 pence.
Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys TSR together with the TSRs for the FTSE All-World Technology Index and the FTSE 350 from 31 December 2008 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was 1112% over this period compared with 96% for the FTSE All-World Technology Index for the same period.
The Committee considers the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies that use ARM technology in their end products.
The CEOs total single gure for 2013 represents the pay, benets and pension received by Warren East for the first half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plan.
This gure also includes the pay, benets, bonus and pension received by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received by him under the LTIP and DAB Plan in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2013.
The percentages of maximum awards and vesting achieved in 2013 are those received by Simon Segars.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary, or 11% in the case of the Chief Executive Officer plus, if applicable, additional amounts in accordance with the Groups salary sacrifice scheme.
Full details of Group contributions are set out in the directors emoluments table later in this report.
Since 2011, to the extent that contributions cannot be made in a tax-efficient way at the 10 11% of basic salary level, the difference is paid as an additional cash allowance and subject to appropriate tax and other deductions.
Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash allowance have been fully paid with respect to the year.
Compensation for loss of office audited No payments were made during 2014 to former executive directors by way of compensation for loss of office, or pay in lieu of notice.
Payments to past directors audited No payments were made to past directors during 2014.
Non-executive directors In line with fee arrangements in place in other companies of similar size and complexity, the executive directors implemented the following fee arrangements from 1 January 2014: A standard fee of 60,000 per annum Additional fees for Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director of 16,000 per annum 48 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued... Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration Fees paid to the Chairman and the standard non-executive director fee will remain at the same level in 2015 as for 2014, as will the additional fee paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee Chairmens fee will increase from 16,000 to 20,000 per annum.
This is believed to more fairly reect the workload undertaken by Committee Chairmen.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive directors in respect of 2013 and 2014 and proposed to be paid in 2015 are set out below: Total proposed fee Actual fee 2014 Actual fee 2013 2015 audited audited Director Stuart Chambers appointed 27 January 2014 400,000 338,333 Andy Green 60,000 64,000 55,000 Larry Hirst 80,000 76,000 55,000 John Liu appointed 1 December 2014 60,000 5,000 Janice Roberts 60,000 67,592 61,399 Kathleen ODonovan 96,000 92,000 70,000 Eric Meurice retired 31 March 2014 20,000 27,500 John Buchanan retired 1 May 2014 76,897 390,000 Philip Rowley retired 1 May 2014 20,230 70,000 A one-off additional fee of 4,000 was paid to Andy Green in 2014 for attending ARM Asia Advisory Group meetings to reect the additional time commitment.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings as follows: Janice Roberts $2,500 per meeting, John Liu 2,000 per meeting.
This is to reect their additional time commitment.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements.
Their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benets, and no element of their fees is performance-related.
The potential awards held by the executive directors under the LTIP as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Minimum potential Maximum potential Maximum number of shares number of shares Market value at potential value at receivable receivable date of award date of award Director Date of award Number Number Simon Segars 8 February 2012 98,590 5.68 559,991 8 February 2013 64,898 9.245 599,982 13 August 2013 22,560 8.865 199,994 8 February 2014 215,540 8.96 1,931,238 Total 401,588 3,291,206 Tim Score 8 February 2012 140,844 5.68 799,994 8 February 2013 89,778 9.245 829,998 8 February 2014 178,898 8.96 1,602,926 Total 409,520 3,232,918 Mike Muller 8 February 2012 96,830 5.68 549,994 8 February 2013 61,654 9.245 569,991 8 February 2014 122,858 8.96 1,100,808 Total 281,342 2,220,793 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 49 The potential matching shares on the awards held by the executive directors under the DAB Plan as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Minimum potential Maximum potential Maximum number of shares number of shares Market value at potential value at receivable receivable date of award date of award Director Date of award Number Number Simon Segars 8 February 2012 70,774 5.68 401,996 8 February 2013 40,090 9.245 370,632 8 February 2014 60,654 8.96 543,460 Total 171,518 1,316,088 Tim Score 8 February 2012 101,144 5.68 574,498 8 February 2013 57,274 9.245 529,498 8 February 2014 66,894 8.96 599,370 Total 225,312 1,703,366 Mike Muller 8 February 2012 69,982 5.68 397,498 8 February 2013 37,800 9.245 349,461 8 February 2014 45,002 8.96 403,218 Total 152,784 1,150,177 Directors shareholdings in the Company Audited There is no requirement in the Articles of Association for directors to hold shares in the Company.
There is a requirement for executive directors to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out in the Remuneration Policy on page 54.
All of the executive directors have holdings well in excess of this requirement.
The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence are as follows: Maximum potential Maximum Shares held shares under LTIP potential Shareholding at under DAB at excluding dividend matching shares Shareholding at 31 December 2014 or date Shareholding 31 December shares at 31 under DAB at 31 date of report of retirement if earlier requirement met 2014 December 2014 December 2014 Director Number Number Number Number Number Number Stuart Chambers appointed 27 January 2014 10,000 10,000 N A Simon Segars 630,660 557,222 Yes 85,759 401,588 171,518 Tim Score 799,388 883,080 Yes 112,656 409,520 225,312 Mike Muller 1,305,760 1,425,442 Yes 76,392 281,342 152,784 Andy Green N A Larry Hirst N A John Liu appointed 1 December 2014 N A Kathleen ODonovan N A Janice Roberts N A Sir John Buchanan retired 1 May 2014 N A N A Philip Rowley retired 1 May 2014 N A 40,000 N A Eric Meurice resigned 31 March 2014 N A N A In addition to the interests disclosed above, the executive directors have interests in dividend shares that could be awarded under the former and current LTIPs and the former DAB Plan, the amount of which will depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisfied and on the dividends declared during the performance period.
The maximum potential shares under the LTIP and the matching shares under the DAB plan are subject to performance conditions.
50 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Implementation report continued...
Details of options exercised by directors during the year are as follows Audited : Market price Exercise on date of Gains on Number price exercise exercise Director of shares Tim Score 18,208 0.854 8.48 138,854 No director has any outstanding interest in options at the date of this report.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups equity schemes since the end of the 2014 financial year up to the date of approval of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe and conditional awards under the LTIP.
Share dilution It is proposed that the Group will continue to manage dilution within the context of maintaining award levels within a 10% limit over five years excluding rolled over Artisan options, the limit that has applied since 2003.
We are aware that this is higher than the limit of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary awards and 10% over ten years in respect of all schemes adopted by many UK companies and preferred by many institutional investors.
The reasons for this higher limit, which was approved by shareholders when the former LTIP was introduced, are at least as strong today.
These are: the broad-based nature of our equity plans, under which shares are provided to all employees and are a key part of the Groups employee reward package: and the need to be able to compete with US companies worldwide for the high-calibre engineers and executives required to secure the Groups future success.
The Committee is keenly aware of this issue, and expects to keep well below the 10% upper limit.
Dilution over the past five years has been 4.58%.
The following information is unaudited: Comparison of CEO and employee pay and benets Director CEO Employees Increase, from 2013 to 2014, in: Base Salary 3.0% 4.8% Benets and pension 98.5% 4.0% Bonus -48.3% -41.2% The percentages for the CEO reect the pay and benets for Warren East for the first half of 2013 and for Simon Segars for the second half of 2013.
T he increase in the benets and pension of the CEO in 2014 was due to allowances paid to Simon Segars as a result of his placement in the US compared to 2013 when the CEO benets included allowances for Simon Segars for only the second half of the year from his date of appointment as CEO.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 51 Relative importance of spend on pay m and percentage change 8.2% 350 24.1% 316.4 300 292.5 10.5% 250 22.0% 235.7 224.2 200 202.9 166.3 150 23.6% 28.2% 100 5.7% 99.0 -4.1% 80.1 62.5 60.3 61.1 50 57.8 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Staff pay Dividends Research and Tax to shareholders development costs This graph shows the amount spent over the past three years on the remuneration of all employees including the executive directors compared with the amounts spent on other significant outgoings i. e. distributions to shareholders, investment in research and development and tax.
These were the three most significant outgoings for the Group in the last financial year excluding the exceptional items in 2013.
Staff pay includes salary, bonus, social security costs, pension and healthcare costs and share-based payment charges.
External roles It is the Companys policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and to receive remuneration for their services.
The Board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: Simon Segars became a non-executive director of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. on 3 February 2015.
He received an award of 7,759 RSUs with a market value of $38.66 per share on that date.
This award vests in full on the earlier of the first anniversary of award and the day before the 2016 annual stockholder meeting.
Tim Score became a non-executive director of The British Land Company plc on 20 March 2014 and received shares in the company with a gross cash value of 52,730 up to 31 December 2014.
He was a non-executive director of National Express Group plc until 25 February 2014 and he received remuneration totalling 16,242 up to that date 2013: 60,500 for the full year.
He became a non-executive director of Pearson plc on 1 January 2015.
Mike Muller is a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy Limited and he received fees totalling 49,110 up to 31 December 2014 2013: 40,000.
Remuneration Committee In this section we describe the composition and activities of the Committee during 2014.
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2014: Meetings attended Name of director Position eligible meetings Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director Committee Chairman from 1 January 2014 5 5 Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5 5 Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 5 5 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director retired 1 May 2014 1 1 Outside these meetings there were meetings and video audio conference calls at which the candidates for external remuneration advisers gave presentations and the Committee discussed and agreed the appointment of new advisers, and at which the Committee discussed and agreed the remuneration package for the new Chief Financial Officer.
Given their diverse business experience, the independent non-executive directors who made up the Committee in 2014 offer a balanced view and international expertise in relation to remuneration matters for the Group.
Their biographies appear on pages 6 to 7.
52 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Policy continued... Operation of the Committee The Chief Executive Officer, the EVP People and the VP Reward are normally invited to attend for at least part of each meeting to ensure that the Committee is able to obtain their views on the level of compensation for executive directors and other senior executives.
The Group Chairman also normally attends meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary advises the Committee on corporate governance matters and acts as Secretary to the Committee.
These individuals are not present when their own remuneration is discussed.
External advisers also attend meetings by invitation.
Their advice and recommendations are used as a guide but do not in any way replace the Committees own deliberations and decisions.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the corporate website at www.
The principal items of business dealt with by the Committee during 2014 and early 2015 are described in the Committee Chairmans initial letter.
External advisers The Committee has access to independent professional advice on remuneration matters.
Following a competitive tender process, Mercer was appointed by the Committee in April 2014 in place of Towers Watson and also provides advice to management.
Mercer is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct, which incorporates principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and condentiality.
On the basis of Mercers conrmation of adherence to this Code and the detailed advice they have given since appointment, Committee members are satisfied that their advice is objective and independent.
It is also satisfied that their fees are in line with market practice.
Fees are charged at an hourly rate based on an agreed fee rate and fee quotations are provided in advance for any significant elements of work.
Work undertaken by Mercer for the Committee in 2014 included analysis and advice on the package for the new Chief Financial Officer, review and making recommendations in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report for 2014, analysis of executive benchmarking data and preparation for and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings.
Total fees of 63,000 were paid to Mercer in 2014.
In addition, Mercer provided advice to the People Team on aspects of reward and incentives.
Towers Watson also undertook work for the Committee in early 2014 which included preparation and attendance at a Remuneration Committee meeting, advice on EPS targets for the LTIP, review of the Directors Remuneration Report for 2013, bonus plan documentation and shareholder communications.
Total fees of 40,000 were paid to Towers Watson for advice to the Committee during the year 2013: 52,000.
Towers Watson continue to provide executive benchmarking data for use by the Group not included in the fees.
The Committee also received advice from Kepler Associates who provided independent verication of Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations for the LTIP.
Kepler also provided a valuation model for the LTIP to the Group to assist with the calculation of share compensation charges.
2014 AGM Statement of voting At the 2014 AGM voting was as follows: Remuneration report: 97.49% vote in favour out of a total of 1,108,180,964 votes cast with 2.51% votes against and 5,759,821 votes withheld.
Remuneration Policy: 97.58% vote in favour out of a total of 1,099,892,911 votes cast with 2.42% votes against and 14,047,874 votes withheld.
Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy in the table on pages 54 to 60 was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014.
It applies to the executive directors at the date of this report and is intended to apply for three years from adoption in relation to any new executive director appointments.
We believe that sustained growth can be successfully achieved only with a high level of employee engagement and motivation.
We believe that it is in shareholders best interests that the Group is able to attract the best talent in the world within our specialised market.
All elements of pay and benets set out in the policy table are regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and motivate appropriately skilled executives and align their remuneration to the long-term success of the Group.
The structure of appropriately competitive base salaries and higher potential incentives supports both shortand long-term strategy and has proved both motivational and successful in achieving strong business performance over the past few years.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 53 This Remuneration Policy section of the report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Largeand Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Committee has also taken into account the principles set out in Schedule A to the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the ABIs Principles of Remuneration published in November 2013.
It also takes account of pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In particular, the Committee is mindful of the fact that all employees receive share awards under the Groups equity plans.
The Committee does not specically consult with employees when setting and reviewing remuneration policy for the executive directors: however, it does review the salary increases for all Executive Committee members against the general employee pay award each year to ensure that there is fairness.
Employees have an opportunity to raise any concerns over pay and benets through the annual employee engagement survey or direct with their line manager.
The EVP People and the VP Reward attend meetings by invitation and are available to answer the Committees questions on wider employee remuneration matters.
Shareholding requirements In order to align executives interests with those of shareholders over a longer time period, from 2014 onwards all Executive Committee members are required to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary an increase from the previous level of 100% of base salary.
For other participants in the LTIP, the shareholding requirement has increased from 50% to 100% of base salary.
Unvested shares under the LTIP and former DAB Plan do not count towards the shareholding requirements.
Until these levels are achieved, no more than 50% of shares received through vesting under the DAB Plan and LTIP after the automatic sale of shares to satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed of by participants.
For 2014 a transitional arrangement applied for participants below Executive Committee level under which 20% of net shares vesting must be retained.
This increased to 50% for 2015 onwards.
Service contracts Our policy is that notice periods for executive directors are of one years duration and each of the executive directors service contracts reects this.
These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis and contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers, and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service contract contains an express obligation of condentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and condential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Simon Segars 17 July 2014 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Service contracts for the executive directors and appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive directors are available to view in the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.
The term of appointment for non-executive directors is three years, which can be rolled forward for two further periods each of three years, which would be subject to annual review.
Appointments are subject to termination on three months notice.
Fees paid to non-executive directors are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January.
54 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Policy continued... Remuneration Policy for executive directors Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually by the Base salaries are set at an None, although the overall performance of Committee and are paid monthly in cash.
appropriate level for each role, each executive director is considered by the To provide an appropriately taking account of the factors Committee when reviewing base salaries.
competitive level of base salary Increases generally apply from January in each described in this table.
in order to enable the Group year.
In its annual review or on promotion, the Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay to recruit, retain and motivate Committee considers the following: Generally, salaries are no higher in lieu of notice may be made at the discretion executive directors of the than market median, although of the Group.
This would include base salary Pay levels at companies of similar size by calibre required to achieve the higher salaries may be paid, if and contractual benets pro-rated where reference to market capitalisation and Groups business strategy and necessary, to recruit externally applicable and any untaken holiday.
revenue on a geographic and global basis.
goal of sustained growth in or to retain key executives.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also External market conditions.
In normal circumstances Pay and benets elsewhere in the Group.
base salary increases will be Individual performance, skills, experience determined by reference to and potential.
average increases for employees Corporate performance on across the Group.
environmental, social and corporate Greater increases may be governance issues.
approved if there is a substantial Clawback does not apply to base salary in change in a directors role accordance with contractual agreements.
or responsibilities or if the salary is signicantly below the current market rate.
In such circumstances, increases may be phased over a number of years and be conditional on performance.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 55 Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Performance-related bonus Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for Maximum bonus: 125% of Amount is subject to achievement of two performance targets and then adjusted for 2014 onwards.
in respect of 2014 financial year individual performance: onwards Paid annually after the Preliminary Bonus payable at target: 85% of Announcement for the prior year end.
To incentivise executive directors Total revenue 50% of target bonus.
to achieve performance Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Target means the achievement objectives that are directly of appropriate maximum Individual performance measures specic Individual performance measures are focused linked to the Groups short-term targets in respect of both to each executive director, which ex the on objectives that are specic to each financial and strategic goals.
Normalised Operating profit amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25. executive director.
NOP and total revenue Revenue and profit growth are regarded as Clawback: provisions exist that require and prior to any personal the most appropriate short-term metrics for bonus to be forfeited i. e. offset of bonus performance adjustment.
accruing in that year or an equivalent value Bonus payable at threshold: repaid in exceptional circumstances.
These The Committee retains discretion to adjust 0% of base salary include material misstatement of published bonus targets for any financial year to reect results and misconduct causing a material Threshold means the minimum intervening events including acquisitions loss and would apply for two years from the level of performance before or disposals.
The proportion of bonus starts to accrue.
The numerical values of targets for any particular the bonus that would be repayable and could financial year will not be disclosed in advance or be 100% would depend on the extent to during that year as the Committee considers this which the original bonus exceeds that which information to be commercially sensitive.
The would have been paid if the results had been actual targets will be disclosed in the following correctly stated, and also taking into account financial year.
any negative impact of the re-statement.
Performance-related bonus Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject Maximum and target bonus The targets for 2013 bonus were: to the provisions of the DAB Plan.
This was the opportunity of 150% and 100% 50% of target bonus was dependent on in respect of years up to and final operation of the DAB Plan.
achieving a NOP target of 313.5 million including 2013 with 0% payout at 257.7 million rising in a Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred To incentivise executive directors linear way to 25% at 294.6 million.
shares based on NOP, total revenue and to achieve performance individual performance.
The NOP portion of bonus can continue to objectives that are directly accrue linearly above the target of 313.5 linked to the Groups short-term There is compulsory deferral into shares for million on a straight-line basis, subject to the financial and strategic goals.
overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
Revenue and profit growth Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving are regarded as the most the range of 0.3 for 1 to 2 for 1 match subject a US$ revenue target of US$1,096 million appropriate short-term to three-year EPS growth of CPI 4% to CPI with 0% payout at US$913.2 million rising to metrics for continuing the 12% per annum respectively.
Deferred and any matching shares in relation The revenue portion of bonus can continue to 2013 performance will be received in to accrue above the target of US$1,096 February 2017. million so that for every 1% increase in revenue, bonus is increased by 2.5% of the Dividend shares are added at vesting.
target, subject to the overall maximum of Provisions exist that could result in immediate 150% of base salary.
forfeiture of shares in the event of dismissal Bonus amount is then subject to an individual for gross misconduct, as determined by the performance multiplier which exes the Committee and at its discretion.
payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
56 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Policy continued...
Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Long-Term Incentive Annual conditional share awards are made Maximum limit of 600% in For the 2014 award vesting is based on: exceptional circumstances as Plan 2013 at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR vesting of between 0% to 200% after three determined by the Committee.
first operation in 2014 growth relative to the FTSE All-World years dependent on achievement of the By way of example, exceptional Technology Index 25%.
To incentivise executive directors performance conditions, with a maximum of circumstances could include the to achieve performance three-year TSR growth relative to the 375% of base salary.
hiring of an exceptional senior objectives that are directly linked FTSE 350 25%.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to executive director in a highly to the Groups long-term financial three-year normalised EPS growth 50% with additional holding periods with 25% released competitive market where we and strategic goals.
threshold at 15% annual growth including CPI after four years and the remaining 25% need to make an exceptional and the upper performance target at 22% To align executive directors released after five years.
During these new offer in order to recruit.
interests with those of the annual growth including CPI.
holding periods, shares may not be sold even if shareholders through the 25% of the respective TSR elements vest for the participant has left the Group.
performance conditions and median performance with 100% vesting for Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Malus: The Committee has discretion to Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element reduce a share award including to nil prior vests at threshold performance with 100% to vesting where there are exceptional vesting at the upper performance target with circumstances, which include a material straight-line interpolation between these misstatement in the Groups published results, two points.
misconduct by the executive director that is The Committee will review the performance deemed to have caused or contributed to a conditions for new awards annually.
material loss as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions, or inappropriate values The Committee has discretion to waive or or behaviour.
change a performance condition if anything happens that causes the Committee reasonably Clawback: The Committee has discretion to consider it appropriate, provided that any to clawback shares and executive directors changed performance condition will be no more have an obligation under the Rules to transfer difficult to satisfy than the original condition shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in was intended to be at the time the award exceptional circumstances as described was granted.
If sold at less than market value, the obligation is to pay market value at the date of disposal.
Clawback would be less any tax and social security paid or due to be paid.
The Committee has discretion to set the length of the clawback period, which would normally be two years from acquisition of the shares.
Shareholding requirement Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 50% of shares received through the DAB Plan To align executive directors and LTIP after the automatic sale of shares to interests with those of satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed of.
shareholders over a longer time period, they are required to Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count build a shareholding of 200% of towards the shareholding requirements.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 57 Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Long-Term Incentive Plan Annual conditional awards normally at 100% Maximum award limit of 400% Vesting is based on: of salary with the potential for the award to in exceptional circumstances was in respect of years up to and three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE All vest at between 0% and 200% of salary for never used.
upper decile performance at the end of the To incentivise executive directors three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 three-year performance period.
objectives that are directly linked Threshold vesting commencing at median to the Groups long-term financial ranking of TSR group 25% of respective TSR and strategic goals.
elements rising to 100% vesting for an upper To align executive directors decile ranking on a straight-line basis.
interests with those of the The Committee has discretion to waive or shareholders through the change a performance condition in the event of performance conditions and circumstances which cause the Committee to share retention obligations.
reasonably consider that: a the amended Performance Condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no easier to satisfy: or b the Performance Condition should be waived.
Pension 10% of base salary for executive directors and 11% of base salary.
11% for the Chief Executive Officer is paid To provide pension contributions either into the Group Personal Pension Plan in line with market practice, or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance which will enable directors to plan subject to payroll deductions for those in for retirement.
excess of the lifetime allowance applicable in the UK.
58 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Policy continued...
Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Other benets Other benets are provided appropriate Reasonable market cost of Not applicable.
to the location of the executive director providing benets.
To provide competitive and include provision of a car or car and benets in line with market The Committee reserves the fuel allowance, long-term sickness and practice to enable the Group to discretion to provide such disability insurance, death in service benefit, recruit and retain high-calibre situation-specic benets as and healthcare and travel insurance for the executive directors.
may be required in the interests executive director and family.
of the Groups business, such To reward innovation Executive directors may also receive patent as relocation.
bonuses in line with the scheme operated of the exercise of any such by the Group from time to time for patent discretion would be provided applications and on grants of patents.
to shareholders in the next Remuneration report.
Overseas benets Executives based in countries outside Reasonable market cost of Not applicable.
Relocation allowances their home country receive other benets providing benets for the appropriate to the country in which they duration of the term abroad.
To provide competitive benets are working.
in line with market practice to enable the Group to recruit and In the event that an executive director agrees retain high-calibre executive to move from their home country temporarily, directors and move them to the relocation arrangements may include: alternative locations when Housing allowance or settlement of required by the needs of actual costs: the business.
Disturbance allowance to enable essential household purchases to be made: Cost of living and transportation allowance for the duration of the assignment: Flights home for executive and family: School fees for executive directors children: Cost of personal tax advice: Cost of visas for executive and family: Cost of transporting executive and familys personal effects: Legal and estate agents fees associated with properties in home and overseas locations.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 59 Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion One-off recruitment cash An award of restricted stock units RSUs The maximum would be a sum The Committee has discretion to determine equity awards or a grant of options may be made under equal to the value of equity appropriate performance conditions for any the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit to foregone, taking account of award of RSUs, any LTIP award, or any grant of To provide an appropriately compensate for equity awards foregone with performance conditions attached options taking account of the circumstances of attractive package to persuade an previous employer and or provide equity to the award, likelihood of each individual case.
Performance conditions external hire to accept an offer that vests in the three years prior to potential vesting, and accelerated payment.
would normally be applied on an equivalent basis of employment and or to buy vesting of the first LTIP award.
to those applicable to awards made to other out equity that would be lost on executive directors in the same calendar year.
Alternatively, a cash payment or an additional Performance conditions may, but would not LTIP award may be made to compensate.
necessarily be applied to any cash payment.
Payment may be on taking up appointment or to coincide with vesting dates under the previous employers plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
Other Contributory ARM currently operates a Save as You The maximum participation Not applicable.
Equity Plans Earn Option Scheme in the UK and some limits will not exceed those set by other countries and an Employee Stock the relevant tax authorities from Executive directors are eligible Purchase Plan in the US and some other time to time.
to participate in the share plan countries, which enables employees to buy applicable to the country where shares at a discount of up to 20% of market they work.
value through regular monthly or fortnightly These plans provide an payroll deductions.
opportunity for executive directors to voluntarily invest in the Group.
Fees for non-executive Executive directors are permitted to retain The amounts received are Not applicable.
roles held outside the any fees paid and or shares offered in disclosed annually.
Group connection with external non-executive roles Details are provided on page 51. that they undertake.
To provide executive directors with opportunities to widen their knowledge and experience of the operation of other company boards and committees, they are permitted to hold non-executive positions at other companies.
60 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Annual report on remuneration Policy continued...
Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Non-executive directors NED fees are proposed by the executive Fees are set at an appropriate Not applicable.
NED and Chairmans fees directors and approved by the Board as a level taking into account the whole.
The Chairmans fee is proposed by the factors outlined in this table.
To attract and retain an Committee and approved by the Board as appropriately experienced Additional fees are paid to the a whole with the Chairman taking no part in Chairman and independent nonSID and Committee Chairmen.
executive directors of suitable An additional fee is paid to calibre to full a range of different NED appointments are terminable on three NEDs based outside the UK roles including financial expert months notice.
who undertake long-haul travel Audit Committee Chairman, Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and to attend Board meetings in Senior Independent Director and take account of fees paid for similar roles by the UK, to reect the additional Committee Chairmen.
To pay fees that reect The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible responsibilities and workload to receive bonuses, pension contributions and undertaken, and which are nor can they participate in the LTIP or other competitive with peer companies.
The overall fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in our Articles of Association, currently 1.0million, as approved at the 2014 AGM.
pre 27 June 2012 Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP.
Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60.
In the event of termination of an executive directors contract of employment, compensation would be based on salary and contractual benets during the notice period and whether the departing director is deemed to be a good leaver under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, the 2013 LTIP, the former LTIP, and the former DAB Plan.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 61 Contractual provisions Plan Rules Exit Payment Policy Service contracts Payment of contractual entitlements, including payment in lieu of Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice may notice in appropriate circumstances, where certainty and protection be made at the discretion of the Group.
of restrictive covenants are in the best interests of the Group.
This would include base salary and contractual benets pro-rated Termination payments would take into account the particular where applicable and any untaken holiday.
circumstances relevant to each individual situation.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by the Group.
LTIP For good leavers conditional awards under the LTIP would In relation to both the LTIP and Bonus Plan: in assessing whether normally vest pro-rata to time served and the extent to which the an executive director is a good leaver in retirement circumstances, performance conditions are satisfied at the date of termination the executive director is required to confirm future intentions to of employment.
the Committee including that he or she will not accept a full-time executive role in a commercial organisation.
If the Committee For bad leavers, unvested share awards would lapse on termination determines that the executive director is a good leaver and of employment.
subject to satisfaction of performance targets, pro-rated vesting of entitlements under the old and new LTIPs and bonus plans would normally be approved.
The holding periods described in the Remuneration Policy table would apply to any shares that vest under the LTIP.
Bonus Plans There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
In the event of death or leaving as a result of disability or ill health, pro-rata bonus may be paid for the year of cessation.
Bad leavers would not receive performance-related bonus awards in relation to the year of cessation.
Clawback provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited i. e. offset of bonus accruing in that year or an equivalent value repaid should it be necessary for the Group to re-state to a material extent the financial results on which the bonus was awarded within two years of the payment of such bonus.
The proportion of the bonus that would be repayable which could be 100% would depend on the extent to which the original bonus exceeds that which would have been paid if the results had been correctly stated, also taking into account any negative impact of the re-statement.
Former DAB Plan Deferred shares under the former DAB Plan would vest on termination.
Deferred shares can be forfeited in certain circumstances.
Matching shares vest, to the extent the performance conditions are satisfied, for good leavers only.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board.
Larry Hirst Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 February 2015 62 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, ARM Holdings plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited ARM Holdings plcs financial statements comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash ow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 15.7 million, which represents 5% of profit before exceptional items and taxation.
We conducted full scope audit procedures over ARM Limited and ARM Inc. We performed specic audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at other Materiality Group companies.
Taken together, the Group companies over which we performed our audit work accounted for 99% of the Groups third-party revenues and profit, and over 90% of the Groups expenses and net assets.
Audit scope Our audit focussed on the following areas based on materiality and risk: revenue recognition: litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property IP risk: Areas of focus taxation: share-based payment charges: and changes in presentation resulting from the Groups internal reorganisation.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors have made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved applying  assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identied as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specic areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identied by our audit.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 63 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls that the Group uses to ensure the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised, See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 19 for the including controls over the degree of completion of revenue contracts at year-end.
directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates.
We found the operation of these controls to be effective, which The timing of licence revenue recognition which makes up 45% of the Groups provided us with audit evidence that licence revenue had been gross revenue of 795.2 million is inherently complex.
recorded accurately and in the correct period, in accordance with Recognition of licence revenue involves a number of significant judgements by the the Groups accounting policies.
Because significant judgements directors, including: are made in recognising revenue, we performed further testing of revenue contracts.
determining whether contracts contain deliverables which should be separated for revenue recognition purposes and the most appropriate revenue We read a sample of licence contracts selected on a high value basis and assessed recognition methodology for each of those elements: whether the revenue recognition methodology was consistent with accounting determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value basis between standards and had been applied consistently.
Where a contract contained multiple components of multi-element contracts as noted above where this can be elements, we considered managements judgements as to whether there were supported based on evidence of stand-alone selling prices and whether the elements that should be accounted for separately, and, in such cases, challenged the consideration is deemed probable where a contract incorporates extended judgements made in the allocation of the consideration to each element.
payment terms: and We evaluated and challenged the significant judgements including assumptions assessing the degree of completion of contracts which are accounted for on a used and estimates made by management in applying the Groups policy to specic percentage of completion basis.
contracts and separable elements of contracts, and we obtained evidence to As described in note 1b, royalty revenues earned on sales by the Groups customers support them, including details of contractual agreements, delivery records, time of products containing ARM technology are recognised when the Group receives records sheets, cash receipts and project plans.
We noted no instances of notication from the customer of product sales, which is typically in the quarter inappropriate revenue recognition arising in our testing.
For the contracts selected we inspected original signed contracts, re-performed In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue managements calculations and agreed the revenue recognised to the underlying recognition for every audit conducted under these auditing standards because of accounting records.
We did not identify any material exceptions in our testing.
the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
We obtained managements calculations of the degree of completion of contracts at year-end.
We agreed a sample of source data used in managements calculations to supporting evidence, and evaluated the judgements applied.
We also considered the historical outturn of judgements made in prior periods.
We tested royalty revenues by agreeing a sample of amounts recognised to customer notications and cash receipts.
No material exceptions were noted from our testing.
In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was recorded through journal entries we tested a sample of journals to establish whether there were any unusual items.
No such items were identied from our testing.
Litigation risk We discussed litigation with the Groups in-house legal counsel and obtained conrmations from external legal advisers.
We assessed the adequacy of provisions See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 19 for the recognised and disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
We found directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note that the determination of whether provision was required and the 24 for further information.
amount of any such provision were consistent with the legal advice The Group has exposure to patent infringement disputes, sometimes directly, but in and managements assessment of potential settlement costs, based, most cases through indemnity provisions in its contracts with customers.
where appropriate, on latest information including the extent to Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any provisions which each matter has evolved.
required or disclosures made for contingent liabilities.
Where indemnification costs with a licensee and litigation settlements through purchase of a licence were expensed during the year, we vouched these to evidence of payment and examined the associated settlement contracts.
We did not identify any material exceptions.
64 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued... Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation Using specialised tax knowledge in relevant jurisdictions, we tested the Groups tax computations and assessed and challenged the judgements made considering See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 19 for the their consistency with applicable legislation and practice, including evaluating directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note managements assessment of the likely resolution of uncertain tax positions.
We 7 for specic taxation disclosures.
tested the calculation of the impact of the UK patent box regime on the Groups The calculation of the Groups total tax charge of 61.1 million is subject to a number effective current and deferred tax rates, evaluating the judgements made in of complexities, in particular because the Group operates in several jurisdictions.
determining the level of current and future taxable profit within the scope of this Tax provisioning in relation to ongoing enquiries with local tax authorities is a specic regime, and checked the application of the methodology to applicable legislation.
In addition, the estimated impact on the Groups UK deferred We found no material exceptions in our testing.
tax balances of the UK patent box regime and the level of provisioning in relation to We read the Groups correspondence with local tax authorities in the UK and US identied tax risks is judgemental.
during the year and assessed the implications for tax provisioning.
The evidence that we obtained from reading this correspondence supported the directors decisions regarding the level of tax provisioning.
Share-based payment charges We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in place over the calculation and recording of the share-based payment expense.
We substantively tested the See note 1b to the financial statements for the directors disclosures of the related Groups share-based payment calculations and the associated tax computations and accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 21 for more information.
challenged managements assumptions in estimating the fair value of awards granted The calculation of the Groups share-based payment expense of 68.5 million is during the year and the number of awards that are expected to vest by considering subject to a number of management determined assumptions in estimating the the outturn of historical estimates made by management and market data.
We fair value of share awards granted in the year and the number of awards that are traced inputs to the fair value calculation to underlying grant documents, option expected to vest.
The Monte-Carlo option pricing model used to fair value the scheme rules and comparable market data.
We did not identify any material LTIP awards granted in 2014 is complex and requires technical expertise in choosing exceptions in our testing.
appropriate assumptions such as, volatility and the calculation of the average We focussed on and challenged the assumptions used in the Monte-Carlo option correlation for the FTSE 350 and FTSE All World Technology Index.
There is a pricing model for the LTIP awards granted in 2014 by comparing them to external risk that assumptions used may be signicantly under or over stated, which could market data and other third-party evidence.
We found that the assumptions materially impact the Groups share-based payment expense.
used in the Monte-Carlo option pricing model were comparable with market data and other third-party evidence.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 65 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Changes in presentation resulting from the Groups internal We challenged the directors evaluation of the Groups operating segments and reorganisation CGUs by performing the following: See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report on page 19 for the The Group has identied the CEO and Executive Committee to be the CODM.
We inspected minutes of meetings and evaluated the Groups internal directors disclosures of the related accounting policies and reporting impact of the Groups reporting structure in assessing whether these evidenced that the CEO internal reorganisation and note 13 for more information on goodwill.
and Executive Committee were responsible for making decisions about the From 1 January 2014, the Group reorganised its internal operational structure as allocation of resources within the Group and in reviewing both financial and explained in note 1b.
Consequently, the directors have re-evaluated the Groups non-financial performance: internal reporting systems in order to identify the Chief Operating Decision Maker We inspected minutes of meetings involving the CODM and the regular financial CODM of the Group following the internal reorganisation, and therefore the reporting provided to the CODM in order to assess whether this identied operating segments of the Group based on the regular reporting reviewed by the more than one reportable operating segment of the Group: and CODM that is used to make decisions about the allocation of resources within the We evaluated the detailed internal financial reporting to assess whether Group and assess its performance.
As described in note 1b, the directors have there are any identiable groups of assets generating cash inows largely determined that with effect from the second half of 2014 the Group now has a independently of the cash inows from other assets or groups of assets, and single reportable operating segment.
thus whether there potentially exists a CGU which is smaller than the operating The directors have further re-evaluated the Groups cash-generating units segment level.
CGUs in light of the reorganisation.
The directors have performed their annual The evidence that we examined supported the directors conclusion goodwill impairment review at the operating segment level.
As a result, we focussed that there is one reportable operating segment and that there is no on the risk that: CGU below operating segment level, with appropriate disclosure the directors evaluation of the Groups operating segments is inconsistent with given of the changes in presentation that result from this.
the regular reporting reviewed by the CODM and used to make decisions We also examined the directors annual impairment assessment at the operating about the allocation of resources within the Group and assess its performance, segment level, and challenged managements assumptions relating to the discount and therefore that there could potentially be more than one operating segment rate used, the achievability of forecast revenues and profits, and the terminal requiring disclosure: and growth rate, as disclosed in note 13, that have been made in calculating the value the directors evaluation of the Groups CGUs did not identify the smallest in use of the Group.
We found that there was sufficient headroom in identiable group of assets that generates cash inows that are largely the calculations for it not to be sensitive to reasonable changes in independent of the cash inows from other assets or groups of assets, and the assumptions.
therefore the annual goodwill impairment test was not performed to a sufficiently detailed level.
The performance of the annual goodwill impairment review at the operating segment level means that there is substantial headroom in the annual impairment test to support the Groups goodwill balance of 567.0 million.
The level of judgement in the annual goodwill impairment test is signicantly reduced as compared to 2013, when the test was performed using three CGUs and allocations of cash ows performed in determining the value in use of the PIPD CGU.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 31 companies, comprising the Groups operating businesses and head office entities.
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group ARM Limited and ARM Inc. which contribute 99% of the Groups thirdparty revenues and profits, and more than 80% of the Groups expenses and net assets.
We performed full scope audit procedures at ARM Limited and ARM Inc. We also performed specified audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at other Group companies, representing approximately 9% of the Groups expenses.
All audit work in respect of the Group financial statements, including that on the Group consolidation, disclosures in the financial statements and all the areas of focus, was performed by the Group engagement team including visits to ARM Inc. s US-based operations with the exception of taxation, where assistance was received from other PwC network rms in respect of judgements made in respect of tax charges in overseas jurisdictions.
66 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued... Materiality The scope of our audit is inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 15.7 million 2013: 13.2 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before exceptional items and taxation.
Rationale for benchmark This is, in our view, the most relevant measure of the performance of the Group, and provides us with a applied consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring disproportionate impact of exceptional items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identied during our audit above 0.8 million 2013: 0.6 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or arising from this responsibility.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 20, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code We have no exceptions to report the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides arising from this responsibility.
the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on page 19, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions to report Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 67 Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 33, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, andevaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 February 2015 68 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Consolidated income statement 2014 2013 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Revenues 2 795.2 714.6 Cost of revenues 37.8 39.3 Gross profit 757.4 675.3 Operating expenses Research and development 224.2 202.9 Sales and marketing 93.2 89.4 General and administrative 131.0 128.2 Total operating expenses before exceptional items 448.4 420.5 Exceptional items 6 101.3 Total operating expenses after exceptional items 448.4 521.8 profit from operations 309.0 153.5 Investment income 11.3 13.3 Interest payable and similar charges 0.3 0.2 Share of results in joint venture 27 3.5 4.0 profit before tax 5 316.5 162.6 Tax including nil in respect of exceptional items 2013: 8.6 million 7 61.1 57.8 profit for the year 255.4 104.8 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings 255.4 104.8 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 1,406.2 1,396.4 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 14.9 15.4 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,421.1 1,411.8 Basic EPS 18.2p 7.5p Diluted EPS 18.0p 7.4p All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.
The Company has opted to present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown on pages 117 to 124.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 8 and 26 of the financial statements respectively.
Consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome 2014 2013 For the year ended 31 December Note m m profit for the year 255.4 104.8 Other comprehensive income loss : Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 1.1 million 2013: nil 11 4.3 Currency translation adjustment 34.6 17.9 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 38.9 17.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 294.3 86.9 These items may be reclassied to the income statement if certain conditions are met.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 69 Consolidated balance sheet 2014 2013 At 31 December Note m m Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 17 54.1 43.8 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 17 620.8 544.1 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 5.1 Embedded derivatives 17 2.6 Accounts receivable 9 138.6 136.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 1.2 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 43.2 39.8 Current tax assets 8.9 6.9 Inventories 2.7 3.0 Total current assets 870.9 780.1 Non-current assets: Long-term deposits and similar instruments 17 191.4 125.6 Loans and receivables 17 3.0 3.0 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 23.7 13.9 Investment in joint venture 27 3.0 6.5 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 1.7 1.6 Property, plant and equipment 12 43.4 33.6 Goodwill 13 567.0 525.9 Other intangible assets 14 77.2 82.9 Deferred tax assets 7 55.9 65.3 Total non-current assets 966.3 858.3 Total assets 1,837.2 1,638.4 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable 17 11.7 7.0 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 4.8 Embedded derivatives 17 7.0 Accrued and other liabilities 15 80.6 88.1 Finance lease liabilities 16 3.9 2.7 Current tax liabilities 31.9 18.8 Deferred revenue 127.4 156.7 Total current liabilities 260.3 280.3 Non-current liabilities: Accrued and other liabilities 15 2.6 Finance lease liabilities 16 2.6 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 7 0.4 0.1 Deferred revenue 45.6 42.5 Total non-current liabilities 48.6 46.7 Total liabilities 308.9 327.0 Net assets 1,528.3 1,311.4 Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company Share capital 18 0.7 0.7 Share premium account 24.9 18.1 Capital reserve 354.3 354.3 Share option reserve 61.4 61.4 Retained earnings 991.8 820.6 Revaluation reserve 4.3 Cumulative translation adjustment 90.9 56.3 Total equity 1,528.3 1,311.4 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 68 to 116 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 70 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Consolidated cash ow statement 2014 2013 For the year ended 31 December Note m m profit before tax 316.5 162.6 Investment income net of interest payable and similar charges 11.0 13.1 Share of results in joint venture 3.5 4.0 profit from operations 309.0 153.5 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 35.6 28.0 Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 68.5 59.2 Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets including non-cash exceptional item ofnil 2013:59.5 million 1.0 66.3 profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 3.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6 Provision for doubtful debts 0.3 4.0 Non-cash foreign currency losses gains 3.4 3.6 Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 9.9 3.7 Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives 9.6 4.4 Changes in working capital Accounts receivable 4.0 19.8 Inventories 0.3 0.7 Prepaid expenses and other assets 9.9 8.8 Accounts payable 4.5 1.1 Deferred revenue 24.8 53.1 Accrued and other liabilities 11.6 8.3 Cash generated by operations before tax 372.4 338.6 Income taxes paid 30.8 23.3 Net cash from operating activities 341.6 315.3 Investing activities Interest received net of interest paid of 0.3 million 2013: 0.2 million 13.3 13.2 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 20.4 13.5 Purchases of other intangible assets 10.0 31.8 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 11 5.0 8.9 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2.2 5.5 Purchase of shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, net 145.1 188.5 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 20 12.8 21.1 Investment in joint venture 27 3.7 Provision of long-term loan 0.7 Net cash used in investing activities 177.8 249.5 Financing activities Proceeds received on issuance of shares 18 6.8 5.9 Purchase of own shares 19 66.9 Dividends paid to shareholders 8 86.1 68.9 Repayment of borrowings 1.2 1.1 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 6.4 3.3 Net cash used in nancing activities 153.8 67.4 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 10.0 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 43.8 46.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 54.1 43.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 71 Consolidated statement of changes inshareholders equity Attributable to the owners of the Company Share Share Cumulative Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation translation capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve adjustment Total For the year ended 31 December m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2013 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 74.2 1,206.1 profit for the year 104.8 104.8 Other comprehensive loss: Currency translation adjustment 17.9 17.9 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 104.8 17.9 86.9 Shares issued on exercise of share options andawards note 18 5.9 5.9 Dividends note 8 68.9 68.9 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 59.2 59.2 Movement on tax arising on share options andawards 22.2 22.2 5.9 12.5 18.4 Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 56.3 1,311.4 profit for the year 255.4 255.4 Other comprehensive income: Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 1.1 million 4.3 4.3 Currency translation adjustment 34.6 34.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 255.4 4.3 34.6 294.3 Shares issued on exercise of share options andawards note 18 6.8 6.8 Dividends note 8 86.1 86.1 Purchase of own shares note 19 66.9 66.9 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 68.5 68.5 Movement on tax arising on share options andawards 0.3 0.3 6.8 84.2 77.4 Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3 Capital reserve.
In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reserve has been classied as a capital reserve to reect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition.
This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The Company includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are classied as available-for-sale financial assets.
These are carried at fair value.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement.
Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistributable.
72 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1a General information about the Group The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded microprocessor applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microcontrollers, application-specic integrated circuits ASICs and application-specic standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC peripherals, enterprise networking and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacic.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered office of the Company is 110Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, Geomerics Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Finland Oy incorporated in Finland, ARM Ireland Limited incorporated in Republic of Ireland, ARM Hungary KFT incorporated in Hungary, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM Electronic Technology Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan, and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention as modied by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale AFS financial assets: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 73 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Segmental reporting The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
As at 31 December 2014, the Groups internal organisation and management structure reect this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM is provided with financial information.
The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based on consolidated results of operations.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee ofthe Group.
At 30 June 2014, the changes had not been fully reected in the Groups internal reporting systems and therefore the interim results were issued under the previous structure.
The reporting systems were fully updated for the re-organisation in the second half of 2014.
As a result, the Group now has one reportable segment.
Impairment of goodwill The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the assets to which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 13, estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash ows from the assets and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash ows.
The discount rate is based on an estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% 2013: 10% pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% 2013: 11%.
The Group now reviews the carrying value of its assets including goodwill at the operating segment level.
Revenue recognition The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed in detail in the revenue recognition policy on page 75, estimates are made in relation to the use of the  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignicant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, it is assumed that the fair value of each element can be estimated reliably.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Provisions for income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
significant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Provisions are calculated based upon advice received from tax advisors and relevant correspondence received from tax authorities.
Provisions are re-assessed at each period end date based upon any relevant new information received.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
74 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Legal settlements and other contingencies Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlements requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are led against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required to indemnify a licensee.
The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised at fair value as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are expected to be satisfied.
This requires the directors to estimate the acquirees future financial performance, typically more than one year post acquisition.
Participation in trust to acquire patent rights During 2013, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights and has made various judgements regarding these transactions.
The directors believe that the Group does not control or have significant inuence over the trust since, amongst other factors it does not have voting rights on the board or significant inuence over the relevant activities of the trust.
The results of the trust have therefore not been consolidated or equity accounted in the Group financial statements.
The Group determined that the participation in the consortium conferred on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Groups own business, and an AFS financial asset conferring the right to certain potential future revenue streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust.
The amount expected to be recovered through this licensing programme was estimated by the Group in conjunction with the management of the trust, which has considerable experience of managing the assets of similar trusts.
The Group assesses its intangible assets for impairment at each reporting date and has reviewed the valuation of the patent rights acquired in this transaction.
Given the design freedom that these rights provide and the size of the future opportunity afforded, the directors have concluded that no impairment of the patent rights is required.
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was instead put up for sale by auction.
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million 2.4 million, which have been accounted for as an additional intangible asset.
The auction process means that there are no further potential cash ows in relation to the AFS financial asset and at the end of 2013, the asset was therefore impaired down to the value of the Groups share of the auction proceeds, resulting in a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 million 59.5 million.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeiture by customers.
New standards, amendments and interpretations New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no new or amended standards adopted by the Group in the year which have had a material impact on the Group.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 75 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classication and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through Other Comprehensive Income OCI and fair value through profit and loss.
The basis of classication depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash ow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit and loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI but not recycling.
There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classication and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Early adoption is permitted, subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is currently assessing IFRS 9s full impact.
IFRS 15 Revenue recognition deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash ows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benets from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted, subject to EU adoption.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15.
Revenue recognition The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 Revenue, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods.
The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold.
The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
It is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group.
The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably.
The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
Licence revenues: Revenue from standard licence products that are not modied to meet the specic requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered to the customer.
Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over licensed IP is relinquished at the point at which the IP is delivered to the customer.
The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably.
It is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group: any economic benets of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to ow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will ow to the Group.
76 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the Groups suppliers.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specic requirements of each customer.
Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a  basis over the period from signing of the licence to completion of ARMs contractual obligations.
Under the  method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance.
After project completion, provisions for additional post-delivery warranty work are recognised in research and development expenses.
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due signicantly outside the period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or signicantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benets associated with these milestones will ow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be included in the arrangement consideration.
In particular, it considers: whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fullled: whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benets associated with such future milestones will ow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group.
The Group does not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual components based on each components fair value, where fair value is the selling price of an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a multiple-component agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more components of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the components as if they were a single component.
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
Royalty revenues: Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group, and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, which the Group considers to be receipt of notication from the customer of product sales.
Notication is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 77 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Other revenues: In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support in the form of support, maintenance and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a when-andif-available basis.
Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service support is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the licensee.
Services such as training that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group.
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specically designed for a given licence such as off-the-shelf software are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess of amounts invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identied, and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straightline basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from them.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software and that are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into operational use, arecapitalised.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset acquired.
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets.
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill.
Management tracks the status of in-process research and development intangible assets such that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use.
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Computer software Three to five years Patents and licences Three to eleven years In-process research and development One to five years Developed technology One to seven years Existing agreements and customer relationships One to six years Core technology Five years Trademarks and tradenames One to five years Order backlog One year 78 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Income taxes The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates individual positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
From April 2013, the benefit of UK research and development is recognised under the UKs Research and Development Expenditure Credit RDEC scheme.
The benefit is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted against research and development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant.
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that willbe in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset orliability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differenceswill be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset, where the taxation authority permits a single net payment.
In 2013, a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made.
The UK patent box regime seeks to tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.
The rules are to be phased in over five years from 1 April 2013 a company will be entitled to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013 14, rising to 100% by 2017 18.
As relevant patent box profits are taxed at 10% and other profits are taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the average rates expected to apply on realisation or settlement.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employee share options or vest of share awards under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under Share-based payments below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Groups income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Impairment of non-financial assets Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the non-financial assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The annual impairment tests in 2014 and 2013 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Furthermore, no trigger events have been identied that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups other intangible assets.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 79 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of non-financial assets continued The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible xed assets are impaired.
If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets fair values less costs to sell and their values-in-use.
If the recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable amounts.
In the case of equity securities classied as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any such evidence exists for AFS financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
Provisions Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount of the outow can be reliably estimated.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the signicance of their nature.
Segment reporting The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
80 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Principles of consolidation continued Business combinations The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reecting their condition at that date.
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition consideration or as employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant inuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a share of the net assets of the arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Research and development expenditure All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes its current process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility, which is evidenced by a working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third-party agrees to partially fund the Groups research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses.
Government grants Grants in respect of specic research and development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with.
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related research and development costs for which the grant is compensating.
The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 81 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is predominantly measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
A Monte-Carlo simulation is used for certain share awards that have market-based performance conditions.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries.
Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general andadministrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Employers taxes on share options Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting of share awards.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
Retirement benefit costs The Group contributes to dened contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
The Group contributes to these plans based upon various xed percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Finance leases Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are classied as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
82 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
c Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inationary economy not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
ii Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the time of each transaction during the period.
iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through other comprehensive income via the cumulative translation adjustment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rates of exchange.
Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each period end.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 83 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Dividends Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the awards and contingently issuable shares granted under the Companys RSU, DAB Plan, and LTIP schemes.
As at 31 December 2014, no shares granted under the 2013 and 2014 LTIPs with market-based performance conditions were included since the current expectation is that these shares will not vest.
Shares granted with EPS related performance conditions and those granted under the 2012 LTIP for which the performance period is now concluded have been included to the extent that it is expected that the shares will vest.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities ofthree months or less.
The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and maturing in less than one year to beshort-term deposits.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classied as long-term.
The Group has also placed money with certain banks in the form of Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes which have similar characteristics to term deposits and may be shortor long-term.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
84 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings 25 years Leasehold improvements Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter Computer equipment Three to five years Fixtures, ttings and motor vehicles Three to five years Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classication of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are financial assets heldfor-trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets.
They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specically, the Groups currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
Accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments are classied as Loans and receivables see note 17.
Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
c Available-for-sale financial assets AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 85 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classied as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs.
Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
The estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value based on estimates determined by management, except where independent valuation information is obtained.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence of permanent impairment in which case the loss is recognised through the income statement within general and administrative expenses or exceptional items where appropriate.
When securities classied as AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled through the income statement.
Accounts payable Accounts payable are recognised at face value as they are settled within 12 months.
Treasury shares Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income taxeffects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
1c Financial risk management The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition.
significant technological changes in theindustry could affect operating results.
The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of theBoard.
The policies set by the directors are implemented by the Groups finance and treasury departments.
The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specic guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
Currency risk The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar, reecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets between Group companies.
86 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Currency risk continued The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, and cash and cash equivalents balances being hedged.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen.
The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
Interest rate risk Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash ow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in xed rather than oating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk below.
Other financial assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate uctuations in place at the year-end since the level of nancing was not considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
The Groups cash ow is carefully monitored on a daily basis.
Excess cash, considering expected future cash ows, is placed on either shortor long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
Securities price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS financial assets.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for these securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its merits before committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies.
The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
The Group performs credit checks on all customers other than those paying in advance in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses from non-performance by these counterparties, other than those already provided for.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 87 1c Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, such that highly liquid resources exceed the Groups projected cash outows at all times.
Surplus funds are placed on xedor oating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic climate at the time with reference to forward interest rates and also on the required maturity of the deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash receipts and payments over the shortto medium-term.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups shortand medium-term expected cash ows.
This is carried out at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
The Groups strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term profitable growth, prevailing trading conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over time.
The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year since.
Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at an average price of 1.22.
In 2014, the interim dividend was increased by 20% and the directors are proposing a 25% increase in the final dividend, reecting the Boards long-term confidence in the business.
As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board has undertaken a limited share buyback programme to maintain a at share-count over time.
During 2014, 7.9 million shares were repurchased for 66.9 million.
The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
Valuation hierarchy The Group classies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments: level 2 instruments are those valued using techniques based signicantly on observable market data: and level 3 instruments are those valued using information other than observable market data.
The Group has a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values.
This team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, and accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount.
2 Segmental reporting The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, no customer accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total revenues 2013: one customer accounted for 12%.
88 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information The Group manages its business on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent Company.
The main operations are in the following principal territories: Europe United States Asia Pacic Analysis of revenue by destination : 2014 2013 m m United States 321.8 280.3 Taiwan 133.7 99.4 PR China 114.5 90.0 South Korea 68.5 101.7 Japan 60.4 47.6 Singapore 18.5 24.6 Switzerland 17.9 24.8 Germany 12.3 13.4 Russia 11.3 0.5 Netherlands 8.1 8.5 Rest of Europe 21.9 19.2 Rest of Asia Pacic 4.7 3.6 Rest of North America 1.6 1.0 795.2 714.6 Destination is dened as the location of the Groups customers operations.
The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent Company amounted to 7.8 million and 4.9 million for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 778.9 million and 699.2 million for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by origin: 2014 2013 m m Europe 786.9 705.3 United States 8.3 9.3 795.2 714.6 Includes the UK, which had total revenues of 786.7 million in 2014 2013: 704.1 million.
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2014 2013 m m Royalties Processors 326.0 317.5 Royalties Physical IP 36.5 40.8 Licensing Processors 309.1 244.4 Licensing Physical IP 52.1 41.2 Software and tools 35.0 36.4 Services 36.5 34.3 795.2 714.6 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 89 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information continued Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : 2014 2013 m m Europe 237.7 172.0 United States 23.4 7.2 Asia Pacic 5.2 5.0 266.3 184.2 Includes the UK, which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 235.5 million in 2014 2013: 171.0 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 191.4 million 2013: 125.6 million.
3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments Key management compensation The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management.
These persons have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2014, key management comprised 20 people 2013: 21.
The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: 2014 2013 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets 6.9 9.5 Share-based payments 7.9 6.1 Post-employment benets 0.4 0.2 15.2 15.8 Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: 2014 2013 m m Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 2.8 3.8 Aggregate payments for pension-related benets 0.2 0.2 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 0.1 3.9 Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 2.5 12.9 Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP 2.5 17.2 8.1 38.0 Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 37.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 43 to 50, which form part of the financial statements.
90 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Employee information The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 2014 2013 Number Number By activity Research and development 2,173 1,803 Sales and marketing 481 425 General and administrative 418 370 3,072 2,598 2014 2013 m m Staff costs for the above persons Wages and salaries 203.6 185.4 Medical care costs 6.1 5.5 Share-based payments note 21 68.5 59.2 Social security costs 29.1 35.1 Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards 2.4 1.4 Other pension costs 11.5 8.7 316.4 292.5 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 91 5 profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: 2014 2013 m m Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 316.4 292.5 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3.8 2.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 12 14.1 11.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under finance leases note 12 5.0 2.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 14 Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3 Research and development expenses 7.5 6.9 Sales and marketing expenses 0.2 0.6 General and administrative expenses 8.5 5.8 Government grants research and development expenditure credit 8.8 5.8 Exceptional items note 6 Impairment of current AFS financial asset 59.5 IP indemnity and similar charges 41.8 Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets note 11 1.0 6.8 profit on disposal of AFS financial assets 0.3 3.3 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 26.0 26.2 Property 11.3 8.7 Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision note 9 0.3 4.0 Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 9.6 4.5 Other foreign exchange losses gains 6.8 3.3 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor and its associates: 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Audit-related assurance services services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 0.4 0.3 Other assurance services 0.1 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.9 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 1.1 1.1 All other non-audit services includes the provision of advice relating to the Groups procurement model in 2014 and fees for the performance of royalty audits in 2013.
92 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Exceptional items IP indemnity and similar charges During 2013, the Group incurred indemnification costs amounting to $18.0 million.
Further in relation to legal proceedings regarding the same patent portfolio, for a consideration of $45.4 million, the Group entered into a licence agreement with a third-party covering patents being asserted against ARM technology in litigation between the patentee and a number of licensees of ARM technology.
The licence was entered into in full and final settlement of any indemnity claims with respect to the asserted patents and will prevent any future assertion of the patents against ARM technology.
Total indemnification, settlement and licence costs of $63.4 million 41.8 million were expensed as an exceptional item in 2013, resulting in a tax deduction in current tax of 9.7 million.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets current During 2013, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights.
These rights were not subject to actual or threatened legal proceedings.
Of the Groups total contribution to the consortium, $100.5 million was classied within current AFS financial assets 60.7 million after translation at 31 December 2013 exchange rates and $67 million, the residual, was classied within other intangible assets 37.4 million after amortisation to 31 December 2013.
The AFS financial asset represented ARMs right to receive cash from the Groups financial interest in the consortium, as it was anticipated that a programme of licensing the patents to third-parties would be undertaken by the trust.
The other intangible asset consists of IP rights that are being amortised over a period of eight-and-a-half years from March 2013, being the average remaining life of the underlying patent portfolio.
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million 2.4 million which have been accounted for as an additional intangible asset.
As there was no longer an expectation of any future cash ows with respect to licensing of the patents by the trust, at 31 December 2013 the AFS financial asset was impaired down to the value of the Groups share of the auction proceeds, giving rise to a non-cash exceptional charge in 2013 of $98.5 million 59.5 million.
As disclosed in note 7, a deferred tax asset was not recognised in relation to this exceptional item, increasing the current tax charge by 18.3 million in 2013.
There were no exceptional items in 2014.
7 Tax Analysis of charge in the year: 2014 2013 m m Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 54.5 56.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.2 Total current tax 53.5 56.3 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.6 4.1 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.0 Impact of change in the UK statutory tax rate 0.1 Impact of change due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 Total deferred tax 7.6 1.5 Income tax expense 61.1 57.8 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards 10.6 4.8 Current tax benefit on share options and awards 10.9 27.0 Deferred tax charge on AFS financial assets 1.1 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 93 7 Tax continued The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 2014 2013 m m profit before tax 316.5 162.6 profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 68.1 37.8 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.0 0.2 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 6.3 4.1 Research and development tax credits 3.7 6.6 Current impact of the UK patent box regime 15.9 4.8 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK statutory tax rate 0.1 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 US deferred tax assets not recognised 0.9 17.5 Foreign withholding tax 2.5 3.0 Impact of share-based payments 5.2 1.5 Other 4.7 2.9 Total taxation 61.1 57.8 2014 amount includes California R&D tax credits not recognised as future California tax is not expected to absorb all of the tax benefit.
Includes a repayment of Taiwanese withholding taxes.
Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and potential additional tax payable on income.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 65.2 70.1 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.4 1.2 Income statement charge 7.6 1.5 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 10.6 4.8 Movement from current tax assets 9.3 3.0 Exchange differences 0.7 0.4 Revaluation of AFS financial asset 1.1 At 31 December 55.5 65.2 Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2014 was 5.8 million 2013: 23.2 million.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and California research and development tax credits.
The losses may remain unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future profits.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 43.1 million 2013: 33.2 million of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is possible that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
94 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Tax continued During 2014, the UK Government announced that a new Patent Box regime based on the newly adopted modied nexus approach will be introduced for IP assets submitted after 30 June 2016.
UK taxpayers that have already submitted assets under the current form of the Patent Box will be allowed to continue to claim benefit through the current regime until 30 June 2021 for those assets.
If these taxpayers also submit assets post 30 June 2016 then the benets relating to these assets will be claimed under the new regime.
Such taxpayers will operate under both regimes until 30 June 2021 when all benets claimed through the Patent Box will be through the modied nexus approach.
These changes have not been enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not taken into account in the measurement of deferred tax.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets Amounts Temporary Tax losses Temporary relating to differences and R&D tax differences share-based relating to credits carried relating to payments xed assets forward liabilities Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7 Movement from current tax assets 9.3 9.3 Income statement credit charge 2.1 2.2 6.2 0.1 0.9 7.1 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 10.6 10.6 Exchange differences 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2014 prior to offsetting 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 60.0 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 4.1 At 31 December 2014 after offsetting 55.9 At 1 January 2013 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.5 0.5 Movement from current tax assets 3.0 3.0 Income statement credit charge 0.8 1.3 2.8 1.5 0.3 1.9 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 4.8 4.8 Unutilised current year share option deductions 6.7 6.7 Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2013 prior to offsetting 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 2.4 At 31 December 2013 after offsetting 65.3 The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is 32.0 million 2013: 35.2 million.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 95 7 Tax continued Deferred tax liabilities Amounts relating to intangible assets Temporary difference arising on acquisition on AFS financial assets Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2014 2.5 2.5 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.4 0.4 Income statement charge 0.2 0.3 0.5 Movement through reserves 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2014 prior to offsetting 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 4.1 At 31 December 2014 after offsetting 0.4 At 1 January 2013 1.1 0.1 1.2 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 1.7 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Other short-term differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2013 prior to offsetting 2.5 2.5 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 2.4 At 31 December 2013 after offsetting 0.1 The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 1.0 million 2013: 1.2 million.
8 Dividends 2014 2013 m m Final 2012 paid at 2.83 pence per share 39.5 Interim 2013 paid at 2.10 pence per share 29.4 Final 2013 paid at 3.60 pence per share 50.7 Interim 2014 paid at 2.52 pence per share 35.4 86.1 68.9 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share, which will absorb an estimated 64 million of shareholders funds.
Subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, it will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 24 April 2015.
96 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Accounts receivable 2014 2013 m m Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 25 138.5 140.3 Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 9.0 9.7 Trade debtors, net 129.5 130.6 Amounts recoverable on contracts 9.1 5.6 Current accounts receivable 138.6 136.2 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 9.7 2.4 Charge to income statement 0.3 4.0 Utilised 2.5 Reclassication from deferred income 1.4 3.5 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 9.0 9.7 See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
10 Prepaid expenses and other assets 2014 2013 m m Other receivables 19.3 18.1 Prepayments 23.9 21.7 Current prepaid expenses and other assets 43.2 39.8 Plus: non-current prepayments 1.7 1.6 Total prepaid expenses and other assets 44.9 41.4 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 97 11 Available-for-sale financial assets 2014 2013 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets m m Net book value At 1 January 13.9 13.8 Additions 5.0 8.9 Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 5.4 Disposals 1.7 Foreign exchange translation 0.4 0.3 Impairment recognised through income statement general and administrative expenses 1.0 6.8 At 31 December 23.7 13.9 2014 2013 Current available-for-sale financial assets m m Net book value At 1 January 1.2 Additions 63.4 Disposals 1.2 Foreign exchange translation 2.7 Impairment recognised through income statement as an exceptional item, see note 6 59.5 At 31 December 1.2 All investments noted above are considered to be level 3 financial assets.
Non-current investments Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits.
The fair value of these investments is considered to approximate to cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available.
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested and does not have independent valuation information e. g. through the occurrence of transactions in the relevant entitys equity instruments as at 31 December 2014 would have reduced the Groups post-tax profit by 1.5 million 2013: 1.1 million and resulted in a nil 2013: nil reduction in other components of equity.
The Groups investments include the following companies: Amantys Limited Ambiq Micro Inc. Cambridge Innovation Capital plc Carbon Design Systems Inc. Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. Marmalade Technologies Limited formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd Triad Semiconductor Inc. At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group had no listed investments.
98 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2014 2013 m m Unlisted equity securities UK 6.5 6.2 Unlisted equity securities US 1.6 1.4 Unlisted equity securities ROW 7.4 1.9 Convertible loan notes UK 1.3 1.3 Convertible loan notes US 6.9 3.1 Total non-current available-for-sale financial assets 23.7 13.9 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets are held in the following currencies: 2014 2013 m m Sterling 15.5 9.5 US dollars 8.2 4.4 Total non-current available-for-sale financial assets 23.7 13.9 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5 Additions 3.0 21.8 1.6 1.9 28.3 Acquisitions 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfers 1.0 1.0 Reclassication 0.3 0.3 Disposals 7.8 3.6 0.6 12.0 Exchange differences 0.6 1.8 0.3 2.1 At 31 December 2014 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2014 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 47.9 Charge for the year 2.8 15.1 1.2 19.1 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 0.2 Disposals 7.7 3.3 0.6 11.6 Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 At 31 December 2014 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 56.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 0.1 10.2 29.1 3.0 1.0 43.4 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 99 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Fixtures, ttings Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0 Additions 2.58.11.82.615.0 Acquisitions 0.10.10.2 Transfers 0.92.3 3.2 Reclassication 3.2 1.7 4.9 Disposals 1.7 5.7 1.0 0.4 8.8 Exchange differences 0.6 1.0 0.3 0.1 2.0 At 31 December 2013 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 45.9 Charge for the year 2.3 11.0 1.1 14.4 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Reclassication 3.2 3.2 Disposals 1.5 5.7 1.0 8.2 Exchange differences 0.2 0.8 0.1 1.1 At 31 December 2013 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 47.9 Net book value At 31 December 2013 0.1 9.7 20.5 2.6 0.7 33.6 Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of 9.5 million 2013: 6.6 million held under finance leases.
Reclassication from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
13 Goodwill m At 1 January 2013 519.4 Exchange differences 9.9 Acquisition Sensinode note 20 6.4 Acquisition Geomerics note 20 10.0 At 31 December 2013 525.9 Exchange differences 30.1 Acquisition Duolog note 20 10.7 Acquisition Offspark note 20 0.3 At 31 December 2014 567.0 100 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Goodwill continued The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
As a result, the Group has one reportable segment and now reviews the carrying value of its assets including goodwill at the operating segment level.
During the fourth quarter of 2014, the directors tested the Groups balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable amount has been measured based on a value-in-use calculation.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Period of projected cash ows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2024 of 3% per annum.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash ows to be generated from the assets under review.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to rise steadily over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash ows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its recoverable amount are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value.
14 Other intangible assets Existing In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5 Additions 2.6 5.1 7.7 Acquisitions 2.7 2.7 Reclassication 0.3 0.3 Disposals 1.7 6.9 8.6 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 0.9 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.1 At 31 December 2014 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2014 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6 Charge for the year 3.0 11.0 1.9 0.2 0.4 16.5 Disposals 1.9 6.9 8.8 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 1.0 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.2 At 31 December 2014 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 5.2 63.6 8.4 77.2 Reclassication from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 101 14 Other intangible assets continued The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology used in SoCs, with a carrying value of 14.2 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 16.0 million and a remaining useful life of eight years, and IP rights acquired in the prior year see note 6 with a carrying value of 32.5 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 37.4 million and a remaining useful life of seven years.
Existing In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total m m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0 Additions 2.074.17.50.383.9 Reclassication 4.9 4.9 Disposals and derecognitions 1.5 2.0 3.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.8 At 31 December 2013 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8 Charge for the year 2.3 8.3 1.5 0.6 0.9 13.6 Reclassication 3.2 3.2 Disposals and derecognitions 1.5 2.0 3.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.5 At 31 December 2013 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6 Net book value At 31 December 2013 5.1 69.5 7.7 0.2 0.4 82.9 Reclassication from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
15 Accrued and other liabilities 2014 2013 m m Accruals: Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 12.8 15.1 Employee bonus and sales commissions 19.3 26.5 Other accruals including nil non-current 2013: 2.6 million 37.3 40.0 Total accruals 69.4 81.6 Other taxation and social security 4.7 4.4 Other payables 6.5 4.7 Total accrued and other liabilities 80.6 90.7 102 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Finance lease liabilities 2014 2013 m m Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Within one year 4.1 2.9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2.6 1.5 Less: future finance charges 0.2 0.2 Present value of lease obligations 6.5 4.2 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 3.9 2.7 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 2.6 1.5 Present value of lease obligations 6.5 4.2 The Group has entered into threeand four-year finance lease arrangements in respect of certain IT equipment.
17 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Financial assets Assets at fair value through Loans and the income Availablereceivables statement for-sale Total m m m m At 31 December 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 54.1 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 620.8 Embedded derivatives 2.6 2.6 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 147.6 147.6 Total current financial assets 822.5 2.6 825.1 Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 191.4 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 23.7 23.7 Total non-current financial assets 194.4 23.7 218.1 Total financial assets 1,016.9 2.6 23.7 1,043.2 At 31 December 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 Short-term deposits 544.1 544.1 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 5.1 5.1 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 145.9 145.9 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 1.2 1.2 Total current financial assets 733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1 Long-term deposits 125.6 125.6 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 13.9 13.9 Total non-current financial assets 128.6 13.9 142.5 Total financial assets 862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 103 17 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued Financial liabilities 2014 2013 m m Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 11.7 7.0 Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 56.3 Finance lease liabilities 6.5 4.2 65.0 67.5 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Embedded derivatives 7.0 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 4.8 Total financial liabilities 69.8 74.5 Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
Valuation hierarchy As at 31 December 2014, the Groups financial instrument assets consisted of embedded derivatives level 2 of 2.6 million 2013: liability of 7.0 million and AFS financial assets level 3 of nil current 2013: 1.2 million current and 23.7 million non-current 2013: 13.9 million non-current.
As at 31 December 2014, the Groups financial instrument liabilities consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income statement level 2 of 4.8 million 2013: asset of 5.1 million.
The Group had no level 1 financial instruments as at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Level 2 currency exchange contracts comprise forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options.
The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market.
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
Level 3 AFS financial assets consist of unlisted equity investments and other current investments.
The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity investments approximates to cost less any permanent diminution in value based on managements estimate of forecast profitability and achievement of set objectives by the relevant entity, except where independent valuation information is obtained, e. g. through the occurrence of funding or other transactions in the relevant entitys equity instruments.
At 31 December 2013, the value of the current investment was based on the amount that was recoverable from an auction process which was held in January 2014.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the level 3 calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value.
104 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued Maturity of financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Between Less than six months and one and Over six months one year two years two years m m m m At 31 December 2014: Accounts payable 11.7 Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 Finance lease liabilities 2.3 1.6 2.1 0.5 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 1.2 0.4 At 31 December 2013: Accounts payable 7.0 Accrued and other liabilities 52.8 0.9 2.6 Finance lease liabilities 1.0 1.7 1.2 0.3 Embedded derivatives 2.4 1.6 2.2 0.8 The Group had no borrowings during 2014 and 2013.
Loans and receivables During 2010, the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
This was recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of 1.9 million, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 0.6 million being recognised as interest payable and similar charges during 2010.
In addition, during 2013 the Group invested a further 0.7 million with Future Business.
The carrying value of the total loans amounted to 3.0 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 3.0 million, with less than 0.1 million being recognised as interest receivable during 2014 2013: 0.1 million.
Short-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on short-term deposits and similar instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.29% 2013: 1.85% and these deposits have an average maturity of 205 days 2013: 178 days.
Long-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on long-term deposits and similar instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.61% 2013: 1.65% and these deposits have an average maturity of 576 days 2013: 531 days.
Derivative financial instruments This table analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Amounts due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 105 17 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued Over three months but Between Less than less than six months and Greater than three months six months one year one year m m m m Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2014 Outow $133.0 $28.0 $13.0 Inow 83.6 17.9 8.4 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2014 Outow maximum $59.1 $59.3 $88.5 $24.0 Inow maximum 37.3 37.4 56.6 16.0 Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2013 Outow $98.0 $13.0 $23.0 $9.0 Inow 60.9 8.0 14.7 6.0 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2013 Outow maximum $41.0 $29.3 $26.2 Inow maximum 26.8 19.4 17.6 Fair value of currency exchange contracts The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the forward rates.
The estimation of the fair value of the liability in respect of currency exchange contracts was 4.8 million at 31 December 2014 2013: asset of 5.1 million.
The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amounting to a loss of 9.4 million 2013: gain of 3.4 million.
b Credit quality of financial assets Trade debtors On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis.
Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justied, with review by senior members of the Groups finance team.
2014 2013 m m Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : Not yet due 86.5 76.1 Under 90 days overdue 31.0 41.2 Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 12.0 13.2 Fully provided for 9.0 9.8 Total 138.5 140.3 106 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued b Credit quality of financial assets continued As shown above, at 31 December 2014, trade debtors less than 90 days overdue excluding those amounts that are not yet due amounted to 31.0 million.
Of those outstanding at 31December 2014, 22.1 million had been collected by 16 February 2015 and 8.3 million was owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to 12.0 million of which 4.2 million had been collected by 16 February 2015 and 3.1 million was owed bylarge, established customers.
For the remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Groups future results.
As shown above, at 31 December 2014, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 9.0 million 2013: 9.8 million.
All of the trade debtors provided for at 31December 2014 are over six months overdue 2013: 4.0 million were up to six months overdue and 5.8 million were over six months overdue.
At31December 2014 and 31 December 2013, no individual customer accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
Credit risk Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with either a Moodys rating of at least A2 P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A F1, or UK building societies with over 2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the majority of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years.
At 31 December 2014, over 99% 2013: 98% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies fullling these criteria.
Interest rate risk At 31 December 2014, the Group had 873.1 million 2013: 713.7 million of interest-bearing assets.
At31December2014, 93% 2013: 93% of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, shortandlong-term deposits and similar instruments, loans and receivables, and the Groups convertible loan notes are at xed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Had interest rates been 1% 100 basis points lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately 7.3million 2013:5.8 million and profit after tax by 5.8 million 2013: 4.6 million.
Currency risk At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $174 million 2013: $143 million for sterling.
In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option to exercise.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $231 million 2013: $97 million for sterling.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had $212 million 2013: $230 million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and cash equivalents, and short-term deposits of $41 million 2013: $14 million.
Thus, the Groups US dollar assets were less than currency exchange contracts and currency options outstanding at the year-end.
Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both the current and expected future level of US dollar assets.
Based on the predictable nature of the Groups cash ows, the Group typically has a greater value of currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held.
At 31 December 2014, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 4.0 million lower 2013: 9.5 million lower, mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year-ends.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 107 18 Share capital 2014 2013 m m Authorised 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2013: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 2014 2013 Number of Number of shares Value shares Value m m m m Issued and fully paid At 1 January 1,400.3 0.7 1,380.8 0.7 Allotted under employee incentive schemes 11.9 19.5 At 31 December 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7 During 2014, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was 6.8 million 2013: 5.9 million.
19 Own shares held Treasury stock m At 1 January 2014 Purchase of own shares 66.9 At 31 December 2014 66.9 During the year, 66.9 million 2013: nil of shares were repurchased, representing 7.9 million 2013: nil shares.
At 31 December 2014, allof these shares were held as treasury stock.
Own shares held have a nominal value of 0.05 pence and in total represent 0.6% of called-up share capital.
20 Acquisitions Two acquisitions were made in 2014: Duolog Holdings Limited, acquired on 27 May 2014 for 13.9 million 11.4 million, and Offspark BV, acquired on 14 November 2014 for 1.5 million 1.2 million.
The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for as acquisitions.
Duolog, a company based in Ireland and Hungary, is a leader in design conguration and integration technology for the semiconductor industry.
The acquisition strengthens the Groups IP conguration and integration capability, helping ARM Partners design and deploy system IP and manage increasing SoC integration complexity.
Offspark BV, a company based in the Netherlands, is a company providing specialised services in the eld of digital security focusing on online security, secure hardware and software and practical cryptography.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.
108 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Acquisitions continued The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition.
Duolog Offspark 27 May 2014 14 November 2014 m m m m Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.6 0.1 0.2 Intangible assets 1.7 2.0 1.0 1.2 Accrued and other liabilities 0.8 1.0 Loans payable 1.2 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities net 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 Net assets acquired 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.1 Goodwill 10.7 13.1 0.3 0.4 Consideration 11.413.91.21.5 The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
From 27 May 2014 to 31 December 2014, the acquisition of Duolog contributed 1.3 million in revenue and incurred a loss of 0.7 million.
If Duolog had been consolidated from 1 January 2014, the consolidated income statement would have included 3.1 million of revenue and 0.5 million of pre-tax loss.
The trading results of Offspark would have had no significant impact on the results of the Group.
There were two acquisitions made in 2013: Sensinode Oy, acquired on 19 July 2013 for $11.7 million 7.7 million, and Geomerics Limited, acquired on 12December 2013 for 12.3 million.
The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for asacquisitions.
Sensinode, a company based in Oulu, Finland, is a provider of software technology for the Internet of Things IoT.
Sensinode is a pioneer in software for low-cost, low-power internet-connected devices and has been a key contributor to open standards for IoT.
This acquisition enables Sensinodes expertise and technology to be accessible to the ARM Partnership and through the ARM mbed project it will enable rapid deployment of new and innovative IoT applications.
Geomerics, a company based in Cambridge, UK, is a leader in lighting technology for the gaming and entertainment industries.
Theacquisition expands ARMs position at the forefront of the visual computing and graphics industries.
Additionally, the agreement enables Geomerics to build on their existing partnerships as well as accelerate their development in the mobile market.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of both Sensinode and Geomerics, including the founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 109 20 Acquisitions continued The following table summarises the consideration and final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition.
Sensinode Geomerics 19 July 2013 12 December 2013 m $m m Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.5 0.2 Intangible assets 2.8 4.3 5.0 Accrued and other liabilities 0.5 0.8 1.9 Loans payable 1.1 1.6 Deferred tax liabilities net 0.2 0.3 1.0 Net assets acquired 1.3 2.1 2.3 Goodwill 6.4 9.6 10.0 Consideration 7.7 11.7 12.3 The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash.
Other During 2014, the Group made a payment of 1.8 million 2013: 2.0 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011.
The Group also made payments of 1.4 million 2013: 0.6 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Prolic Inc in 2011 as well as payments of 0.3 million 2013: nil in respect of timebased bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Sensinode in 2013.
21 Share-based payments Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a xed exercise price.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan.
Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
This scheme wasreplaced after the February 2014 grant with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report onpage40.
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance and EPS performance over the three-year performance period.
Grants were made for the last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it was replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards.
For details of the new scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
110 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Share-based payments continued The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
Options are granted with a xed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant.
These schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
Share options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward.
Shares relating to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2013 or 2014.
All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 68.5 million 2013: 59.2 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1b.
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of LTIP awards granted in 2013 and those granted in 2014 with non-market-based performance conditions i. e. based on EPS performance have also been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 111 21 Share-based payments continued For LTIP awards with market-based performance conditions issued in 2014 the fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the comparator companies in the FTSE 350 and the FTSE All World Technology Index AWTI.
The Monte-Carlo simulation incorporates a range of other assumptions based on the TSR comparator companies: the assumptions given below relate to the Group.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2014 is shown below.
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 2014 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual Exercise price outstanding Years Years Outstanding options: 1.948 7.96 1,575,069 5.66 2.10 2.35 Total  Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 14,702,277 1.26 1.26 0.00 LTIP 2,800,003 1.36 1.36 0.00 DAB 1,395,000 1.06 1.06 Total 18,897,280 1.26 1.26 2013 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual Exercise price outstanding Years Years Outstanding options: 0.7 0.854 571,846 0.76 0.49 0.78 1.01 1.055 19,166 1.04 0.52 1.05 1.25 1,360 1.25 0.04 0.08 1.948 7.96 1,377,547 4.51 2.00 2.25 Total 1,969,919 3.38 1.55 1.81 Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: 0.00 RSUs 16,792,567 1.20 1.20 0.00 LTIP 2,054,203 1.12 1.12 0.00 DAB 1,380,886 1.06 1.06 Total 20,227,656 1.18 1.18 114 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Capital and other financial commitments 2014 2013 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 2.9 9.8 Other financial commitments expenditure on investments 5.4 Included in the amount for 2013 is 9.1 million of equipment relating to the expansion of the US high-performance computing cluster.
23 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments At 31 December 2014, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2014 2013 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total m m m m m m The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 11.6 5.3 16.9 8.5 18.3 26.8 Later than one year and less than five years 31.7 31.7 23.1 5.3 28.4 After five years 9.3 9.3 9.0 9.0 At 31 December 52.6 5.3 57.9 40.6 23.6 64.2 The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms are between one and nine years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
24 Financial contingencies It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third-party.
Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees.
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third-party bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third-partys IP rights.
The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notication from the other party that they are likely to invoke the indemnity.
A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
Currently, there are legal proceedings against some of the Groups licensees in which it is asserted that certain of the Groups technology infringes third-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which could result in a material liability for the Group.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 115 25 Related party transactions During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group incurred subscription costs of nil from Linaro Limited Linaro, an associated company of the Group, 2013: 7.0 million, representing ARMs committed aggregate contributions to Linaro for a period of two years.
In respect of the subscription fees, the Group was invoiced 4.0 million during the year to 31 December 2014 2013: 4.3 million.
As at 31 December 2014, 1.1 million 2013: 1.0 million was owing to Linaro.
In addition, the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to 1.3 million 2013: 1.6 million.
All fees have been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
As at 31 December 2014, 0.3 million 2013: 0.3 million was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 27.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
There were no other related party transactions during 2014 which require disclosure.
26 Post-balance sheet events After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2014 of 4.5 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 24 April 2015.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2014.
27 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures Subsidiaries Details of principal subsidiary undertakings which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the gures shown in the Groups accounts are shown below.
Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length.
A full list is led in the Groups Annual Return.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Proportion of total nominal value of issued Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP.
US Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP.
100 ARM France SAS France Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP.
100 ARM Norway AS Norway Research and development of graphics IP.
Limited India Marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and physical IP.
100 ARM Electronic Technology Shanghai Co. PR China Marketing, research and development of RISC-based Limited microprocessors and graphics IP.
100 The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
116 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures continued Associate During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-profit engineering company created to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro a company incorporated in the UK is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
The Group controls only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
The Group has not recognised any associate profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.
Joint venture In 2012, the Group invested 7.5 million $12.0 million in a joint venture, Trustonic Limited a company incorporated in the UK, representing a 40% shareholding.
With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate the wide deployment of secure, smart devices.
During 2013, the Group invested a further 3.7 million 4.4 million into the joint venture, maintaining the 40% shareholding.
2014 2013 Investment in joint venture m m At 1 January 6.5 6.8 Investment 3.7 Share of results for the period 3.5 4.0 At 31 December 3.0 6.5 The Groups share of the results of the joint venture, and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current Currency Loss for assets assets liabilities liabilities translation Income Expenses Tax theyear Trustonic Limited m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2014 2.6 4.6 4.2 0.3 0.3 3.2 6.9 0.2 3.5 At 31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 3.9 0.1 2.5 6.7 0.2 4.0 The Groups share of joint venture capital commitments amount to 0.2 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 0.1 million.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 117 Company balance sheet UK GAAP 2014 2013 At 31 December Note m m Fixed assets Investments 4 697.1 653.3 Current assets Debtors 5 0.5 1.5 Cash at bank and in hand 1.1 0.7 1.6 2.2 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 167.0 46.0 Net current liabilities 165.4 43.8 Total assets less current liabilities 531.7 609.5 Net assets 531.7 609.5 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7 Share premium account 8 24.9 18.1 Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4 profit and loss account 8 444.7 529.3 Total shareholders funds 9 531.7 609.5 The financial statements on pages 117 to 124 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: Simon Segars, Tim Score, Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 118 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK.
A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and reviewed by the Board of directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting policies, is set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition satisfies the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Cash ow statement The Company has not presented a separate cash ow statement.
The cash ows for the Company are included within the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany creditors and debtors, and cash.
Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Because the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required by FRS 29 are in note 17 of those financial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain employees of subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model or, where appropriate, a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equitysettled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on theCompanys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company operates SAYE schemes in the UK and an ESPP in the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries.
Options under the SAYE scheme were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004.
The Company does not have any employees and as such, in accordance with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries.
The Company recharges therelevant amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value ofits investments.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase its own shares and hold them as treasury shares.
These shares will be used to satisfy employee share awards.
In accordance with FRS 25, the Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing difference is expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 119 2 profit for the financial year As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent Companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent Companys loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was 0.1 million 2013: 1.5 million.
The Company has no employees: all three executive directors as at 31 December 2014 have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The emoluments of two of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report within this Annual Report.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 91.
3 Dividends paid and proposed 2014 2013 m m Final dividend paid of 3.60 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2013 2013: 2.83 pence in respect of 2012 50.7 39.5 Interim dividend paid of 2.52 pence 2013: 2.10 pence per ordinary share 35.4 29.4 86.1 68.9 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 4.5 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 64 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 24 April 2015, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
4 Investments The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 697.1 million at 31 December 2014 and 653.3 million at 31 December 2013.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc., and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company balance sheet at that time.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings m Cost and net book value At 1 January 2014 653.3 Additions Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 68.5 Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments 24.7 At 31 December 2014 697.1 Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed equal to the share-based payments has been recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its investments.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
120 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 4 Investments continued Interests in Group undertakings Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of Country Description nominal value Name of undertaking of registration of shares held of issued shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares 100% ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% ARM Technology Investments Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares 100% The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP.
The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 withAFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding companies.
The principal activity of ARM IP Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the Groups patents.
The principal activity of ARM Technology Investments Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the Groups investments.
5 Debtors 2014 2013 m m Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 1.2 Deferred tax assets 0.4 0.3 0.5 1.5 A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 166.4 45.7 Accruals 0.6 0.3 167.0 46.0 7 Called-up share capital 2014 2013 m m Authorised 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2013: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,412,160,836 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2013: 1,400,263,804 0.7 0.7 11,897,032 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of 6.8 million 2013: 19,495,454 shares for cash consideration of 5.9 million as a result of the exercise of share options at various times during the year.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 121 7 Called-up share capital continued Share options and awards The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 31 December 2014: Range of Weighted average exercise prices exercise price Latest date Year of grant Number of options of exercise SAYE 2010 116,896 1.948 1.948 31 January 2016 2011 37,863 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017 2012 598,547 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018 2013 184,824 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019 2014 636,939 7.344 7.344 31 January 2020 Total options 1,575,069 1.948-7.96 5.661 Number Year of grant of share awards Latest vest date RSU 2011 1,269,797 12 November 2015 2012 1,455,245 12 November 2016 2013 5,742,475 12 November 2017 2014 5,609,411 12 November 2018 14,076,928 French RSU 2011 73,274 12 November 2015 2012 63,742 12 November 2016 2013 308,853 12 November 2017 2014 179,480 12 November 2018 625,349 LTIP 2012 741,921 8 February 2015 2013 623,796 13 February 2016 2014 1,434,286 8 February 2017 2,800,003 DAB 2012 556,553 8 February 2015 2013 348,211 8 February 2016 2014 490,236 8 February 2017 1,395,000 Total awards 18,897,280 Total options and awards 20,472,349 122 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 7 Share option and awards continued Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a xed exercise price.
This scheme was replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 40.
Grants were made for the last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it has been replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances, and related items, please refer to note 21 in the consolidated financial statements.
8 Reserves Share premium Share option profit and loss account reserve reserve m m m At 1 January 2014 18.1 61.4 529.3 Purchase of treasury shares 66.9 Premium on issue of shares on exercise of share options 6.8 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 68.5 Loss attributable to shareholders 0.1 Equity dividends payable 86.1 At 31 December 2014 24.9 61.4 444.7 The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 123 8 Reserves continued The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable.
Within the profit and loss reserve are credits in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable.
In addition, the historic treatment of certain conditional shares has been changed.
As a result, 21 million of the opening profit and loss reserve has been reclassied from distributable to non-distributable.
At 31 December 2014, approximately 179 million of the profit and loss reserve is deemed distributable 2013: 324 million.
During 2014, the Company re-commenced its share buy back programme to supplement the payment of dividends to shareholders, purchasing 7.9 million shares at a cost of 66.9 million.
At 31 December 2014, all of these shares were still held by the Company.
Offset within the profit and loss reserve, therefore, is an amount of 66.9 million 2013: nil representing the cost of own shares held.
These shares are expected to be used for the benefit of the Groups employees and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units RSUs and conditional share awards in future periods.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based remuneration going forward.
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2014 2013 m m Loss attributable to shareholders 0.1 1.5 Equity dividends payable 86.1 68.9 86.2 70.4 New share capital issued 6.8 5.9 Purchase of treasury shares 66.9 Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 68.5 59.2 Net reduction to shareholders funds 77.8 5.3 Opening shareholders funds 609.5 614.8 Closing shareholders funds 531.7 609.5 124 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 10 Capital commitments The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
11 Financial commitments and contingencies At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases and no contingencies.
12 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
13 Post-balance sheet events After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2014 of 4.5 pence per share.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 125 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, ARM Holdings plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited ARM Holdings plcs financial statements comprise: the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is o therwise misleading.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
126 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 127 Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 February 2015 128 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Glossary Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARM7 9 11 ARM7 processor was one of ARMs first commercial products.
LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one big that delivers high-performance when needed with the other LITTLE running most of the time, enabling long battery-life.
Cortex ARMs latest family of processors.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Fabless A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips.
These chips are typically manufactured by a foundry.
semiconductor company For example MediaTek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor companies.
Intellectual Property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term for the products that are designs only, orare creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
Internet of Things IoT An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet either directly or indirectly via a smartphone.
They pay an upfront fee, which is reported as licence revenue.
LTE Long Term Evolution or 4G is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
Mali ARMs family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been or can be used in many applications.
Original Equipment An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
For example Apple, HTC and LG.
Manufacturer OEM Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARMs processor technology.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Processor Optimisation Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a processor on a specic foundrys Pack POP manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
System-on-Chip SoC An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip.
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 129 Group directory ARM Holdings plc Building 100, Rustat House ARM Israel 110 Fulbourn Road Clifton Road 3 Hagavish Street Cambridge CB1 9NJ Cambridge CB1 7EG Kfar Saba 44424 United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1223 400257 Israel Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Fax: 44 0 1223 400410 Tel: 972.9.
7644884 Geomerics Limited ARM Limited 110 Fulbourn Road ARM Norway AS Liberty House Cambridge CB1 9NJ Olav Tryggvassons gt.
39-41 Moorbridge Road United Kingdom 7011 Trondheim Maidenhead Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Norway Berkshire SL6 8LT Tel: 47 7318 7500 ARM France SAS United Kingdom Fax: 47 7351 3181 12 Avenue des Prs Tel: 44 0 1628 427700 BL 204 Montigny le ARM Sweden AB Fax: 44 0 1628 427701 Bretonneux Emdalavgen 6 Rockingham Court 78059 Saint Quentin en SE-223 69 Lund 152 Rockingham Street Yvelines, Cedex Sweden Sheffield S1 4EB France Tel: 46 46 31 31 00 United Kingdom Tel: 33 1 39 30 47 89 ARM Finland Oy Tel: 44 0 114 282 8000 Fax: 33 1 39 30 47 88 Konekuja 2 Fax: 44 0 114 282 8001 25 Alle Pierre Ziller Fl-90620 Oulu Blackburn Design Centre Le Paros Finland Belthorn House BP 70124 Tel: 358 10 387 8680 Walker Road F-06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex ARM Belgium Services BVBA Blackburn BB1 2QE France Mechelsesteenweg 277 United Kingdom Tel: 33 4 97 23 51 00 1800 Vilvoorde Tel: 44 0 1254 893900 Fax: 33 4 97 23 51 99 Belgium Fax: 44 0 1254 893901 Miniparc Polytec Tel: 32 2 3045598 4th Floor 60 Rue des Berges ARM Hungary Kft York House F-38000 Grenoble Budapest Manchester France Karolyi u.
Cheshire M2 3BB Tel: 33 4 56 38 47 00 1053 Hungary Tel: 44 0 161 234 9420 Fax: 33 4 56 38 47 01 Tel: 36 1 411 3100 CPC1, Capital Park ARM Germany GmbH Fax: 36 1 411 3101 Cambridge Road Bretonischer Ring 16 ARM Ireland Limited Fulbourn D-85630 Grasbrunn The Concourse Building, 5th oor Cambridgeshire CB21 5XE Germany Beacon Court, Sadyford Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Tel: 49 89 456 040-0 Dublin, Ireland Fax: 44 0 1223 400410 Fax: 49 89 456 040-19 Tel: 353 1 2178 400 Obrtna Cesta 18 Fax: 353 1 2178 401 SL-8310 2nd Floor, Lyrr Building phase 3 Sentjernej Mervue Industrial Estate Slovenia Galway, Ireland Tel: 353 91 337 917 130 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2014 Group directory continued ARM Inc. 2320 130th Avenue NE ARM Electronic Technology 150 Rose Orchard Way Suite 220 Shanghai Co. Ltd San Jose, CA 95134-1358 Bellevue, WA 98005 35F, Building B, United States United States New CHJ International Business Centre Tel: 1 408 576 1500 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 No.
391 Guiping Road Fax: 1 408 576 1501 Xuhui District ARM KK Shanghai 200233 The Park on Barton Creek Shinyokohama Square Bldg.
17F PR China 3711 S. Mopac Expressway 2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama Tel: 86 21 6154 9000 Building 1, Suite 400 Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi Fax: 86 21 6154 9100 Austin, TX 78746 Kanagawa 222-0033 United States Japan Room 602, Ideal Plaza Tel: 1 512 327 9249 Tel: 81 45 477 5260 58 West Road Fax: 1 512 314 1078 Fax: 81 45 477 5261 North 4th Ring Road Haidian District 5 East Street ARM Korea Limited Beijing 100080 Franklin, MA 02038 7th Floor Kyungdong Building PR China United States 4-4 Sunae-dong Tel: 86 10 8217 2000 Tel: 1 508 520 1905 Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si Fax: 86 10 8217 2010 Fax: 1 508 520 1907 Gyeonggi-do 463-020 South Korea Room 3501, Tower 3, Kerry Plaza 2 Venture Suite 470 Tel: 82 31 780 0200 No.
1-1, 4th Central Road Irvine, CA 92618 Fax: 82 31 780 0201 Futian District United States Shenzhen 518006 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 ARM Embedded PR China Fax: 1 949 623 8305 Technologies Pvt.
Limited Tel: 86 755 3290 0600 Bagmane World Technology Center SEZ 4965 Preston Park Blvd Fax: 86 755 3290 0610 Citrine Block, 5th and 6th Floor Suite 650 Marathahalli Outer Ring Road ARM T aiwan Limited Plano, TX 75093 Mahadevapura 8F, No.
Towers, Plot no: IA I Sector 16A United States Fax: 886 2 2627 1682 Film City, Noida 201301 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 Uttar Pradesh, India 7F, No.
2, Li-Hsin 5375 Mira Sorrento Place Tel.
91 120 3870100 6th Road Hsinchu Science Park Suite 540 Fax 91 120 3870299 Hsinchu City San Diego, CA 92121 30078 United States Taiwan R. O. C. Tel: 1 858 453 1900 Tel: 886 3 565 7100 Fax: 886 3 567 7128 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 131 Key shareholder information ARM Holdings plc is the Principal Legal advisers parent Company of the Group UK Law Company Number: 2548782 Slaughter and May Incorporated in England & Wales One Bunhill Row Domiciled in the UK London EC1Y 8YY Public company limited by shares United Kingdom Secretary and registered office US Law Patricia Alsop Davis Polk & Wardwell 110 Fulbourn Road 99 Gresham Street Cambridge CB1 9NJ London EC2V 7NG United Kingdom United Kingdom Independent auditors For more shareholder information  LLP please contact Ian Thornton at 1 Embankment Place investor.
com London WC2N 6RH Our website contains information for United Kingdom shareholders, including regular strategic, Stockbrokers business and financial updates.
com ir 2 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP United Kingdom Goldman Sachs Peterborough Court 133 Fleet Street London EC4A 2BB United Kingdom Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Shareholder Helpline 0871 384 2139 Depositary The Bank of New York Mellon 101 Barclays Street New York New York 10286 United States 132 Contact details If want to inform us of a change of address For all other enquires please contact one of or have lost your share certicate or have ARMs investor relations team: an enquiry about dividend payments please contact: Equiniti Shareholder Services Ian Thornton Laura Faid Aspect House Head of Investor Relations Investor Relations Associate Spencer Road ARM Holdings plc ARM Holdings plc Lancing 110 Fulbourn Road Liberty House BN99 6DA, UK Cambridge CB1 9NJ Moorbridge Road Phone: 0871 384 2139 Phone: 44 0 1223 400796 Maidenhead SL6 8LT www.
com Phil Sparks Investor Relations Manager Auditors statement ARM Holdings plc The auditors report on the financial 110 Fulbourn Road statements and the auditors statement Cambridge CB1 9NJ undersection 496of the Companies Phone: 44 0 1223 405566 Act onwhether the information given in Email: philip.
com Strategic Report and Directors report for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 is consistent with the Group financial statements were both unqualied and can befound on page 62 of the Governance andFinancial Report.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certied by the Forest Stewardship Council and contains 100% recycled waste.
The paper is Process Chlorine Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation.
This report was produced using the pureprint environmental print technology, aguaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM Limited.
