Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES NICKEL estimates as at 31 December 2014 NICKEL The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies for totals.
Reserve Life is reported from 2014 onwards and is aligned with the current approved Life of Mine Plan.
LOM Plan Total Inferred MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Reserve Life The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Life of Mine Plan.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
EXPLANATORY NOTES Barro Alto Ore Reserves: The decrease is due to increased haulage costs resulting in reallocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
This is partially offset by a change in the modelling method of dilution.
The Ore Reserves are derived from a mine plan which targets a smelter feed with an iron grade below 19 %Fe and a SiO MgO ratio less than or equal to 1.80.
2 Niquelndia Ore Reserves: The increase is primarily due to changes in economic assumptions which enables conversion of resources to reserves.
The Ore Reserves are derived from a mine plan which targets a smelter feed with an iron grade below 19 %Fe and a SiO MgO ratio less than or equal to 1.75.
2 Niquelndia Mine is adjacent to the Codemin Ferro-Nickel smelter which is fed with ore from Barro Alto and is blended with Niquelndia ore to achieve an appropriate smelter feed chemistry.
Barro Alto Saprolite Mineral Resources: The decrease is due to new information enabling improved resource classification of material close to the basal contact of the orebody which offsets the reallocation from Ore Reserves.
Transfer of material to a Low-MgO Stockpile also contributes to the decrease.
The Low-MgO material Measured: 7.2 Mt at 1.59 %Ni, excluded from the table is used for blending when the appropriate smelter feed chemistry can be achieved.
Mineral Resources are quoted above a 0.9 %Ni cut-off.
Barro Alto Ferruginous Laterite Mineral Resources: Material that is scheduled for stockpiling or has already been mined and stockpiled.
A surface stockpile of0.8 Mt at 1.36 %Ni Measured is excluded from the table.
Niquelndia Mineral Resources: The decrease is due to conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
Jacar: The Mineral Resources are reported within a pit shell developed for the Concept Study with a cut-off of 1.3 %Ni.
A minimum mineralised width of 1m must be present to allow material to be categorised as higher-grade Saprolite Mineral Resource.
The Saprolite Resources are a combination of higher-grade Mineral Resources 1.3 %Ni that are expected to feed a pyrometallurgical treatment facility and lower-grade Mineral Resources 1.3 0.9 %Ni that could be used to neutralise the acid in the proposed hydrometallurgical treatment of the Ferruginous Laterite material while still recovering Nickel in the process.
The Plano fide Aproveitamento Economico PAE is under consideration by Brazils Departamento Nacional fide Produo Mineral DNPM.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 187
