Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES MANGANESE estimates as at 31 December 2014 SAMANCOR MANGANESE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2012 and The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 as applicable.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources source: BHP Billiton.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Mining method: OP Open Pit, UG Underground.
Reserve Life The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Life of Mine Plan.
The tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
EXPLANATORY NOTES GEMCO Ore Reserves: The decrease is due to production.
Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 40%Mn with a minimum of 1m thickness.
Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective yields.
Mamatwan Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to production as well as the use of a new block model.
Ore Reserves for all zones are reported above acut-off of 35.0 %Mn.
Wessels Ore Reserves: The change is due to depletion from mining which is offset by the use of a new block model.
Ore Reserves for the Lower Body-HG ore type are reported above a cut-off of 45.0 %Mn and Lower Body-LG and Upper Body ore types are reported above a cut-off of 37.5 %Mn.
GEMCO Mineral Resources: New drilling information and the consequent updating of the resource model has allowed for the upgrading in resource confidence.
A 40 %Mn washed product cut-off is used to define the Mineral Resource.
The Premium Sands PC-02 Project Mineral Resource estimates above a zero cut-off grade Indicated: 12.8 Mt at 20.8 %Mn, Inferred: 2.3 Mt at 20.0 %Mn are excluded from the table.
Mamatwan Mineral Resources: The decrease is due to a new geological model being used which utilised implicit modelling techniques as well as a change in the estimation parameters.
A cut-off grade of 35.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the M, C and N Zones as well as within the XZone.
The Top Cut Resources are declared above a cut-off of 28.0 %Mn.
Wessels Mineral Resources: The decrease is due to a new geological model being used.
A cut-off grade of 45.0 %Mn is used to declare Mineral Resources within the Lower Body-HG ore type and 37.5 %Mn in the Lower Body-LG and Upper Body ore types.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 173 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2014 COAL The Coal Reserve and Coal Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2012 as a minimum standard as well as the South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 as applicable.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources.
Reserve Life is reported from 2014 onwards and is aligned with the current approved Life of Mine Plan.
For the multi-product operations, the ROM tonnes apply to each product.
The Saleable tonnes cannot be calculated directly from the ROM reserve tonnes using the air dried yields as presented since the difference in moisture content is not taken into account.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Saleable tonnes and should not be directly applied to the ROM tonnes.
Footnotes appear at the end of the section.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 175 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2014 Tonnes Coal Quality Coal Australia Operations 5 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2014 2013 2014 2013 5 5 6 6 Callide OC 100 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured 73.5 260.7 5,010 4,940 Indicated 188.7 265.1 4,850 4,810 Measured and Indicated 262.2 525.7 4,890 4,870 7 Inferred in LOM Plan 24.0 15.3 4,850 4,240 8 Inferred ex.
LOM Plan 4.2 3.4 7,000 6,720 Total Inferred 4.8 3.6 7,100 6,810 COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES.
176 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2014 Tonnes Coal Quality Coal Colombia Operations 5 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2014 2013 2014 2013 5 5 6 6 Cerrejn OC 33.3 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured 942.1 911.3 6,540 6,410 Indicated 161.2 162.9 6,570 6,340 Measured and Indicated 1,103.3 1,074.2 6,540 6,400 7 Inferred in LOM Plan 58.8 68.0 6,710 6,770 8 Inferred ex.
LOM Plan 199.8 184.1 4,790 4,910 Total Inferred 231.0 223.8 4,830 4,980 COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES.
LOM Plan 287.2 288.1 6,240 6,240 Total Inferred 299.2 298.5 6,240 6,240 COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Total MTIS.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Coal Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Coal Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 179 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2014 1 C oal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine ROM reserve tonnes basis, which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant.
Saleable reserve tonnes represents the estimated product tonnes.
Coal Reserves ROM and Saleable are on the applicable moisture basis.
2 ROM tonnes quoted on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnes on a Product moisture basis.
3 Yield ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the Feed to Plant tonnes.
The product yields ROM % for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classification.
4 The coal quality for Coal Reserves is quoted as either kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg or Crucible Swell Number CSN.
Kilo-calories per kilogram represent Calorific Value CV on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specifications of the individual supply contracts in the short-term and studies are underway to ensure long-term compliance.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
5 Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnes In-Situ MTIS basis in million tonnes, which are in addition to those resources that have been modified to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
6 The coal quality for Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg, representing Calorific Value CV rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
7 Inferred in LOM Plan refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves.
LOM Plan refers to Inferred Coal Resources outside the Life of Mine Plan but within the mine lease area.
Metallurgical Coking refers to a high-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in the steel industry: quality measured as Crucible Swell Number CSN.
Metallurgical Other refers to semi-soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection PCI or other general metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal: quality measured by calorific value CV.
Thermal Export refers to lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
Thermal Domestic refers to lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation: quality measured by calorific value CV.
Synfuel refers to a coal specifically for the domestic production of synthetic fuel and chemicals: quality measured by calorific value CV.
Capcoal comprises opencast operations at Lake Lindsay and Oak Park, an underground longwall operation at Grasstree and the Aquila Project each of which has a different JV structure.
The attributable shareholding is determined annually on the proportion of the ROM and Saleable tonnes produced by the individual pits, and thus may vary from one year to the next due to differing production schedules.
Jellinbah is not reported as Anglo Americans shareholding is below the internal threshold for reporting.
Peace River Coal consists of Trend and Roman Mountain mines.
The Belcourt Saxon project is a Joint Venture between Peace River Coal and Walter Energy Inc.
Estimates for the following operations were updated by depletion geological models not updated : Capcoal OC, Capcoal UG Grasstree, Drayton and Trend.
EXPLANATORY NOTES Australia Operations: Callide: Coal Reserves decrease primarily due to a reduction in the Boundary Hill South LOMP which is aligned to the most recent mining lease application additional buffer zone around the homestead required.
Proved Reserves have been downgraded to Probable due to contractual obligations see note 6 to the financial statements for further details.
Coal Resources decrease due to the rationalisation of upper and lower seam thicknesses, prevailing low commodity prices together with a change of mine design, offset by the removal of geological losses.
Dawson: Coal Reserves decrease due to prevailing low commodity price and a revision of the mine plan and mining methodology impacting on the Reserve Life.
Coal Resources decrease due to a revised mine plan and a change of mining methodology as well as the impact of a revised resource shell based on alower long-term commodity price forecast.
Drayton: Coal Reserves decrease due to production.
The current Reserve Life is limited, pending the New South Wales Planning Assessment Commissions PAC decision on revised mine plan to be submitted for the Drayton South project.
Foxleigh: Coal Reserves decrease primarily due to production.
The current approved Life of Mine Plan includes material amounts of Inferred Resources and additional low confidence material.
Moranbah North: Proved Coal Reserves have been downgraded to Probable due to a revision of the resource classification to include seismic data.
Coal Resources increase due to additional drilling information and the removal of geological loss.
Canada Operations: see note 6 to the financial statements for further details Trend: Proved Coal Reserves have been downgraded to Probable due to the mine being placed on care and maintenance at the end of 2014.
Roman Mountain: Proved Coal Reserves have been downgraded to Probable due to the mine being placed on care and maintenance at the end of 2014.
Colombia Operations: Cerrejn: Coal Reserves decrease due to production and revision of the LOM Plan.
South Africa Operations: Goedehoop: Coal Reserves decrease due to the reallocation of South Shaft Seam 4 blocks to resources due to revised economic parameters.
This was offset by the conversion of the Seam 1 blocks to Coal Reserves and optimisation of the layout.
Kleinkopje: Coal Reserves decrease primarily due to production.
Kriel: Coal Reserves decrease due to the reallocation of Mini-pits 1 and 2 to resources as a result of delays in the Pre-Feasibility studies affecting the Reserve Life.
Landau: Coal Reserves decrease primarily due to production, seam thickness changes as a result of weathering along the sub-crop and adjustments to geological losses.
New Denmark: Coal Resources decrease due to the conversion of Inferred Resource from additional drilling information and the exclusion of panels in dyke affected areas.
The Reserve Life is limited to 25 years as the current Mining Right expires in 2039.
Zibulo: Coal Reserves decrease primarily due to production and the reallocation to Coal Resources of low yielding blocks.
Australia Projects: Grosvenor: Proved Coal Reserves have been downgraded to Probable due to a revision of the Resource classification to include seismic data.
Coal Resources increase due to additional drilling and the removal of geological losses.
Teviot Brook: Coal Resources increase due to the removal of geological losses.
The Teviot Brook project area contains additional Coal Resources identified for extraction by the adjacent Moranbah North mine.
South Africa Projects: South Rand: Coal Resources increase due to additional drilling information which resulted in classification upgrades.
180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2014 Mineral Tenure: Callide: Mining Leases ML80121 and ML80186 are currently pending grant.
There is reasonable expectation that such rights will not be withheld.
Capcoal: Exploration Permit for Coal EPC2033 will expire in 2015 and an application for renewal will be submitted.
Dawson: Mining Lease ML5644 will expire in 2015 and an application for its renewal has been submitted.
Foxleigh: Grant of Mining Lease ML70310 is currently pending.
Cerrejn: Coal Reserves are estimated for the area defined by the current approved Mining Right which expires in 2033.
In order to exploit the Coal Resources, arenewal will be applied for at the appropriate time.
There is a reasonable expectation that such renewal will not be withheld.
Mafube: Application for conversion to a Mining Right at Nooitgedacht has been granted and executed in 2013.
A Water Use Licence for the pans at Springboklaagte has been granted late in 2014, the mining schedule will be updated.
New Largo: The New Largo Mining Right has been granted in August 2013: The execution of the mining right is awaited.
Audits related to the generation of the Coal Reserve estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2014 at the following operations and projects: Australia Callide South Africa Greenside, Isibonelo and Kriel in progress Audits related to the generation of the Coal Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2014 at the following operations and projects: Australia Callide Dunn Creek, Foxleigh Carlo Creek, Daggers Tip and Eagles Nest, Moranbah  Brook combined geological model Canada Roman Mountain South Africa Isibonelo and Zibulo in progress Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 181
