See note 2 of the 2013 Consolidated financial statements for details.
2 Comparatives for 2006 and 2005 were adjusted in the 2007 Annual Report to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations where applicable.
3 Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures is the Groups attributable share of revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of associates and joint ventures.
4 Underlying earnings is profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements, and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax and non-controlling interests.
5 Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
6 Underlying EBITDA interest cover is underlying EBITDA divided by net finance costs, excluding net foreign exchange gains and losses, unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities, financing special items and remeasurements, and including the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs, which in 2011 resulted in a net finance income and therefore the ratio is not applicable.
7 Total capital employed is net assets excluding net debt including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups and financial asset investments.
Comparatives are presented on a consistentbasis.
8 Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and equipment including related derivatives, and is now presented net of proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests in order to match more closely the way in which it is managed.
Comparatives have been re-presented to align with current year presentation.
9 Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups.
10 Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups divided by total capital.
Comparatives are presented on a consistent basis.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 167
