OTHER INFORMATION PERFORMANCE MEASURES Throughout this report a number of financial and non-financial measures Copper equivalent unit costs are used to assess the Groups performance.
The measures are defined Copper equivalent unit costs divide the gross costs associated with unit as follows: costs, by relevant copper equivalent volume.
Only own equity volumes and costs are considered.
Thabazimbi iron ore and domestic thermal Underlying EBIT coal production is excluded, as are operations not in commercial production.
Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and Both the copper equivalent production and copper equivalent unit cost remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates metrics have been adjusted for the 532 koz of platinum production lost due and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of associates and joint to the strikes at Platinum operations.
ventures is the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of Fatal-injury frequency rate FIFR associates and joint ventures.
Seenotes 3 and 5 to the financial statements FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all causes for underlying EBIT.
Underlying earnings Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries LTIs for both employees and consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
An LTI is a work related injury Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the routine shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements functions of his her job, on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and whether a scheduled workday or not.
Restricted work cases are therefore non-controlling interests.
See note 9 to the financial statements for the basis counted as LTIs.
of calculation of underlying earnings.
See note 6 to the financial statements Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR for the definition of special items and remeasurements.
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment Net debt cases for both employees and contractors per 200,000 hours.
Net debt includes related hedges and net debt in disposal groups.
New cases of occupational disease NCOD See note 23 to the financial statements.
NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, noise-induced Capital expenditure hearing loss, silicosis, coal-workers pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational asthma, hand arm and equipment, including related derivatives, and is now presented net of vibration syndrome, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes cancers and other occupational diseases.
direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests in order Total energy consumed to match more closely the way in which it is managed.
Comparatives have Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from been re-presented to align with current year presentation.
electricity purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy Underlying EBITDA from renewable fuels and is measured in million gigajoules GJ.
Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation Total new water consumed in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Groups attributable Total amount of water used is the total new or make-up water entering the share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT before depreciation operation and used for the operations primary operational activities and is and amortisation.
EBITDA, as presented in the net debt table on page 20 of 3 measured in million m. this report excludes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures EBITDA.
Real cash costs Real cash costs are the annual increase decrease in the Groups operating cash costs versus the prior year, excluding depreciation, the impact of Consumer Price Inflation CPI and foreign exchange, and is after capitalisation of stripping costs.
Copper equivalent production Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent tonnes, is a metric used to show changes in underlying production volume.
Each commoditys volumes are expressed as revenue, and then converted into a copper equivalent volume by dividing revenue by copper price per tonne.
The prices used for conversion by Anglo American are those from 30 June 2013.
When aggregated, these give the Groups production expressed in units of copper equivalent.
Production volumes considered include both equity and purchased volumes e. g. platinum concentrate from joint operation partners, as well as volumes from mines in pre-commercial production.
Thabazimbi iron ore and domestic thermal coal production is excluded.
202 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Other information OT OTH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA AT TION ION P ERFORMANCE MEASURES Attributable return on capital employed ROCE Attributable ROCE definitions: ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a companys capital investments.
It displays how effectively assets are generating profit for the size of invested capital and is calculated as underlying EBIT divided by capital employed.
Adjusted ROCE is calculated as underlying EBIT divided by adjusted capital employed.
Adjusted capital employed is net assets excluding net debt and financial asset investments, adjusted for remeasurements of a previously held equity interest as a result of business combinations and impairments incurred in the current year and reported since 10 December 2013.
Earnings and return impacts from such impairments due to reduced depreciation or amortisation expense are not taken into account.
Attributable ROCE is the return on the adjusted capital employed attributable to equity shareholders of Anglo American plc, and therefore excludes the portion of underlying EBIT and capital employed attributable to non-controlling interests in operations where Anglo American plc has control but does not hold 100% of the equity.
Joint ventures, joint operations and associates are included in their proportionate interest and in line with appropriate accounting treatment.
Attributable ROCE is based on realised prices and foreign exchange rates, and includes the below adjustments to capital employed.
Adjustments Structural adjustments for the fide Beers acquisition assuming ownership of 85% of fide Beers for 1 January 2012 and disposals from Anglo American Sur assuming ownership of 50.1% from the start of 2012 have been included The fide Beers fair value uplift which resulted from the revaluing upward of Anglo American plcs pre-existing 45% share in fide Beers is removed from opening 2012 capital employed onwards Impairments announced after 10 December 2013 are not removed from total capital employed.
Earnings and return impacts from such impairments due to reduced depreciation or amortisation expense are not taken into account The impairments and disposals which will be removed from opening capital employed from 2012 and onwards, on a post-tax basis, are: Pebble loss on exit Michiquillay impairment Barro Alto furnace write-down consequent on the rebuild of both furnaces not the impairment Khomanani, Khuseleka 2 and Union Mine North declines, plus 2012 Platinum project asset scrappings Isibonelo and Kleinkopje impairments.
The 2014 attributable EBIT of $3,429 million is the underlying EBIT attributable to equity shareholders of Anglo American plc.
Reconciliation of total capital employed to average attributable capital employed US$ billion 2014 2013 2012 Net assets 32 37 44 Less: financial asset investments 1 2 2 Add: net debt 13 11 9 1 Less: fide Beers fair value adjustment on 45% pre-existing stake 1 1 2 Total capital employed 43 45 48 Less: 2 Impairments taken in 2013 that had been announced before 10 December 2013 1 Add: 3 2013 impairments where no benefit taken for attributable ROCE purposes 1 1 4 2014 impairments where no benefit taken for attributable ROCE purposes 4 Total capital employed 47 46 46 Less: non-controlling interest capital employed 6 6 7 Closing attributable capital employed 41 40 40 Average attributable capital employed 40 40 38 1 Removal of the accounting fair value uplift adjustment on the Groups pre-existing 45% holding following acquisition of control on 16 August 2012.
2 2013 impairments and disposals post-tax reducing capital employed: Barro Alto furnace $0.2 billion, Platinum portfolio review $0.3 billion, Michiquillay $0.3 billion, Isibonelo and Kleinkopje $0.2 billion, disposal of Amap $0.2 billion and exit from Pebble $0.3 billion.
3 2013 impairments post-tax not removed from capital employed: Barro Alto impairment $0.5 billion and Foxleigh $0.2 billion.
4 2014 impairments post-tax not removed from capital employed: Minas-Rio $3.5 billion and Coal impairments $0.3 billion.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 203
