Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources O OR RE R E RE ES SE ER RV five ES A S AN ND M D MI IN NE ER RA AL R L RE ES SO OU UR RC CE ES S INTRODUCTION The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates presented in this To accommodate the various factors that are important in the development Annual Report are prepared in accordance with the Anglo American plc of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard approach is AA plc Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore generally used.
Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence Reserves standard.
This standard requires that the Australasian Code for associated with different parts of the Mineral Resource.
The confidence Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves that is assigned refers collectively to the reliability of the Grade and 2012 edition the JORC Code be used as a minimum standard.
This reliability includes consideration for the fidelity Anglo American plc subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa of the base data, the geological continuity predicated by the level of where public reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African understanding of the geology, the likely precision of the estimated grades Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral and understanding of grade variability, as well as various other factors Reserves the SAMREC Code.
The SAMREC Code is similar to the in particular density that may influence the confidence that can be JORC Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource terminology placed on the Mineral Resource.
Most business units have developed appearing in this section follows the definitions inboth the JORC 2012 commodity-specific scorecard-based approaches to the classification and SAMREC 2007 Edition as amended July 2009 Codes.
Ore Reserves of their Mineral Resources.
in the context of this Annual Report have the same meaning as Mineral The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as Reserves as defined by the SAMREC Code and the CIM Canadian at 31December 2014.
The figures in the tables have been rounded and, Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Definition Standards on Mineral if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences with stated results Resources and Mineral Reserves.
The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was prepared This section of the Annual Report presenting the Ore Reserve and byor under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the Mineral Resource estimates, should be considered the only valid source JORC or SAMREC Codes.
All Competent Persons have sufficient of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information for the Anglo American experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore and Anglo American Platinum Limited under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
All which publish their own independent annual reports.
the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some information in the form and context in which it appears.
The names of the Inferred Mineral Resources.
Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Competent Persons are lodged with the Anglo American plc Company Mine Plan LOM Plan are described as Inferred in LOM Plan separately Secretary and listed in the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2014 from the remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as Inferred along with their affiliation and years of relevant experience.
These resources are declared without Anglo American Group companies are subject to a comprehensive application of any modifying factors.
Reserve Life reflects the scheduled programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of Ore extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates.
The reviews are conducted by Life of Mine Plan.
suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Anglo American The Attributable Percentage that Anglo American holds in each operation Group, or by independent consultants.
The frequency and depth of the and project is presented beside the name of each entity.
Operations and reviews is a function of the perceived risks and or uncertainties associated projects which fall below the internal threshold for reporting 25% with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource.
The overall value of attributable interest are excluded from the Ore Reserves and Mineral the entity and time that has lapsed since an independent third-party review Resources estimates.
Those operations projects that were subjected to independent third-party reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development to the tables.
Act, Number 28 of 2002 MPRDA was implemented on 1 May 2004 subsequently amended by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources The JORC and SAMREC Codes require due consideration of reasonable Development Amendment Act 49 of 2008 effectively transferred prospects for eventual economic extraction for Mineral Resource custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State.
These include long-range commodity price forecasts which are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future A Prospecting Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA that is valid for supply and demand and long-term economic outlooks.
The calculation up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of three years.
of Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are based on long-term A Mining Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA and is valid for prices determined at the beginning of the second quarter each year.
Ore up to 30 years, with the possibility of a further extension of 30 years.
The Reserves are dynamic and are more likely to be affected by fluctuations in Minister of Mineral Resources will grant a renewal of the Mining Right if the the prices of commodities, uncertainties in production costs, processing terms and conditions of the Mining Right have been complied with and the costs and other mining, infrastructure, legal, environmental, social and applicant is not in contravention of any relevant provisions of the MPRDA.
governmental factors which may impact the financial condition and In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement for prospects of the Group.
Mineral Resource estimates also change and South African assets, Anglo American plc has adopted the following tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights and Mining Rights: understanding of the deposit and secondly bythe conversion to Ore Reserves.
Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Resources are additional Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been to exclusive of those resources converted to Ore Reserves and are submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant regulatory reported on a dry tonnes basis.
authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources have been included in the statement.
The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by the appointed Competent or Qualified Persons.
The choice of appropriate Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have been category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, distribution and initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject of quality of geoscientific information available and the level of confidence in ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities these data.
and where Anglo American plc has reasonable expectations that the Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, therelevant Mineral Resources have been included in the statement any associated The summary of Estimated Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary comments appear in the footnotes.
are contained in the separate Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Report 2014 which is available in the Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 169 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2014 KUMBA IRON ORE The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with The South African Code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves The SAMREC Code, 2007 Edition as amended July 2009.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Reserve Life is reported from 2014 onwards and is aligned with the current approved Life of Mine Plan.
Anglo American plcs interest in Kumba Iron Ore Limited is 69.7%.
Detailed information appears in the Kumba Iron Ore Limited Annual Report.
LOM Plan 4.6 4.6 62.9 62.9 Total Inferred 6.0 6.2 62.1 62.1 MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
Reserve Life The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the approved Life of Mine Plan.
The tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
The Mineral Resources are constrained by a resource pit shell, which defines the spatial limits of eventual economic extraction.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2014 at Thabazimbi.
170 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2014 EXPLANATORY NOTES Kolomela Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to production.
Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 42.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
Sishen Ore Reserves: In addition to production, the decrease is due to an alignment of the Ore Reserve economic assumptions with budget parameters as well as a strategic redesign of the Sishen Mine waste pushback strategy in 2014 in order to achieve a lower cost lower stripping ratio Life of Mine Plan solution.
A minor decrease in Ore Reserves due to the re-allocation of a portion of the conglomeratic ore body to Inferred Mineral Resource in accordance with the Kumba Iron Ore Mineral Resource Classification Guideline.
Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
Thabazimbi Ore Reserves: The decrease is primarily due to production.
The Thabazimbi Mine is subject to a Life of Mine Plan review, which is currently ongoing.
As a result, it was considered prudent to revert to the 2013 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources to retain alignment in terms of public reporting.
The 2014 Ore Reserve Statement for Thabazimbi Mine is therefore based on the 2013 Ore Reserves, depleted with the 2014 production.
Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 54.3 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
Kolomela Mineral Resources: The increase is due to new information that results in the initial declaration of resources from Kapstevel South orebody and updated geological models for Leeuwfontein.
Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 50.0 %Fe.
Sishen Mineral Resources: The increase is primarily due to incorporation of the previous Stockpile material Measured Resources: 7.3 Mt at 53.1 %Fe and Indicated Resources: 22.8 Mt at 50.8 %Fe into the Mineral Resources as these are now considered as part of the modifying factors and therefore not reported separately.
Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 40.0 %Fe.
Thabazimbi Mineral Resources: The increase is due to incorporation of the previous Stockpile material into the Mineral Resources as these are now considered as part of the modifying factors and therefore not reported separately.
The 2014 Resource Statement for Thabazimbi Mine is based on the 2013 Mineral Resources aligned with the decision to revert back to the 2013 Ore Reserves, depleted with the 2014 production.
Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 55.0 %Fe.
Zandrivierspoort: The Zandrivierspoort Project Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 21.7 %Fe.
Mineral Tenure Sishen: On 12 December 2013 the Constitutional Court of South Africa ruled that the Sishen Iron Ore Company SIOC had a 78.6% undivided share of the Sishen mining right.
The Constitutional Court ruled further that, based on the provisions of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act MPRDA, only SIOC can apply for and be granted the residual 21.4% undivided share of the Sishen Mining Right.
The grant of the Mining Right may be made subject to such conditions considered by the Minister of Mineral Resources to be appropriate.
SIOC has lodged applications to be granted the residual 21.4% undivided share of the Sishen Mining Right.
Kumba Iron Ore is actively continuing its engagement with the South African Department of Mineral Resources DMR in order to finalise the grant of the residual right.
Based on the outcome of the Constitutional Court ruling, SIOC has a reasonable expectation for the grant of the 21.4% Mining Right and therefore declares 100% ofthe Sishen Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources in terms of the provisions of the SAMREC Code.
SIOC derives 100% of the economic benefit of the material extracted from the Sishen Mine, and is not required to account to any other entity for the value thus derived.
SIOC is mining lawfully in accordance with its approved Mine Works Programme.
SIOC has submitted its applications to be granted the 21.4% Mining Right.
At the time of reporting, the Mining Right had not yet been granted.
In 2013, the attributable percentage was based on the Mining Rights held.
For 2014, the attributable percentage is based on the full economic benefit toSishen.
A Section 102 application to incorporate the old Transnet railway properties transecting the mining area from north to south was granted by the DMR on 28 February 2014.
This resulted in Probable Reserves being upgraded back to Proved Reserves.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 171 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES IRON ORE estimates as at 31 December 2014 IRON ORE BRAZIL The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2012 as a minimum standard.
ROM Tonnes Grade Saleable Product Iron Ore Brazil Operations Reserve ORE RESERVES Attributable % Life Classification 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Serra do Sapo OP 100 45 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe Mt %Fe Mt %Fe Friable Itabirite and Hematite Proved Probable 1,414.6 1,385.3 37.9 38.8 690 67.5 686 67.5 Total 1,414.6 1,385.3 37.9 38.8 690 67.5 686 67.5 Itabirite Proved Probable 1,384.3 30.9 534 67.5 Total 1,384.3 30.9 534 67.5 Tonnes Grade Iron Ore Brazil Operations MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classification 2014 2013 2014 2013 Serra do Sapo OP 100 Mt Mt %Fe %Fe Friable Itabirite and Hematite Measured 192.7 187.7 31.8 31.8 Indicated 207.0 229.4 33.6 33.3 Measured and Indicated 399.7 417.1 32.7 32.6 Inferred in LOM Plan 68.6 50.4 37.9 38.4 Inferred ex.
LOM Plan 402.2 201.1 31.1 31.2 Total Inferred 581.0 201.1 31.1 31.2 MINERAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO ORE RESERVES.
The ROM tonnage is quoted as dry metric tonnes and abbreviated as Mt for million tonnes.
EXPLANATORY NOTES Minas-Rio: Minas-Rio comprises the Serra do Sapo operation and the Itapanhoacanga project.
Metallurgical test work confirms that the Compact Itabirite at Serra do Sapo is softer than Compact Itabirite mined in the Carajs and Iron Quadrangle areas.
From 2014 onwards at Serra do Sapo, Compact Itabirite will be referred to as Itabirite and Semi-Compact Itabirite as Semi-Friable Itabirite.
Serra do Sapo Ore Reserves: Ore Reserves are reported above a cut-off of 25.0 %Fe inclusive of dilution.
ROM Tonnes and grades are on a dry basis.
Saleable Product tonnes are on a wet basis average moisture content is 8.0 wt% of the wet mass with quality stated on a dry basis.
The increase in Friable Itabirite and Hematite is due to new drilling information and updated economic assumptions.
Itabirite Ore Reserves are declared and included in the mine plan for the first time due to metallurgical studies confirming the viability of processing this ore type and results in an increase in the Reserve Life.
The Ore Reserves exclude 1.9Mt at 37.9 %Fe of material stockpiled during pre-stripping operations.
Serra do Sapo Mineral Resources: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 25.0 %Fe.
In-situ tonnes and grade are on a dry basis.
Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Friable Itabirite, High Alumina Friable Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Canga.
The decrease in Itabirite Mineral Resources is primarily due to coversion of resources to reserves which is partially offset by new drilling information which indicates additional resources in the Central domain.
Itapanhoacanga: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 25.0 %Fe.
Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite, Soft Hematite and Hard Hematite Serro: Mineral Resources are reported above a cut-off of 25.0 %Fe.
Friable Itabirite and Hematite includes Friable Itabirite, Semi-Compact Itabirite and Hard Hematite.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2014 at Serra do Sapo.
Audits related to the generation of the Mineral Resource estimates were carried out by independent consultants during 2014 at Itapanhoacanga and Serro.
172 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
