Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Our Annual Report and Accounts: a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group.
Board of Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
In addition, by law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cautionary statement All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of SpiraxSarco Engineering plc and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forwardlooking statements.
These forwardlooking statements, which reflect managements assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of SpiraxSarco Engineering plc or the markets and economies in which we operate to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forwardlooking statements.
SpiraxSarco Engineering plc and its Directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
It should be noted that schedule 10A contains limits on the liability of the Directors of SpiraxSarco Engineering plc so that their liability is solely to SpiraxSarco Engineering plc.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face The Annual Report and Accounts and Financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 4th March 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: David Meredith Finance Director 102 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements John Senior David Meredith Group Financial Controller Finance Director Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 4.
