Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The consolidated financial statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 11 March 2015.
The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy.
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Restatement for prior period corrections Management have identified several misstatements related to the information presented within the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and have corrected these as noted below: Amortisation of acquired intangibles note 13 intangible assets We have corrected the note disclosure for intangible assets for the 2013 prior period in note 13.
The effect of the correction was to increase the charge for the year by 163,000 from 2,212,000 to 2,375,000 and to decrease the foreign currency adjustment by the same amount from 287,000 to 124,000 within the comparative note disclosure only.
Return of Value consolidated statement of changes in equity An element of the 2013 Return of Value transaction was accounted for in error.
This has been corrected in the current period with the entry increasing issued capital by 6,000 and decreasing the capital redemption reserves by the same amount.
Historical differences within the own shares held reserve have been identified and corrected during 2014 resulting in a debit to the own shares held reserve of 695,000 and a credit to retained earnings of 405,000.
Both of these corrections are contained within the line item prior period corrections within the statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Own shares held consolidated cash flow statement and consolidated statement of changes in equity An amount paid for own shares of 1,492,319 was incorrectly netted against other line items in both the consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2013.
The relevant comparative information for both statements has been restated with the amount appearing on a separate purchase of own shares line in both comparative statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using existing GAAP in each country of operation.
Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group no longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Except as noted below, adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
They may however give rise to additional disclosures.
The other pronouncements which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group: Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities amendments to IAS 32 These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and is applied retrospectively.
These amendments have no impact on the Group, since none of the entities in the Group has any offsetting arrangements.
Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting amendments to IAS 39 These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required.
These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has not novated 84 its derivatives during the current or prior periods.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle In the 2010-2012 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued seven amendments to six standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendment to IFRS 13 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies in the basis for conclusions that short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
This amendment to IFRS 13 has no impact on the Group.
Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle In the 2011-2013 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued four amendments to four standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The amendment to IFRS 1 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that an entity may choose to apply either a current standard or a new standard that is not yet mandatory, but permits early application, provided either standard is applied consistently throughout the periods presented in the entitys first IFRS financial statements.
This amendment to IFRS 1 has no impact on the Group, since the Group is an existing IFRS preparer.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have not been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in periods beginning after 31 December 2014.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2017 IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments relating to Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
IAS 27 Amendments relating to Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments relating to Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture.
IFRS 11 Amendments relating to Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2019 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting and derecognition.
It is not anticipated that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups accounts, however Managements assessment of the impact and accepted best practice is ongoing.
Certain of these standards and interpretations will, when adopted, require addition to or amendment of disclosures in the accounts.
Critical judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires Management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
Estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and other non-current assets Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets and other non-current assets are impaired requires an estimation of their recoverable amount which is the higher of either the value in use to the cash-generating units CGU to which these assets belong or the fair value less costs of disposal.
The value in use calculation requires appropriate forecasts of future cash flows expected to arise for the CGU and the selection of suitable discount rates and future growth rates.
The Group reviews impairment of these assets at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if there is an indicator of impairment.
Further detail on the impairment testing of intangible assets, goodwill and non-current assets is disclosed in note 14.
Provisions Provisions are established by the Group based on Managements assessment of relevant information and advice available at the time of preparing the Financial Statements.
Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future events.
Where outcomes differ from Managements expectations, differences from the amount initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the outcome is determined.
As disclosed in note 23, the Groups provisions principally relate to obligations arising from onerous lease property provisions, customer contract provisions, restructuring provisions and retirement benefit obligations.
Further details of specific estimates used in arriving at these provisions are provided in the note.
Providing for doubtful debts The Group provides services and equipment to business and public sector customers, mainly on credit terms.
Management know that certain debts due to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such factors as the current state of the economy, particular industry issues and the individual credit risk assessed against each customer.
Refer to note 24 for further details on credit risk.
The level of overdue outstanding debt in France has required Management to increase its estimate of debt that may not be collected.
Some of the debt is of considerable age and has not been collected due to legacy issues related to the move to the SAP ERP platform in 2013 and subsequently to the Finance Shared Service Centre environment in 2014.
Management reviews the overdue debt position weekly and estimates the provision required accordingly.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 17.
85 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
To determine the future taxable profits, reference is made to the latest available profit forecasts.
Where the temporary differences are related to losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the deferred tax asset in Germany are derived from the Groups best estimation, as described above.
Recognition therefore involves estimates regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits resulted in the derecognition of the French deferred tax asset in 2013.
In arriving at the current and deferred tax liability the Group has taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities.
Liabilities have been calculated based on Managements assessment of relevant information and advice.
Where outcomes differ from the amounts initially recorded, such differences impact current and deferred tax amounts in the period the outcome is determined.
Further details on the deferred tax balances held at 31 December 2014 are disclosed in note 9d.
Revenue recognition For a limited number of Support and Managed Services contracts, an estimate of the total contract costs and total contract revenues is required to determine the stage of completion.
The Group accounts for these contracts using the  units of work method, recognising revenue and direct costs as performance on the contract progresses through the recorded utilisation of our services.
This method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract and may involve estimates on the scope of services required for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations.
These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technical risks, and other judgements.
Under the  method, changes in estimates may lead to an increase or decrease of revenue recognised at a point in time.
When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration.
Critical Judgements Judgements made by Management in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Exceptional items Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside the Groups adjusted results.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Management have considered the materiality, infrequency and nature of the French Social Plan against the requirements and guidance provided by IAS 1, our Group accounting policies and recent press releases from the FRC.
Management judged that classifying the scale and transformative nature of the restructuring programme in France and the subsequent expense related to the French Social Plan as an exceptional item in the income statement provides the best guidance as to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group in accordance with the policy above.
During 2014 the reversal of the unutilised portion of our onerous Managed Services customer contracts provision was classified as an exceptional item as the original expense related to the provision was classified as such in 2013.
Asset held for sale Management made a judgement in deciding that the sale of its subsidiary, R. D. Trading Limited should not be accounted for as an asset held for sale under the Groups relevant accounting policy disclosed later in this note.
Management considered the timeline of events from the unsolicited enquiry from the purchaser near the end of the reporting period through to the rapid conclusion of the sale process on 2 February 2015, among other factors, when making the judgement.
Management had neither a programme for disposal of the asset or a plan to market the subsidiary for sale to any other party during 2014 or 2015.
The sale process began following the purchasers opportunistic approach in late 2014.
Management did not consider the sale of the subsidiary probable at the end of the reporting period, based on the stage of discussions with the purchaser.
86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings 25-50 years Short leasehold improvements shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease Fixtures and fittings Head office 5-15 years Other shorter of 7 years and period to expiry of lease Office machinery, computer hardware 2-15 years Motor vehicles 3 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Leases Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Intangible assets Software and software licences Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware.
These assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Amortisation is calculated on straight-line basis over the estimated useful life.
Currently software is amortised over four years.
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal use are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business are carried initially at fair value.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows: Existing customer contracts 5 years Existing customer relationships 10 years Tools and technology 7 years The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised using the purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by Management, usually at business segment level or statutory company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
87 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where an asset does not have independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the asset or cash-generating unit.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or cash-generating units recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised.
The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Investment in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Group income statement reflects the share of the associates results after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised in other comprehensive income of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any such change in the Group statement of other comprehensive income.
Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised at their fair value which initially equates to the consideration given plus directly attributable transaction costs associated with the investment.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described in each category below.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at their original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise deposits held for a term of greater than three months from the date of deposit and which is not available to the Group on demand.
Subsequent to initial measurement, current asset investments are measured at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as described in each category below.
Interest-bearing borrowings All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations affecting cash flows from forecasted transactions and unrecognised firm commitments.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instruments fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows and are addressed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they are designated.
Forward contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Forward contracts are recorded as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
Cash flow hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement in administrative expenses.
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to the Income Statement, within administrative expenses, when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial expense is recognised.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement within administrative expenses.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income remains in other comprehensive income until after the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects profit or loss.
Any other gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on forward contracts are taken directly to administrative expenses in the income statement.
Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the material overseas subsidiaries are Euro, US Dollar US$, South African Rand ZAR and Swiss Franc CHF.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date and their Income Statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
89 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Customer contract provisions Contractual Services revenue includes revenue from Support Services and Managed Services contracts.
On a limited number of these contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract.
If the performance of one of these limited number of contracts results in a margin that was less than anticipated at the time that it was agreed then the future financial performance of that contract will be reviewed in detail.
If, after further financial analysis, the full financial consequence of the contract can be reliably estimated, and it is determined that the contract is potentially loss-making, then the best estimate of the losses expected to be incurred until the end of the contract will be provided for.
The Group has elected to apply IAS 11 in its assessment of whether contracts are considered onerous and in subsequently estimating the provision as IAS 18 considers the requirements of IAS 11 are generally applicable to the recognition of revenue and the associated expenses for a transaction involving the rendering of services.
A contract that is accounted for under IAS 11 that is considered potentially onerous is assessed according to the recognition of expected losses in IAS 11 ahead of the onerous contract guidance in IAS 37 and considers total estimated costs i. e. directly attributable variable costs and fixed allocated costs as included in the assessment of whether the contract is onerous or not and in the measurement of the provision.
Restructuring provisions The Group recognises a restructuring provision when there is a programme planned and controlled by Management that materially changes the scope of the business or the manner in which it is conducted.
Further to the Groups general provision recognition policy, a restructuring provision is only considered when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring identifying, as a minimum, the business or part of the business concerned: the principal locations affected: the location, function and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services: the expenditures that will be undertaken and when the plan will be implemented.
The Group will only recognise a specific restructuring provision once a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The Group only includes incremental costs associated directly with the restructuring within the restructuring provisions such as employee termination benefits that relate directly to the restructuring and consulting fees that relate directly to the restructuring.
The Group specifically excludes from recognition in a restructuring provision any costs associated with ongoing activities such as the costs of training or relocating staff that are redeployed within the business rather than retrenched and costs for employees who continue to be employed in ongoing operations, regardless of the status of these operations post-restructure.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme available to all UK employees.
Contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
There are no other material pension schemes within the Groups overseas operations.
The Group has an obligation to make a one-off payment to French employees upon retirement, the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC.
French employment law requires that a company pays employees a one-time contribution when and only when the employee leaves the company for retirement at the mandatory age.
This is a legal requirement for all businesses who incur the obligation upon departure, due to retirement, of an employee.
Typically the retirement benefit is based on length of service of the employee and his or her salary at retirement.
The amount is set via a legal minimum but the retirement premiums can be improved by the collective agreement or employment contract in some cases.
In Computacenter France, the payment is based on accrued service and ranges from 1 month of salary after 5 years service to 9.4 months of salary after 47 years of service.
If the employee leaves voluntarily at any point before retirement, all liability is extinguished and any accrued service is not transferred to any new employment.
Previously, due to the lack of materiality of the obligation, Management had made an accrual through the income statement and expensed any payments as they occurred.
This reporting period Management has recorded the previously unrecognised unrealised actuarial losses through reserves in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and reclassified the obligation, in the current year, as a provision and will continue to account for this obligation according to IAS 19 revised in future periods.
Due to the materiality of the obligation, Management considers no further disclosures are relevant at this time.
90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Sales tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and trade receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts and rebates given to customers, VAT and other sales tax or duty.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Supply Chain Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on dispatch of goods.
Professional Services Revenue is recognised when receivable under a contract following delivery of a service or in line with the stage of work completed.
The stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract and unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued income.
If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred.
A provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
Contractual Services Contractual Services revenue includes revenue from Support Services and Managed Services contracts, and is recognised as services are delivered.
Unrecognised contracted revenue is included as deferred income in the balance sheet.
Amounts invoiced relating to more than one period are deferred and recognised over their relevant life.
Where a contract contains several elements, the individual elements are accounted for separately where appropriate and revenue thereon is measured at the fair value of the consideration received.
On a limited number of Contractual Services contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract.
Unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued income.
If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is restricted to the extent that costs have been incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Bid and set-up costs The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and is frequently involved in contract bids with multiple competitors with the outcome usually unknown until the contract is awarded and signed.
Any bid costs incurred by the Groups Central Bid Management Engines are not capitalised or charged to the contract, but instead directly charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as they are incurred.
These costs associated with bids are not separately identifiable nor can they be measured reliably as the Groups internal bid teams work across multiple bids at any one time.
Further, it cannot be assessed as probable that the contract will be obtained until the tender process has completed and the contract has been awarded.
Finance income Income is recognised as interest accrues.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Operating lease income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
91 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including Executive Directors of the Group can receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the award at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by utilising an appropriate valuation model, further details of which are given in note 27.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions as none of the conditions set are market-related ones.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The Income Statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
As the schemes do not include any marketrelated performance conditions, no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share see note 10.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as investment in own shares and are recorded at cost as a deduction from equity see note 26.
Own shares held Computacenter plc shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders equity as own shares held and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed, are summarised in note 24.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified separately as held for sale in the Balance Sheet when their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is met only when: The sale is highly probable: The asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition: Management have an approved programme to market and sell the asset or an approved plan for disposal: and Management is committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held for sale and expected to be included as part of the sale transaction are correspondingly also classified separately.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not subject to depreciation or amortisation.
The net assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is considered to be a component of the Group that has either been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, which represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into geographical segments, with each segment determined by the location of the Groups assets and operations.
The Groups business in each geography is managed separately and held in separate statutory entities.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the below reportable operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its geographical segments separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on adjusted operating profit or loss which is measured differently from operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted operating profit or loss takes account of the interest paid on customer specific financing CSF which Management consider to be a cost of sale.
Excluded from adjusted operating profit is the amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items as Management do not consider these items when reviewing the underlying performance of a segment.
For the purposes of this disclosure a single customer is considered to be a group of entities known to be under common control.
This customer consists of entities under control of the UK Government, and includes the Groups revenues with central government, local government and certain government controlled banking institutions.
94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4 Group operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2014 2013 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the financial statements 419 437 Audit of subsidiaries 64 64 Total audit fees 483 501 Audit related assurance services 42 41 Taxation compliance services 30 34 Taxation advisory services 43 67 Total non-audit services 115 142 Total fees 598 643 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 20,398 22,735 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 676 238 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1 745 Impairment of acquired intangibles 12,195 Amortisation of software 10,807 7,464 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,868 2,375 Net foreign currency differences 456 271 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 1,902,479 1,878,999 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 53,924 32,768 5 Exceptional items 2014 2013 000 000 Operating profit Redundancy and other restructuring costs 9,128 4,291 Onerous contracts 1,540 15,739 Impairment of acquired intangible assets 12,195 Impairment of investment in associate 539 Services contracts re-valuation 4,000 7,588 28,764 Income tax Tax on onerous contracts included in operating profit 185 1,889 Tax on impairment of acquired intangible assets 1,014 Tax on exceptional items included in operating profit 700 Total tax on exceptional items 185 2,203 Exceptional tax items Deferred tax asset in respect of France 2,184 Tax credit in relation to prior year R&D claim 1,695 185 1,714 Exceptional items after taxation 7,773 27,050 Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: Computacenter France has incurred an exceptional charge of 9.1 million relating to the estimated costs of a comprehensive restructuring plan with the Groups French business.
The substantial restructuring exercise currently underway aims to reduce the cost base, improve the competitiveness and therefore improve the profitability of the Groups French business.
95 5 Exceptional items continued In line with our accounting policy, Management has elected under IAS 1 to report this provision under the heading of Exceptional Items due to the materiality, infrequency and nature of the restructuring plan.
This election provides the best guidance to users of our external reporting as to the underlying profitability trends within the Group and to present the results of the Group in a way that is fair, balanced and understandable.
Excluding the costs related to the restructuring plan is consistent with treatments of similar costs in prior periods and presents the adjusted profit before tax in a way that enables users to better assess the quality of the Groups underlying profitability.
The Groups three onerous contracts have performed within the provisions previously taken, and one of these contracts came to an end as of 30 September 2014.
A related legal dispute with a sub-contractor on one of these contracts, that was previously provided for, has now been resolved.
Given these factors and ongoing operational improvements within two remaining contracts, Management has revised its estimates of the losses to be incurred.
On this basis the Group has released 1.5 million of the provision.
As the onerous contracts were previously treated as an exceptional item on recognition, the write back of the provision has also been released as an exceptional item.
Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items: In Germany three managed service contracts were identified as onerous.
A 2.1 million provision was made in December 2012 for these contracts.
A further provision for estimated future losses of 7.5 million was held as at December 2013.
This further provision was classified as an exceptional item due to its size and nature and the 2012 result was restated to be consistent.
Included within the German segment results in 2012 and 2013 were losses incurred in relation to these onerous contracts.
In order to provide a clearer understanding of the performance of the remainder of the business, losses previously recognised within the German operating result for these contracts were reclassified within exceptional items.
In 2012 trading losses of 5.9 million were incurred on revenues of 15.4 million.
In 2013 trading losses of 8.2 million were incurred on turnover of 23.0 million.
The deterioration in the performance of Computacenter France led to an assessment of their non-current assets.
It was concluded that the forecasted cash flows for the French cash generating unit did not fully support the value of non-current assets in the business.
This resulted in an impairment of 12.2 million of intangible assets in the French cash generating unit.
During 2013 Computacenter Germany continued its programme, from late 2012, to reduce its net operating expenses.
As a result, redundancy costs of 3.1 million were incurred during the year, which due to their size and nature were included within exceptional items.
Similarly, Computacenter France begun a programme to also reduce its SG&A and restructure its business and senior management in line with the Group Operating Model.
Redundancy related expenses of 1.2 million were included in the 2013 result.
Due to the continued adverse performance of our equity accounted associate, ICS Solutions Limited, we decided to fully impair the 0.5 million recorded value of our investment.
As part of our normal processes, we carried out a detailed evaluation of other long-term Services contracts across the Group.
As a result of this ongoing evaluation, Management calculated that a positive change in certain estimates resulted in a one-off gain of 4.0 million.
Due to the nature of the change in the estimates, and the size of the gain, it was decided to highlight this as an exceptional item.
This is consistent with the treatment of the previously identified onerous contracts and provided a fairer and more balanced understanding of our underlying growth in profitability.
During 2013 a deferred tax asset relating to losses carried forward in France was written off for 2.2 million.
Tax relief from a prior period Research and Development project spend on the Group ERP platforms resulted in a prior year adjustment credited in the statutory tax charge for year.
Due to the timing, materiality and one-off nature of this relief, it was decided to classify it as an exceptional tax item.
6 Staff costs and Directors emoluments 2014 2013 000 000 Wages and salaries 542,594 544,954 Social security costs 84,682 85,908 Share-based payments 2,810 1,070 Pension costs 20,595 20,069 651,907 652,001 Share-based payments arise from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 2014 2013 No.
UK 5,770 5,385 Germany 5,044 5,093 France 1,858 1,856 Belgium 287 257 12,959 12,591 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 Finance income 2014 2013 000 000 Bank interest receivable 1,510 1,340 Other interest received 105 11 1,615 1,351 8 Finance costs 2014 2013 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 969 627 Finance charges payable on customer specific financing 570 787 Other interest 305 438 1,844 1,852 9 Income tax a Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2014 2013 000 000 Tax charged in the income statement Current income tax UK corporation tax operating result 17,048 14,395 exceptional items 891 Total UK corporation tax 17,048 13,504 Foreign tax operating result 5,820 5,031 exceptional items 459 1,994 Total foreign tax 5,361 3,037 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 191 509 Total current income tax 22,600 16,032 Deferred tax Operating result origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,340 139 adjustments in respect of prior periods 604 25 Exceptional items 644 1,171 Total deferred tax 1,300 1,335 Tax charge in the income statement 21,300 17,367 97 9 Income tax continued b Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2014 2013 000 000 Accounting profit before income tax 76,418 50,525 At the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 21.49 per cent 2013: 23.25 per cent 16,422 11,747 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,173 802 Non-deductible element of share-based payment charge 60 54 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous periods 413 485 Higher tax on overseas earnings 1,417 1,511 Other differences 688 766 Effect of changes in tax rate on deferred tax 262 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 3,238 3,169 Exceptional changes in recoverable amounts of deferred tax assets 2,185 Tax on impairment of acquired intangible assets 1,014 Overseas tax not based on earnings 1,345 1,554 Tax credit in relation to prior year R&D claim 1,695 Deferred tax not recognised on current year losses 5,222 5,373 At effective income tax rate of 27.9 per cent 2013: 34.4 per cent 21,300 17,367 c Tax losses Deferred tax assets of 12.2 million 2013: 13.5 million have been recognised in respect of losses carried forward.
In addition, at 31 December 2014, there were unused tax losses across the Group of 115.8 million 2013: 125.4 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Of these losses, 35.9 million 2013: 54.5 million arise in Germany and 78.9 million 2013: 67.6 million arise in France.
A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels of trade.
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
None of the recognised or unrecognised losses referred to above are subject to an expiry date under existing regulation enacted at the period end.
d Deferred tax Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated capital allowances 1,781 1,970 189 258 Effect of changes in tax rate on opening liability 267 Amortisation of intangibles 976 1,354 309 1,277 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 2,757 3,324 Deferred income tax assets Relief on share option gains 1,645 1,142 502 55 Other temporary differences 3,204 2,501 1,118 1,562 Effect of changes in tax rate on opening asset 109 Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 54 326 273 320 Losses available for offset against future taxable income 12,155 13,580 545 2,185 Gross deferred income tax assets 17,058 17,549 Deferred income tax credit charge 1,300 1,335 Net deferred income tax asset 14,301 14,225 Disclosed on the balance sheet Deferred income tax asset 15,049 15,172 Deferred income tax liability 748 947 Net deferred income tax asset 14,301 14,225 At 31 December 2014, there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred income tax liability 2013: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will be covered by the UK dividend exemption.
e Impact of rate change The main rate of UK corporation tax will be reduced to 20 per cent from 1 April 2015, as enacted in the Finance Act 2013.
The deferred tax 98 in these financial statements reflects this.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per share EPS amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding own shares held.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding own shares held adjusted for the effect of dilutive options.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS are presented to assist with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Accordingly the adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS figures exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
2014 2013 000 000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 55,117 33,160 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1,868 2,375 Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 238 244 Exceptional items within operating profit 7,588 28,764 Tax on exceptional items included in operating profit 185 2,203 Exceptional tax items 489 Profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items 64,520 62,341 2014 2013 000 000 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held 135,985 142,665 Effect of dilution: Share options 1,784 1,428 Diluted weighted average number of shares 137,769 144,093 2014 2013 pence pence Basic earnings per share 40.5 23.2 Diluted earnings per share 40.0 23.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share 47.4 43.7 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 46.8 43.3 Return of Value 2 On 20 February 2015 the Company effected a capital reorganisation under which each ordinary share of 6 pence was divided into one 3 5 ordinary share of 7 pence and one B share of 0.01 pence.
Following this sub-division every 17 ordinary shares were consolidated into 9 5 15 ordinary shares of 7 pence.
The holders of the B shares could elect to either sell the shares or receive a one-off dividend payment.
9 Both options were remitted to shareholders on 10 March 2015.
This return of value is not expected to impact earnings per share in future periods.
Further details of this transaction are given in note 32.
Computacenter France, which is equivalent to the France segment, was the cash generating unit CGU at which impairment was assessed.
The recoverable amount of the Computacenter France CGU was determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
The discount rate used was 12 per cent 2013: 12 per cent.
As a result of the deterioration in performance, an impairment of 12.2 million was recognised in this CGU, which resulted in impairment to goodwill and acquired customer relationships.
14 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to the following CGUs: Computacenter UK Limited R. D. Trading Limited Computacenter Germany Computacenter France Computacenter Switzerland NEWIS SA and Informatic Services IS SA together Belgium IS These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
101 14 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets continued Movements in goodwill Computacenter Computacenter Computacenter UK Limited R. D. Trading Germany France Damax AG Belgium IS Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 January 2013 30,429 835 14,628 8,903 900 1,080 56,775 Impairment 9,271 9,271 Foreign currency adjustment 259 368 7 214 848 31 December 2013 30,429 835 14,887 907 1,294 48,352 Foreign currency adjustment 939 45 2 986 31 December 2014 30,429 835 13,948 862 1,292 47,366 Market growth rate 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Discount rate 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 12.0% 12.0% 15.0% Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The recoverable amounts of all six CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
To calculate this, cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a three-year period and on long-term market growth rates of between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent 2013: between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent thereafter.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for all CGUs for 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are: budgeted revenue, which is based on long-run market growth forecasts: budgeted gross margins, which are based on average gross margins achieved in the year immediately before the budgeted year, adjusted for expected long-run market pricing trends: and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections ranges from 11.0 to 15.0 per cent 2013: 11.0 to 15.0 per cent which represents the Groups pre-tax discount rate adjusted for the risk profiles of the individual CGUs.
Each CGU generates value substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill attributed to each of them.
Management therefore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist of customer contracts, customer relationships and tools and technology.
The expected useful lives are shown in note 2.
Other non-current assets When there is an indication of impairment within a CGU, the carrying value of the non-current assets are compared to their recoverable amount which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal or the value-in-use of the CGU calculated as described above.
In France, a shortfall from the financial budgets approved by Management, or adverse changes in the assumptions, such as a 0.5 per cent reduction in market growth rate or an increase in the discount rate of 0.5 per cent would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
15 Investments a Investment in associate The following table illustrates summarised information of the investment in associates: 2014 2013 000 000 Cost At 1 January 594 585 Share of associates profit 10 Exchange rate movement 3 1 At 31 December 591 594 Impairment At 1 January 549 10 Charge for year 539 At 31 December 549 549 Carrying value 42 45 Gonicus GmbH The Group has a 20 per cent 2013: 20 per cent interest in Gonicus GmbH, whose principal activity is the provision of Open Source Software.
Gonicus is a private entity, incorporated in Germany, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of this investment.
The reporting date of Gonicus is 31 December.
ICS Solutions Limited ICS The Group has a 25 per cent 2013: 25 per cent interest in ICS Solutions Limited whose principal activity is the delivering of both on-premise and cloud based services and solutions across the Microsoft technology stack.
ICS is a private entity, incorporated in the United Kingdom, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of the investment.
The reporting date of ICS is 30 June.
Due to the continued adverse performance of ICS, the Groups investment in ICS was fully impaired as at 31 December 2013.
102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 b Investment in subsidiaries The Groups principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of voting rights and shares held Country of Name incorporation Nature of business 2014 2013 Computacenter UK Limited England IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter France SAS France IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter Holding GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% CC Managed Services GmbH Germany IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter NV SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% 1 1 R. D. Trading Limited England IT Asset Management 100% 100% Computacenter PSF SA Luxembourg IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% 1 1 Computacenter USA USA IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% 1 1 Computacenter Services Iberia SLU Spain International Call Centre Services 100% 100% IT infrastructure and Digica Group Holdings Limited England application services 100% 100% Computacenter Services and Solutions 1 1 Pty Ltd South Africa IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter AG Switzerland IT Infrastructure services 80% 80% 3 3 Informatic Services IS SA Belgium IT Infrastructure services 100% 100% 1 1 Computacenter Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia International Call Centre Services 100% 100% 1 1 Computacenter Services Kft Hungary International Call Centre Services 100% 100% 1 1 Computacenter India Private Limited India International Call Centre Services 100% 100% 1.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter Holding GmbH.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter NV SA.
Computacenter plc is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under S410 1 2 CA 2006 and has disclosed those undertakings who principally affect the results or assets of the Group.
The full details of all subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return.
Update on acquisitions 1 On 28 December 2012 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of NEWIS SA and its subsidiary, Informatic Services IS SA for a cash consideration of 2.3 million.
Additional consideration of 0.6 million 0.5 million, translated as at the date of the payment of February 2014 was paid, based on the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
Details of the book and fair values of the net assets acquired are disclosed in note 16 of the December 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
2 On 21 July 2011 the Group acquired 80 per cent of Damax AG in Switzerland for an initial consideration of CHF 7.2 million, and agreed to purchase the remaining 20 per cent by mid-2015 for a maximum consideration of CHF 3.2 million dependent upon the achievement of agreed performance criteria over the following three and a half years.
It is highly probable that the maximum deferred consideration will be payable.
Details of the book and fair values of the net assets acquired are disclosed in note 16 of the December 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
16 Inventories 2014 2013 000 000 Inventories for re-sale 50,006 58,618 17 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 000 000 Trade receivables 686,253 657,893 Other receivables 9,662 9,829 695,915 667,722 For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to note 31.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms.
Note 24 sets out the Groups strategy towards credit risk.
18 Cash and short-term deposits 2014 2013 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 129,865 43,098 Short-term deposits 48,000 129,865 91,098 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is now in a position where it can finance its requirements from its cash balance.
The Group does, however, retain overdraft facilities where required.
The uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group are 16.1 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 17.3 million.
During 2013 the Group entered into a specific committed facility of 40.0 million for a three-year term which was due to expire in May 2016.
In February 2015 this facility was extended at the same value through to February 2018.
At 31 December 2014 the facility was not utilised.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2014 2013 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 129,865 43,098 Short-term deposits 48,000 Bank overdrafts note 20 719 764 129,146 90,334 Cash pooling The Group operates a notional cash pooling facility whereby Group companies have instant access to a facility into which excess funds can be deposited or withdrawn to meet funding requirements.
Due to the nature of this facility, all balances related to this arrangement are disclosed within cash at bank and in hand.
19 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 000 000 Trade payables 423,164 409,746 Other payables 212,115 195,199 635,279 604,945 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: For terms and conditions relating to related parties, refer to note 31.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on net monthly terms.
Other payables, which principally relate to other taxes, social security costs and accruals, are non-interest bearing and have an average term 104 of three months.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20 Financial liabilities 2014 2013 000 000 Current Bank overdrafts 719 764 Other loans CSF 2,616 1,194 Other loans Non-CSF 517 Bank loan 116 37 Current obligations under finance leases CSF note 22 2,882 6,152 6,850 8,147 Non-current Bank loan 4 29 Other loans CSF 6,087 Non-current obligations under finance leases CSF note 22 3,814 5,424 3,818 11,540 There are no material differences between the fair value of financial liabilities and their book value.
Bank overdrafts The bank overdrafts are unsecured and are subject to annual review.
Finance leases The finance leases are only secured on the assets that they finance.
These assets are in the main used to satisfy specific customer contracts.
There are a small number of assets that are utilised internally.
Bank loans The bank loans are unsecured and comprise the following: Maturity date Interest rate 000 31 December 2014 2015 3.62% 3.89% 116 2016 2.23% 4 120 Less: current instalments due on bank loans 116 Non-current instalments 4 Maturity date Interest rate 000 31 December 2013 2015 3.02% 3.89% 51 2016 2.23% 15 66 Less: current instalments due on bank loans 37 Non-current instalments 29 Other loans The other loans are unsecured borrowings to finance equipment sold to customers on specific contracts or for equipment for own use.
Other loans comprise the following: Maturity date Interest rate 000 31 December 2014 2015 1.75% 6.67% 3,133 Less: current instalments due on other loans 3,133 Maturity date Interest rate 000 31 December 2013 2014 0% 2.76% 602 2015 1.75% 6.67% 6,679 7,281 Less: current instalments due on other loans 1,194 6,087 105 20 Financial liabilities continued The table below summarises the maturity profile of these loans: 2014 2013 000 000 Not later than one year 3,133 602 After one year but not more than five years 6,679 3,133 7,281 The finance lease and loan facilities are committed.
Facilities At 31 December 2014, the Group had available 16.1 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities 2013: 17.3 million.
21 Forward currency contracts 2014 2013 000 000 Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 2,296 957 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 251 1,403 2,045 2,360 Cash flow hedges Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income These amounts reflect the change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges which are used to hedge expected contract costs in South African Rand where sales on those contracts are in Sterling, based on highly probable forecast transactions.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Group also enters into other foreign exchange forward contracts with the intention to reduce the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and purchases.
When these other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships they are measured at fair value through profit and loss within administrative expenses.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency costs and changes in the foreign exchange forward rates.
Effectiveness of Hedging The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated for the expected highly probable forecast transactions to which hedge accounting has been applied.
No significant element of hedge ineffectiveness required recognition in the income statement.
The cash flow hedges of the forecasted costs were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised loss of 251,000 2013: 1,403,000 with a deferred tax asset of 54,000 2013: 326,000 relating to the hedging instruments is included in the other comprehensive income.
The amounts retained in other comprehensive income of 251,000 are expected to mature and affect the income statement between 2015 and 2017.
22 Obligations under leases a Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery: these leases have no terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2014 2013 Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of payments payments payments payments 000 000 000 000 Within one year 3,538 2,882 6,545 6,152 After one year but not more than five years 3,604 3,814 5,783 5,424 7,142 6,696 12,328 11,576 Future finance charges 446 752 Present value of finance lease obligation 6,696 11,576 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 b Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of small machinery.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Within one year 34,248 45,120 After one year but not more than five years 52,302 66,921 More than five years 13,357 14,276 99,907 126,317 c Operating lease receivables where the Group is lessor The Group entered into commercial leases with customers on certain items of machinery.
These leases have remaining terms of between one and five years.
Future amounts receivable by the Group under the non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Within one year 2,651 4,967 After one year but not more than five years 3,796 5,878 6,447 10,845 The amounts receivable are directly related to the finance lease obligations detailed in note 22a.
23 Provisions Customer contract Other Property Total provisions provision provisions provisions 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2014 9,551 82 6,821 16,454 Arising during the year 10,425 258 10,683 Transferred from other payables 2,127 2,127 Utilised 4,577 2,710 1,671 8,958 Provisions unused reversed 1,540 107 1,647 Exchange adjustment 408 266 1 675 At 31 December 2014 3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984 Current 2014 1,882 5,810 2,116 9,808 Non-current 2014 1,144 3,848 3,184 8,176 3,026 9,658 5,300 17,984 Current 2013 4,268 82 1,655 6,005 Non-current 2013 5,283 5,166 10,449 9,551 82 6,821 16,454 Customer contract provisions Customer contract provisions are based on the Directors best estimate of the amount of future losses to completion on certain contractual services contracts.
Whilst there continues to be uncertainty around the future performance of these contracts and the exact timing of cashflows, this uncertainty continues to decrease due to the Groups experience in running these particular contracts.
Management remains comfortable with the level of the provision.
One of the three contracts ended in the final quarter of this year leaving only two provided for.
Of the other two contracts, one is due to complete in June 2016 with the second due to complete in December 2016.
Property provisions Assumptions used to calculate the property provisions are based on the market value of the rental charges plus any contractual dilapidation expenses on empty properties and the Directors best estimates of the likely time before the relevant leases can be reassigned or sub-let, which ranges between one and nine years.
The provisions in relation to the UK properties are discounted at a rate based upon the Bank of England base rate.
Those in respect of the European operations are discounted at a rate based on Euribor.
107 23 Provisions continued Other provisions Included within other provisions are estimated costs associated with elements of the comprehensive transformation of the Groups French business.
These included costs relate specifically to a material change in the employment base across the French Business known as the Social Plan.
The nature of the costs provided for include termination payments and retraining and resettlement costs for terminated employees.
Management implementation of the plan is largely complete with the individuals included within the Social Plan no longer working for the French business and the majority of the future cash flows of the costs provided at period end to occur in 2015.
The provision is based inter alia on assumptions concerning the duration of individual settlement payment programmes and the uptake of retraining and resettlement packages.
There is some residual uncertainty relating to individual legal challenges to the implementation of the Social Plan.
Having taken independent legal advice on this matter management has applied judgements which it considers reasonable in establishing the required provision.
Also included within other provisions is a provision against the Groups retirement benefit obligations in France under the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC as described in note 2.
Economic outflows under the obligation only occur if eligible employees reach the statutory retirement age whilst still in employment.
The Group paid out 16,000 during 2014 under this obligation.
In estimating the provision required, Management is required to make a number of assumptions.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the turnover rate of employed personnel and rate of salary increase over the length of their projected employment.
The level of unrealised actuarial gains or losses are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variation.
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 in respect of the Groups French retirement benefit obligations under the IFC was 3.4 million.
During the year the previously unrecognised unrealised actuarial losses have been recorded through reserves in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
This recognition is reflected above as arising during the year for 1.2 million.
24 Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 40 and 41. Credit risk The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit limits.
The credit limits are set for each customer based on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity.
These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
The balance of trade receivables relates to customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivables from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The maximum exposure on trade receivables, as at the reporting date, is their carrying value.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current asset investment and forward currency contracts, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its counterparty credit risk by placing cash on deposit across a panel of reputable banking institutions, with no more than 50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government backed counterparties where the limit is 70.0 million.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, cash and short-term deposits and finance leases and loans for certain customer contracts.
The Groups bank borrowings, existing committed and uncommitted facilities and deposits are at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into.
If long-term borrowings were to be utilised in the future, the Groups policy would be to maintain these borrowings at fixed rates to limit the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
Effect Change on profit in basis before tax points 000 2014 Sterling 25 255 Euro 25 61 2013 Sterling 25 38 Euro 25 45 The impact of a reasonably possible decrease to the same range shown in the table would result in an opposite impact on the profit before tax of the same magnitude.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Fair values The carrying value of the Groups short-term receivables and payables is a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
The fair value of all other financial instruments carried within the Groups financial statements is not materially different from their carrying amount.
Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2014 the Group held foreign exchange contracts as hedges of an inter-company loan and future expected payments to suppliers.
The exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The terms of these contracts are detailed below: 31 December 2014 Buy Sell Value of Maturity Contract currency currency contracts dates rates UK Euros Sterling 2,039,624 Jan 15 1.2513 1.2678 Sterling Dollars 2,747,873 Jan 15 Feb 15 1.5517 1.5756 Sterling Euros 8,371,469 Jan 15 Feb 16 1.2504 1.2786 US Dollar Sterling $38,241,444 Jan 15 Apr 15 1.5529 1.6342 Danish Kroner Sterling DKK 207,744 Jan 15 9.4749 Swiss Francs Sterling CHF 500,00 Apr 15 1.5384 HK Dollars Sterling HKD 400,000 Jan 15 12.0909 Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 407,200,000 Jan 15 Jul 16 394.8716 398.0425 SA Rand Sterling ZAR 374,143,726 Jan 15 Dec 17 17.3776 21.5534 Germany US Dollar Euro $69,885,000 Jan 15 Jan 16 1.2163 1.3445 Hungarian Forint Euro HUF 1,103,500,000 Jan 15 Jan 18 321.00 323.58 France Hungarian Forint Euro HUF 628,969,730 Jan 15 Oct 15 309.7486 319.77 31 December 2013 Buy Sell Value of Maturity Contract currency currency contracts dates rates UK Euros Sterling 2,715,853 Jan 14 1.1820 1.1871 Sterling Dollars 9,240,524 Jan 14 1.5713 1.6489 Sterling Swiss Francs 353,590 Apr 14 1.4141 Sterling Euros 3,089,003 Jan Feb 14 1.1722 1.2093 Dollars Sterling $39,894,698 Jan Apr 14 1.5458 1.6478 Danish Kroner Sterling DKK 43,695 Jan 14 8.9164 Hungarian Forint Sterling HUF 135,000,000 Feb 14 350.9973 358.3415 SA Rand Sterling ZAR 223,996,644 Jan 14 Dec 15 14.9234 18.2271 Germany US Dollar Euro $48,975,000 Jan May 14 1.3107 1.3863 The gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the above contracts are detailed in note 21.
Exchange rate sensitivity The majority of the transactions in each of the Groups geographical segments are denominated in the functional currency of that segment.
There are, however, a limited number of transactions where foreign currency exchange risk exists.
In these instances the Group enters into forward currency contracts, as shown in the above table, in order to mitigate such risk.
At the end of the year the fair value of the outstanding contracts was a net asset of 2,045,000 2013: 2,360,000 liability.
Other than differences arising from the translation of results of operations outside of the Groups functional currency, reasonably foreseeable movements in the exchange rates of 10 per cent or -10 per cent would not have a material impact on the Groups profit before tax or equity.
109 24 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments: On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2014 Financial liabilities 1,004 2,226 4,128 3,602 10,960 Derivative financial liabilities 114 222 53 389 Trade and other payables 638,662 1,004 641,003 4,350 3,655 On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2013 Financial liabilities 1,224 3,135 7,546 8,431 20,336 Derivative financial liabilities 1,148 842 370 2,360 Trade and other payables 604,316 604,316 1,224 608,599 8,388 8,801 627,012 Fair value measurements recognised in the consolidated balance sheet Financial instruments which are recognised at fair value subsequent to initial recognition are grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
At 31 December 2014 the Group had forward currency contracts, which were measured at Level 2 fair value subsequent to initial recognition, to the value of a net asset of 2,045,000 31 December 2013: 2,360,000 liability.
The realised losses from forward currency contracts in the period to 31 December 2014 of 4,405,000 2013: 1,806,000, are offset by broadly equivalent realised gains on the related underlying transactions.
25 Capital management Computacenters approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a strong capital base to support the development of the business and to maintain a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
Consistent with the Groups aim to maximise return to shareholders, the dividend policy is to maintain a dividend cover of between 2 to 2.5 times.
In 2014 the cover was 2.5 times, on a pre-exceptional basis 2013: 2.5 times.
The Groups capital base is primarily utilised to finance its fixed assets and working capital requirements.
The Group seeks to optimise the use of working capital and improve its cash flow.
As a consequence, the UK has sourced an increasing proportion of its product business via distributors in order to reduce the working capital requirements of the business.
Capital is allocated across the Group in order to minimise the Groups exposure to exchange rates.
Each country finances its own working capital requirements, typically resulting in borrowings in France with cash on deposit in the UK and Germany.
During 2013, a notional cash pooling arrangement was introduced, which Group companies can access and allows the Group to pool its funds.
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases, which are secured only on the assets that they finance, or loans.
Whilst the outstanding amounts of this CSF are included within net funds for statutory reporting purposes, the Group excludes this CSF when managing the net funds of the business as this outstanding financing is matched by committed future revenues.
These financing facilities, which are committed, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Groups product resale and services activities.
In certain circumstances, the Group deposits its funds in short-term investments that do not fulfil the criteria to be classified as cash and cash equivalents.
The Group considers these deposits when managing the net funds of the business, and accordingly includes these deposits within net funds excluding CSF.
Capital, defined as net funds, that the Group monitors is: 2014 2013 000 000 Net funds excluding CSF 128,509 90,271 Customer specific financing 9,312 18,857 Net funds 119,197 71,414 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Each operating country manages working capital in line with Group policies.
The key components of working capital, i. e. trade receivables, inventory and trade payables, are managed in accordance with an agreed number of days targeted in the budget process, in order to ensure efficient capital usage.
An important element of the process of managing capital efficiently is to ensure that each operating country rewards behaviour at an Account Manager and Account Director level to minimise working capital, at a transactional level.
This is achieved by increasing commission payments for early payment by customers and reduced commission payments for late payment by customers, which encourages appropriate behaviour.
The Group regularly reviews the adequacy of its facilities against any foreseeable peak borrowing requirement.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had available 16.1 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities 2013: 17.3 million of uncommitted overdraft and factoring facilities.
26 Issued capital and reserves Authorised share capital In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Companys Articles of Association has been amended to reflect this change.
Ordinary Shares 2 6p ordinary 6 p ordinary 0.01p B 3 shares shares shares Total Issued and fully paid No.
000 000 At 1 January 2013 153,908 9,234 Ordinary shares issued during the year for cash on exercise of share options 24 398 28 Bonus issue 153,932 15 Share redemption 64,500 6 Share consolidation 153,932 138,532 At 31 December 2013 138,930 89,432 9,271 Prior period correction 64,500 6 Ordinary shares issued during the year for cash on exercise of share options 82 6 At 31 December 2014 139,012 153,932 9,283 2 During the year, the issued share capital was increased by 6,000 by the issue of 82,000 ordinary shares of 6 pence each.
3 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the general meetings of the Company.
On a winding up of the Company, holders of Ordinary Shares may be entitled to the residual assets of the Company.
The Company has a number of share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Companys shares have been granted to certain executives and senior employees note 27.
Return of Value On 12 June 2013 the Company effected a capital reorganisation under which each ordinary share of 6 pence was divided into one ordinary 2 share of 6 pence and one B share of 0.01 pence.
Following this sub-division every 10 ordinary shares of 6 pence were consolidated into 3 2 9 ordinary shares of 6 pence.
As a result of the 9 for 10 consolidation, 153,931,830 ordinary shares of 6 pence became 138,538,647 3 2 ordinary shares of 6 pence.
3 The holders of the B shares could elect to either sell the shares or receive a one-off dividend income.
Both options to be remitted to shareholders on 5 July.
The holders of B shares are then not entitled to any further profits of the Company.
Share premium The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Companys shares are issued redeemed at a premium.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the Companys capital following the purchase and cancellation of its own shares.
During the year the Company repurchased nil of its own shares for cancellation 2013: nil.
111 26 Issued capital and reserves continued Own shares held Own shares held comprise the following: i Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan 2 Shares in the parent undertaking comprise 2,772,338 2013: 3,065,133 6 pence ordinary shares of Computacenter plc purchased by the 3 Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
The principal purpose of the Plan is to be funded with shares that will satisfy discretionary executive share plans.
The number of shares held represents 2.0 per cent 2013: 2.2 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
None of these shares were awarded to executives of the Company under the Computacenter UK Limited Cash Bonus and Share Plan.
Options previously awarded are to be held on behalf of employees and former employees of Computacenter UK Limited and their dependants, excluding Jersey residents.
The distribution of these shares is dependent upon the trustee holding them on the employees behalf for a restrictive period of three years.
Since 31 December 2002 the definition of beneficiaries under the ESOP Trust has been expanded to include employees who have been awarded 2 options to acquire ordinary shares of 6 pence each in Computacenter plc under the other employee share plans of the Computacenter Group, 3 namely the Computacenter Services Group plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, the Computacenter Performance-Related Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme and any future similar share ownership schemes.
All costs incurred by the Plan are settled directly by Computacenter UK Limited and charged in the accounts as incurred.
The Plan Trustees have waived the dividends receivable in respect of 2,772,338 2013: 3,065,133 shares that it owns which are all unallocated shares.
ii Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust the Quest The total shares held are 94,162 2013: 41,965, which represents 0.07 per cent 2013: 0.03 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
All of these shares will continue to be held by the Quest until such time as the Sharesave options granted against them are exercised.
The Quest Trustees have waived dividends in respect 2 of all of these shares.
During the year the Quest subscribed for 77,959 2013: 374,760 6 pence ordinary shares.
3 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
27 Share-based payments Executive share option scheme 2 During the year, options were exercised with respect to 262,000 2013: 317,000 6 pence ordinary shares at a nominal value of 17,468 3 2012: 21,134 at an aggregate premium of 644,492 2013: 800,946.
Prior to the Return of Value during 2013 options in respect of 124,000 6 pence ordinary shares, at a nominal value of 7,440 and at an aggregate premium of 320,695, were exercised.
The total nominal value of options exercised during 2013 was 145,134 and the total aggregate premium was 1,121,641.
Under the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Computacenter Services Group Executive Share Scheme, options in respect of nil 2013: nil shares lapsed.
The numbers of shares under options outstanding at the year-end comprise: 2014 2013 Exercise Number Number Date of grant Exercisable between price outstanding outstanding 02 04 2004 02 04 2007 01 04 2014 424.00p 4,000 24 10 2006 24 10 2011 23 10 2016 250.00p 300,000 558,000 17 04 2007 17 04 2012 16 04 2017 285.00p 30,000 30,000 330,000 592,000 Please refer to the information given in the Directors interest in share incentive schemes table in the Annual Remuneration report on page 70 for details of the vesting conditions attached to the Executive share options.
112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The following table illustrates the number No.
and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of share options for the Executive Share Option Scheme.
WAEP Executive share option scheme 1 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 592,000 2.53 1,033,000 2.56 Forfeited during the year 2 Exercised during the year 262,000 2.53 441,000 2.61 Outstanding at the end of the year 330,000 2.53 592,000 2.53 Exercisable at the end of the year 330,000 2.53 592,000 2.53 Notes 1.
Included within this balance are options over nil 2013: nil shares that have not been accounted for under IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 6.29 2013: 5.16.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 1.9 years 2013: 2.80 years.
Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan Under the Computacenter LTIP Performance Share Plan, shares granted will be subject to certain performance conditions as described in the Annual Remuneration report.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 1.2 years 2013: 1.2 years.
Computacenter Sharesave Scheme The Company operates a Sharesave Scheme which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries who have worked for a qualifying period.
All options granted under this scheme are satisfied at exercise by way of a transfer of shares from the Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust.
and WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 2014 2014 2013 2013 No.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 6.23 2013: 5.77.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2014 is 3.3 years 2013: 3.4 years.
The fair value of the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Performance-Related Share Option Scheme, the LTIP Performance Share Plan and Sharesave Scheme plans are estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
The following tables give the assumptions made during the year ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013: 2014 LTIP LTIP LTIP performance performance performance SAYE SAYE Nature of the arrangement share plan share plan share plan scheme scheme Date of grant 20 03 2014 20 03 2014 20 03 2014 24 10 2014 24 10 2014 Number of instruments granted 404,138 360,103 13,729 430,092 845,194 Exercise price nil nil nil 5.895 5.24 Share price at date of grant 6.635 6.635 6.635 6.16 6.16 Contractual life years 3 3 2 3 5 See note 5 on Three-year Five-year page 70 in the service service annual period period remuneration See note 1 See note 1 and savings and savings Vesting conditions report below below requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a n a 34.2% 36.9% Expected option life at grant date years 3 3 2 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a n a 1.87% 1.87% Dividend yield 2.60% 2.60% 2.60% 2.95% 2.95% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 6.14 6.14 6.30 1.34 1.90 2013 LTIP LTIP LTIP performance performance performance SAYE SAYE Nature of the arrangement share plan share plan share plan scheme scheme Date of grant 03 05 2013 03 05 2013 03 05 2013 25 10 2013 25 10 2013 Number of instruments granted 570,681 418,752 60,146 447,554 759,331 Exercise price nil nil nil 4.84 4.40 Share price at date of grant 4.40 4.40 4.40 5.70 5.70 Contractual life years 3 3 2 3 5 See note 4 on page 70 in Three-year Five-year the annual service period service period remuneration See note 1 See note 1 and savings and savings Vesting conditions report below below requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a n a 37.3% 45.0% Expected option life at grant date years 3 3 2 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a n a 1.51% 1.51% Dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 2.75% 2.75% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 3.97 3.97 4.11 1.58 2.05 Note 1.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2006, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011.
One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per annum.
One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 7.5 per cent and will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 10 per cent.
If the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period is between 5 and 10 per cent, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis.
The performance period usually covers a period of three years from 1 January of the year the award is granted.
A limited number of PSP awards are granted with a performance period of two years.
114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the recent historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
No other features of the options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
28 Analysis of changes in net funds At At 1 January Cash flows Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2014 in year flow differences 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short-term deposits 91,098 42,682 3,915 129,865 Bank overdraft 764 35 80 719 Cash and cash equivalents 90,334 42,647 3,835 129,146 Bank loans 63 61 4 120 Other loans non-CSF 517 517 Net funds excluding customer specific financing 90,271 42,069 3,831 128,509 Customer specific finance leases 11,577 4,983 342 240 6,696 Customer specific other loans 7,280 4,664 2,616 Total customer specific financing 18,857 9,647 342 240 9,312 Net funds 71,414 51,716 342 3,591 119,197 At At 1 January Cash flows Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2013 in year flow differences 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short-term deposits 138,149 48,865 1,814 91,098 Bank overdraft 678 27 59 764 Cash and cash equivalents 137,471 48,892 1,755 90,334 Current asset investment 10,000 10,000 Factor financing 144 84 3 63 Net funds excluding customer specific financing 147,327 58,808 1,752 90,271 Customer specific finance leases 17,999 8,065 1,235 408 11,577 Customer specific other loans 702 6,578 7,280 Total customer specific financing 18,701 1,487 1,235 408 18,857 Net funds 128,626 57,321 1,235 1,344 71,414 29 Capital commitments At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the Group held no significant commitments for capital expenditure.
30 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution pension plan, covering substantially all of its employees in the UK.
The amount recognised as an expense for this plan is detailed in note 6.
Details of the Retirement Benefit obligation for France are given in note 23.
115 31 Related party transactions During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
Transactions entered into are as described below: Biomni provides the Computacenter e-procurement system used by many of Computacenters major customers.
An annual fee has been agreed on a commercial basis for use of the software for each installation.
Both PJ Ogden and PW Hulme are Directors of and have a material interest in Biomni Limited.
The table below provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year: Sales to Purchases Amounts Amounts related from related owed by owed to parties parties related parties related parties 000 000 000 000 Biomni Limited 28 996 28 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables.
The Group has not recognised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors The Board of Directors is identified as the Groups key management personnel.
Please refer to the information given in the remuneration table in the Annual Remuneration report on page 68 for details of compensation given to the Groups key management personnel.
A summary of the compensation of key management personnel is provided below: 2014 2013 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 1,946 1,789 Social security costs 231 279 Share-based payment transactions 732 5 Pension costs 41 12 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 2,951 2,075 The interest of the key management personnel in the Groups share incentive schemes are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration report on page 70.
32 Events after the reporting period Detailed below are the significant events that happened after the Groups year end date of 31 December 2014 and before the signing of this Annual Report and Accounts on 11 March 2015.
Disposal of R. D. Trading Limited On 2 February 2015, the Group announced that it was disposing of its wholly-owned IT disposal and recycling subsidiary, R. D. Trading Limited RDC.
The Group reached agreement with Arrow Electronics UK Holding Limited for the disposal of the entire issued share capital of RDC.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, RDC generated revenues of 44.1 million 2013: 41.9 million, statutory profit before tax of 4.8 million 2013: 3.7 million and as at 31 December 2014 had net assets of 16.2 million 2013: 12.5 million.
Gross consideration for the disposal is 56.0 million payable in cash on a cash-free and debt-free basis, before transaction costs and subject to certain post-completion adjustments.
Completion of the disposal is not subject to any outstanding conditions and has now taken place.
There is no provision for the payment of deferred consideration under the agreement.
The disposal of RDC did not warrant classification as a non-current asset held for sale at the reporting date as management judged, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy see note 2 that the sale was not highly probable at the reporting date, nor was the Board committed to a sale plan where there was an expectation that the assets would be sold within one year.
RDC also does not meet the requirements for a discontinued operation as it is not a major line of business or discrete geographical area i. e. an operating segment.
The proceeds of the disposal will be used as part of the one-off Return of Value to Shareholders outlined below.
Return of Value to Shareholders The Group announced on 2 February 2015, that it proposed to make a one-off Return of Value to Shareholders of 71.9 pence per Existing Ordinary Share, equivalent to approximately 100 million or approximately 11.2 per cent of Computacenters current market capitalisation, based on the middle market price of 643 pence per Existing Ordinary Share on 29 January 2015.
The return is being made using a B Share structure with an associated Share Capital Consolidation of 15 New Ordinary Shares for every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares.
The approval of Shareholders was required for the Return of Value and Share Capital Consolidation.
Accordingly, the Group posted a circular to its Shareholders and convening an Extraordinary General Meeting, held on 19 February 2015, where the Return of Value was approved.
116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Return of Value consisted of a Capital Reorganisation, including the issue and allotment of B Shares and an associated Share Capital Consolidation.
Under the terms of the Return of Value, Shareholders received for every 1 Existing Ordinary Share held at the Record Date 1 B Share: and in place of every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares held at the Record Date 15 New Ordinary Shares.
Following Shareholder approval, Shareholders were able to elect between the following alternatives in relation to their B Shares.
Alternative 1 Single B Share Dividend Income Shareholders could have elected to receive the Single B Share Dividend of 71.9 pence per B Share in respect of all of their B Shares.
Alternative 2 Purchase Offer Capital Alternatively, Shareholders other than US Shareholders could have elected to for all of their B Shares to be purchased by Investec Bank plc, acting as principal on 23 February 2015, at 71.9 pence per B Share, free of all dealing expenses and commissions.
The payment of the consideration under the purchase offer and of the Single B Share Dividend was in each case completed on 10 March 2015.
Management reviewed the financial position of the Group just prior to the announcement of the Return of Value and continue to regard the going concern assumption as appropriate and the financial statements continue to be prepared on this basis.
