156 Portfolio and other information Portfolio valuation an explanation Apportioning the enterprise value between 3i, other Policy shareholders and lenders The valuation policy is the responsibility of the Board, with additional Once we have estimated the enterprise value, the following steps oversight and annual review from the Valuations Committee.
Our policy are taken: is to value 3is investment portfolio at fair value and we achieve this byvaluing investments on an appropriate basis, applying a consistent 1.
We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash balances, approach across the portfolio.
The policy ensures that the portfolio thatare more senior to the most senior of our investments.
valuation is compliant with the fair value guidelines under IFRS and, in 2.
The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned to the sodoing, is also compliant with the guidelines issued by the International Groups investment, and equal ranking investments by other parties, Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation board the IPEV guidelines.
according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair The policy covers the Groups Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt valueof the entirety of the investment.
The value is then distributed Management investment valuations.
Valuations of the investment amongst the different loan, equity and other financial portfolio of the Group and its subsidiaries are performed at each .
If the value attributed to a specific shareholder loan investment in Fair value is the underlying principle and is defined as the price that acompany is less than its par or nominal value, a shortfall is implied, would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between which is recognised in our valuation.
In exceptional cases, we may market participants at the measurement date IPEV guidelines, judge that the shortfall is temporary: to recognise the shortfall December 2012.
Fair value is therefore an estimate and, as such, insucha scenario would lead to unrepresentative volatility and determining fair value requires the use of judgment.
hencewe may choose not to recognise the shortfall.
Private equity valuation Other factors In applying this framework, there are additional considerations that Determining enterprise value arefactored into the valuation of some assets.
To arrive at the fair value of the Groups Private Equity investments, wefirst estimate the entire value of the company we have invested Impacts from structuring inthe enterprise value.
This enterprise value is determined using Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or cash at oneofaselection of methodologies depending on the nature, facts specific points in time or linked to specific events.
For example, where andcircumstances of the investment.
amajority shareholder chooses to sell, and we have a minority interest, Where possible, we use methodologies which draw heavily on we may have the right to a minimum return on our investment.
observable market prices, whether listed equity markets or reported Debt instruments, in particular, may have structural rights.
In the merger and acquisition transactions.
valuation, it is assumed third parties, such as lenders or holders of The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their closing bid price convertible instruments, fully exercise any structural rights they might atthe balance sheet date.
have if they are in the money, and that the value to the Group may therefore be reduced by such rights held by third parties.
The Groups The majority of the rest of our portfolio, however, is represented own structural rights are valued on the basis they are exercisable byunquoted investments.
These are valued, inthe vast majority of onthereporting date.
cases, with reference to market comparables, or to recent reported relevant transactions.
As unquoted investments are not traded on an active market, the Group adjusts the estimated enterprise value by a marketability or liquidity discount.
The marketability or liquidity discount is applied to the total enterprise value and weapply a higher discount rate for investments where there are material restrictions on our ability to sell at a time ofourchoosing.
The table on page 158 of this document outlines in more detail the range of valuation methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs and adjustments necessary for each.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Portfolio and other information 157 Assets classified as terminal If we believe an investment has more than a 50% probability of failing inthe 12 months following the valuation date, we value the investment onthe basis of its expected recoverable amount in the event of failure.
Itis important to distinguish between our investment failing and the business failing: the failure of our investment does not always mean thatthe business has failed, just that our recoverable value has droppedsignificantly.
This would generally result in the equity and loan components of our investment being valued at nil.
Value movements inthe period relating to investments classified as terminal are classified as provisions in our value movement analysis.
Infrastructure valuation The primary valuation methodology used for infrastructure investments is the discounted cash flow method DCF.
Fair value is estimated byderiving the present value of the investment using reasonable assumptions of expected future cash flows and the terminal value anddate, and the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the investment.
The discount rate is estimated with reference to the market risk-free rate, a risk adjusted premium and information specific to the investment or market sector.
Debt management valuation The Groups Debt Management business line typically invests in traded debt instruments and the subordinated notes that it is required to hold inthe debt funds which it manages.
The traded debt instruments and thesubordinated notes are valued using a range of data including broker quotes if available, original arranging bank models, 3i internal forecasts and models, trading data where available, and data from third-party valuation providers.
Broker quotes and trading data for more liquid holdings are preferred.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 158 Portfolio and other information Portfolio valuation an explanation % of portfolio valued on Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments this basis Earnings Most commonly used Private Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of the company A marketability or liquidity 65% Private Equity Equityvaluation methodology todetermine the enterprise value discount is applied to the enterprise value, typically Earnings Used for investments which are between 5% and 15%, Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring items, such as profitable and for which we can usingfactors such as restructuring expenses, for significant corporate actions and, determine a set of listed ouralignment with inexceptional cases, run-rate adjustments to arrive at companiesand precedent management and maintainableearnings transactions, where relevant, otherinvestors and Most common measure is earnings before interest, tax, withsimilar characteristics ourinvestment rights depreciation and amortisation EBITDA inthedealstructure Earnings used are usually the management accounts for the 12 months to the quarter end preceding the reporting period, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts providesa more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companiesor relevant market transaction multiples We select companies in the same industry and, where possible, with a similar business model and profile in terms of size, products, services and customers, growth rates and geographic focus We adjust for changes in the relative performance in the set ofcomparables Quoted Used for investments Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments 16% Infrastructure inlistedcompanies or discounts applied Private Equity Imminent sale Used where an asset is in Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best estimate A discount of typically 2.5% 1% Infrastructure asalesprocess, a price has oftheexpected proceeds isapplied to reflect any Private Equity beenagreed but the transaction uncertain adjustments hasnotyet settled toexpected proceeds Fund Used for investments Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 0% Infrastructure in unlisted funds discountapplied in addition PrivateEquity to that applied by the Debt Management fundmanager Specific industry Used for investments in We create a set of comparable listed companies and derive An appropriate discount 3% metrics industrieswhich have well theimplied values of the relevant metric isapplied, depending on Private Equity definedmetrics as bases thevaluation metric used We track and adjust this metric for relative performance, forvaluation eg book value as in the case of earnings multiples forinsurance underwriters, or Comparable companies are selected using the same criteria regulated asset bases forutilities asdescribed for the earnings methodology Discounted Appropriate for businesses with Long-term cash flows are discounted at a rate which is Discount already implicit in 8% cash flow long-term stable cash flows, benchmarked against market data, where possible, or adjusted the discount rate applied to Private Equity typically in infrastructure from the rate at the initial investment based on changes in the long-term cash flows no Infrastructure risk profile of the investment further discounts applied Broker quotes Used to value traded debt Broker quotes obtained from banks which trade the specific No discount is applied 4% DebtManagement instruments instruments concerned Other Used where elements of abusiness Values of separate elements prepared on one of the Discounts applied to 3% Private Equity are valued on differentbases methodologieslisted above separate elements as above For a small proportion of our smaller investments less than 1% of the portfolio value, the valuation is determined by a more mechanical approach using information from the latest audited accounts.
Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or net assets methodology.
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are held athistorical cost.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
