Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity investments For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Company onthe board of directors of the investee company or equivalent seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a focus on Europe, governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity North America and Asia.
interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital No investment made by the Company will represent more than 20% and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that ofthe Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the time arenot shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in ofthe making of the investment.
It is expected that most individual substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the total amount debtininfrastructure businesses or assets.
required for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a single investment.
Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider entering into However, the Company may also invest in entities owning infrastructure co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other investors who businesses and assets whose shares or other instruments are listed mayalso be significant shareholders, pursuant to which 3i Group onany stock exchange, irrespective of whether they cease to be listed andits subsidiaries or such other investors may co-invest on the after completion of the investment, if the Directors judge that such an samefinancial and economic terms as the Company.
The suitability investment is consistent with the Companys investment objectives.
ofanysuch co-investment arrangements will be assessed on TheCompany will, in any case, investno more than 15% of its total  basis and would be subject to Board gross assets in other investment companies or investment trusts approval.
Depending on the size of the relevant investment and the whichare listed on the Official List.
identity of the relevant co-investor, such a co-investment arrangement The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures may be subject to the related party transaction provisions contained inthe event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the Investment inthe Listing Rules and may therefore require shareholder consent.
Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective means of The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including investing, which may be advised or managed either by the Investment any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another fund advised limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of any advisory onthe basis included in the Groups accounts.
ormanagement fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will only Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any performance make a material change to its investment policy with the approval fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, if payable, under ofshareholders.
For the avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
86 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014
