Financials and other information Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment portfolio DCF of 3i Infrastructure and its consolidated subsidiaries the Group is set DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value out below in order to provide more detailed information than is included is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment using within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future cash flows the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the investment.
The valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity terminal value attributes a residual value to the investee company at the and Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and end of the projected discrete cash flow period.
The discount rate will be Venture Capital Association.
estimated for each investment derived from the market risk-free rate, arisk-adjusted premium and information specific to the investment or Basis of valuation market sector.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date in compliance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Proportionate share of net assets Fairvalue is defined as theprice that would be received to sell an asset Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure funds, or paid to transfer aliability in an orderly transaction between market the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups share participants at the measurement date.
ofnetassets of the fund based on the most recent reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments General within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount rate applied may In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that beadjusted by the Company to reflect its assessment of the most isappropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the appropriate discount rate for the nature of assets held in the fund.
investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
Inmeasuring the fair value, the net asset value of the fund is Themethodology that is the most appropriate may consequently include adjusted, as necessary, to reflect restrictions on redemptions, adjustments based on informed and experience-based judgments, futurecommitments, illiquid nature of the investments and other andwill also consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
specific factors of the fund.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given Sales basis the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign a fair value to isapplied in exercising judgments and making necessary estimates.
anasset in cases where offers have been received as part of an Investments may include portfolio assets and other net assets liabilities investment sales process.
This may either support the value derived balances.
The methodology for valuing portfolio assets is set out below.
from another methodology or may be used as the primary valuation Any net assets liabilities within intermediate holding companies are basis.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds valued in line with the Group accounting policy and held at fair value to derive the valuation where appropriate.
Cost less fair value adjustment Quoted investments Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing bid price at the is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments valued Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing atthe lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Proportionate share of net assets Sales basis Cost less any fair value adjustments required 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 87 Information for shareholders Financial calendar Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue Ex-dividend date for final dividend 18 June 2014 and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Record date 20 June 2014 or are offered an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls Annual General Meeting 8 July 2014 comefrom fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly Final dividend expected to be paid 11 July 2014 basedabroad.
Half-yearly results November 2014 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares inthisway usually lose their money.
Registrars Most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, average of 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
theregistrar details are as follows: Protect yourself Capita Registrars Jersey Limited If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, 12 Castle Street apremium price for shares you own, or free company or research St. Helier reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register Telephone: 44 0 1534 632 310 to ensure that they are authorised.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
Call the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Helpline on Website 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register For full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest oryouare told they are out of date.
share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, please visit our investor relations website www.
Search the Financial Conduct Authoritys list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically, including your annual reports and notices of meetings, 6.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If you use please go to www.
com e-comms for details of how an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, toregister.
youwill not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website atwww.
com e-comms Report a scam If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FinancialConduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 Registered in Jersey No.
95682 3i Infrastructure plc is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
88 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 This report is printed on Cocoon Silk 50% which is madeusing 50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% FSC virgin fibre and produced at a mill certified with ISO14001 Environmental Management Standard.
Printed by Pureprint Group using environmental print technology and vegetable-based inks throughout.
99%of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 3i Infrastructure plc Registered office: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 847 410 www.
com Annual report online To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please go to: For details of how to register, log on: www.
