Financials and other information Significant accounting policies investment entity, the Company is required to meet the following Corporate information threeessential criteria: 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in a the Company obtains funds from one or more investors for the Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for purpose of providing those investor s with investment management theyear to 31 March 2014 comprise the financial statements of the services: Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements together referred to as the Group.
b the Company commits to its investor s that its business purpose is The Companies Jersey Law 1991 does not require the directors of a to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment company to present separate financial statements where consolidated income, or both: and financial statements are presented and therefore the financial results c the Company measures and evaluates the performance and position of the Company are not presented alongside the ofsubstantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
The Company meets the criteria as follows: The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on8 May 2014. the Company provides investment management services and hasseveral investors who pool their funds to gain access to Statement of compliance theseservices and investment opportunities that they might not These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with havehadaccess to individually.
An investment in infrastructure International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting businesses would not be considered generally available to individual Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the investors, due to the high capital costs and complexity of transaction International Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the execution.
The Company, being listed on the Main Market of the European Union IFRS.
London Stock Exchange, obtains funding from a diverse group ofexternal shareholders: These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance withand in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. an investment entity should invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income, or both.
The Groups annual accounts state that the strategy of the Company is to deliver stable Basis of preparation returns to shareholders through a mixture of income yield and capital The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the appreciation: and functional currency of the Company and the Group, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where the Company has elected to measure and evaluate the performance otherwise indicated.
ofallof its investments on a fair value basis.
The fair value method is used to represent the Companys performance in its communication The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS tothe market, including investor presentations, as well as the IPO and requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions Placing and Open Offer prospectuses.
In addition, the Company reports thataffect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets fair value information internally to Directors, who use fair value as and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated theprimary measurement attribute to evaluate the performance assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are  and to make investment decisions.
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results ofwhichform the basis of determining the carrying values of assets The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical andliabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
characteristics of aninvestment entity and meets the definition in Actualresults may differ from these estimates.
This conclusion will be reassessed on an annual basis, ifanyof these criteria or characteristics change.
Basis of consolidation ii Assessment of investments as structured entities The Directors The Group has early adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial have assessed whether the entities in which the Group invests should Statements, including the Amendments, Investment Entities be classified as structured entities and have concluded that none of Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entity theentities should be classified as structured entities as voting rights Amendments.
The Amendments require entities that meet the are the dominant factor in deciding who controls these entities.
definition of an investment entity to fair value certain subsidiaries iii Assessment of control The Group holds significant stakes in the through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: majority of its investee companies.
The Group must exercise judgment Recognition and Measurement, rather than consolidate their results.
in the level of control of the underlying investee company that is However, those entities that are not themselves investment entities and obtained and consider the need to classify certain investee companies provide investment related services to the Company will continue to be as associates, joint ventures or subsidiary undertakings.
iv Valuation of the investment portfolio The adoption of certain Key estimates and judgments accounting policies by the Group also requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the information to be disclosed The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS inthe financial statements.
requires the Directors to exercise judgment in the process of applying the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies are areas The key area where estimates are significant to the consolidated where a higher degree of judgment has been applied in the preparation financial statements and have a significant risk of causing a material of the financial statements.
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
i Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet the definition ofan investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to measure their The majority of assets in the investment portfolio are valued on a subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss rather than consolidate discounted cash flow basis which requires assumptions to be made them.
To determine that the Company meets the definition of an regarding future cash flows and the discount rate to be applied to 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 69 Significant accounting policies these cash flows.
Refer to Note 7 for further details of the valuation IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and techniques, significant inputs to those techniques and sensitivity of Investment Entities Amendments the fair value of these investments to the assumptions that have IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate beenmade.
Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that New standards adopted for the current year applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
In addition, The accounting policies adopted in the current year are consistent with IFRS 10 includes an exception from consolidation for entities which those of the previous year, except that the Group has adopted IFRS 13 meet the definition of an investment entity and requires such entities Fair Value Measurement, and has early adopted the following new torecognise all investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The andrevised accounting standards: Company meets the definition of an investment entity and, therefore, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements including Investment subsidiaries are recognised at fair value through profit or loss, unless Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 those subsidiaries perform investment-related services.
This has changed the treatment for the Companys investment in a number IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements ofsubsidiary entities which were previously consolidated.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The adoption of IFRS 10 has not resulted in the Company treating IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements revised anyofits investments that were previously treated as an investment inassociate as an investment in subsidiary.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures revised Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, this change in accounting Of these standards, only IFRS 10 including the investment entities policy is required to be accounted for retrospectively.
Therefore, the amendments has made a significant impact to the financial relevant comparative figures have been restated.
performance and position of the Group as its adoption requires therestatement of results previously presented.
The impact of adopting Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 is the deconsolidation of assets, liabilities, IFRS 12 and IFRS 13 require additional disclosures to be made, but incomeand expenses of the subsidiary entities which were previously haveno effect onthe financial position or performance of the Group.
The intermediate holding The adoption of IFRS11, IAS 27 revised and IAS 28 revised has not companies are now held at fair value and no longer consolidated.
had a material impact on the financial statements.
The total fair value as at 1 April 2012 of the subsidiaries that ceased tobe consolidated was 749.4 million.
The previous carrying value of Standards issued but not yet effective these subsidiaries was 880.1 million.
The difference of 130.7 million As at 31 March 2014, the following new or amended standards, being attributable to the non-controlling interests 127.2 million with whichhave not been applied in these financial statements, had been the remaining 3.5 million attributable to equity holders of the parent issued bythe International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
which has been shown through reserves.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting periods The most significant differences resulting from adopting the standards commencing on or after 1 January 2018. can be summarised as follows: IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 36 Amendment Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 39 Amendment Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Consolidated Group in future periods, although IFRS 9 may impact the disclosure of certain Financial Instruments.
70 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financials and other information As at Impact of change Restated 31 March in accounting 31 March 2013 policy 2013 m m m Consolidated Balance Sheet Investment portfolio 1,222.6 293.7 928.9 Derivative financial instruments 12.1 9.6 2.5 Trade and other receivables 18.9 6.5 12.4 Cash and cash equivalents 185.3 9.5 175.8 Loans and borrowings 160.6 160.6 Trade and other payables 6.4 4.9 11.3 Net assets 1,247.7 144.4 1,103.3 Stated capital account 181.6 181.6 Retained reserves 882.8 38.9 921.7 Translation reserve 45.6 45.6 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,110.0 6.7 1,103.3 Non-controlling interests 137.7 137.7 Total equity 1,247.7 144.4 1,103.3 As at Impact of change Restated 31 March in accounting 31 March 2013 policy 2013 m m m Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Realised gains losses over fair value on the disposal of investments 2.7 0.2 2.5 Net gains on investments at fair value through profit or loss 34.4 8.7 43.1 Investment income 98.4 36.2 62.2 Fees payable receivable on investment activities 0.7 0.7 Interest receivable 0.7 0.7 Advisory, performance and management fees payable 15.5 4.9 10.6 Operating expenses 2.3 0.2 2.1 Finance costs 17.8 14.9 2.9 Unrealised gains losses on the fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.1 4.0 3.9 Net realised losses gains over fair value on the settlement of derivative financial instruments 0.4 1.0 0.6 Other expenses income 0.3 0.5 0.2 Tax 0.1 0.1 Exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations 12.6 12.6 Non-controlling interests 19.5 19.5 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the parent 92.3 3.2 89.1 Earnings per share 9.1 1.0 10.1 The overall impact on profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent was an increase of 8.9 million as foreign exchange gains arenow included within fair value movement rather than in other comprehensive income.
Prior to the adoption of the Investment Entities Amendments, the Company consolidated on a line-by-line basis its two majority owned entities: 3iOsprey LP 68.5% ownership and 3i Networks Finland LP 87.3% ownership, the vehicles through which it holds investments in AWG and Elenia respectively.
The remaining portions of these entities are held by other third parties.
The adoption of the Investment Entities Amendments requires the Companys investment in these entities to be held at fair value through profit or loss: this has the effect of eliminating the non-controlling interest entitlement shown in the statement of comprehensive income and the balance sheet.
In addition, the presentation of the accounts will bedifferent as any cash and other assets or liabilities within these entities will be held in Investments at fair value through profit or loss in the Consolidated balance sheet rather than consolidated on a line-by-line basis.
Similarly, the recognition of income for the Company will depend on the nature of income distribution from 3i Osprey LP and 3i Networks Finland LP and will not be determined by the underlying income distribution from AWG andElenia.
The Company has a wholly-owned subsidiary, Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher which is used to fund the minority investment into three subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH.
External borrowings were obtained by Oystercatcher to partly fund the investments.
These borrowings arenon-recourse to the Company.
Prior to the adoption of the Investment Entities Amendments, the Company consolidated Oystercatcher on aline-by-line basis.
The adoption of the Investment Entities Amendments requires that Oystercatcher is accounted for as an investment at fair valuethrough profit or loss.
As a result the borrowings will be included within Investments at fair value through profit or loss intheConsolidated balance sheet rather than consolidated on a line-by-line basis.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 71 Significant accounting policies In addition the Company has a number of wholly owned intermediate differences arising on translation to the functional currency holding company subsidiaries which were previously consolidated arerecognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
As a result of adopting the Investment Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of EntitiesAmendments cash and other assets liabilities held in these historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange subsidiaries, which can be transferred to the Company with no rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities significant restrictions, are disclosed within Investments at fair value denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are through profit or loss and are not consolidated within the relevant translated to the functional currency using exchange rates ruling financial statement line item.
atthedate the fair value was determined.
Following the adoption of the Investment Entities Amendments, the NetAsset Value and Total Return of the Group approximate the results C Investment portfolio previously presented as the Investment basis in the Annual report Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and andaccounts 2013.
However, there is considerable disparity between derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment thetwobases of preparation in the way the individual line items are isunder a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement presented in the primary statements.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of investment income and obtaining capital A Classification appreciation from changes in the fair value of investments.
Therefore, i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
all quoted investments and unquoted investments are designated Control exists when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable asatfair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and returns from its involvement with the subsidiary entity and has the subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
All investments ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and entity.
In accordance with the exception under IFRS 10 Consolidated held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a Financial Statements, the Company does not consolidate subsidiaries different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition costs in the financial statements, unless they perform investment-related are attributed to equity investments and recognised in the statement services.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for as Investments ofcomprehensive income.
at fair value through profit or loss.
The Directors have assessed that i Realised gains or losses over value on the disposal of investments 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited is the only subsidiary of the isthe difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable Company that provides investment-related services or activities and on disposal less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity does not meet the definition of an investment entity.
This subsidiary andthe repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at hasbeen consolidated with the Company to form the Group.
thestart of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised hassignificant influence, but not control, over the financial and inthe statement of comprehensive income.
ii Net gains or losses on the revaluation of investments is the Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio movement in the fair value of investments between the start and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group endofthe accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and mayhave significant influence over those companies.
This treatment theendof the accounting period, converted into sterling using the ispermitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, which allows exchangerates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded inthe statement of comprehensive income.
fromits scope where those investments are designated, upon initial Income recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the inaccordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it inthestatement of comprehensive income in the year.
is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of be reliably measured.
the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair Investment income relates to returns from investments in the Portfolio, value.
This treatment is permitted by IFRS 11 and IAS 28, which allows excluding fair value movement on the value of the Portfolio.
interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance income is recognised: with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement comprehensive income in the year.
ofcomprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup payment have been established with the exception of dividends paid balancesbetween the Company and the consolidated subsidiary: out of pre-acquisition reserves that are recognised by adjusting the 3iInfrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited, and any unrealised gains and fair value of the equity investment upon acquisition: losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to Therewill be no elimination with subsidiaries held at fair value.
theprincipal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash B Exchange differences flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets Foreign currency transactions Transactions entered into by the carrying value or principal amount: Groupin a currency other than its functional currency are recorded distributions from investments in Limited Partnerships are atthe rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the monetary assets and liabilities are translated to the functional currency Limited Partners rights to receive payment have been established: at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange 72 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financials and other information fees receivable represent amounts earned on completion of sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: underlying investment transactions and are recognised on an andare recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has been established.
F Other assets D Fees Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of policy, are stated at their consideration receivable less impairment acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
The carrying value of such assets or liabilities is considered approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each balance ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
onthe Gross Investment Value of the Group.
The fee is payable If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is quarterlyin advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change Furtherexplanations are provided in Note 18. in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable annually in arrears does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 18.
G Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and borrowings policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial reporting date.
The carrying value of other liabilities is considered E Treasury assets and liabilities tobeapproximate to their fair value.
Short-term treasury assets and shortand long-term treasury liabilities are used to manage cash flows and the overall costs of H Equity and reserves borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company including the balancesheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party conversion of warrants is recognised at the fair value of proceeds tothecontractual provisions of the instrument.
received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the proceeds received.
sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the Company short-term deposits as defined above.
Interest receivable on cash net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has been transferred andcash equivalents is recognised on an accrualsbasis.
to distributable reserves in previous years.
Share capital is treated as ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings are an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder ofissue costs associated with the borrowings.
These issue costs are ofthe instrument.
The retained reserve represents the distributable capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other receivables and reserves of the Company.
The retained reserve incorporates the amortised over the life of the loan.
After initial recognition, loans and cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the capital account of the Company.
estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs asa deduction from retained reserves in the period in which the andany discount or premium on settlement.
Companys obligation to make the dividend payment arises.
iii Other financial assets Other financial assets in the balance sheet comprise cash held on deposit in a third party bank account on behalf of I Income taxes the Mersey Gateway project.
The Company retains the right to replace Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, this cash deposit for a letter of credit of the equivalent amount.
withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations relates to an amount recognised in the statement of changes in equity in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
This is achieved by the use of when it is recognised directly in this statement.
Such instruments areused for the The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
sole purpose of efficient portfolio management.
Allderivative financial This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated statement of instruments are held at fair value through profitorloss.
comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes onthe contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws for each relevant tax instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
jurisdiction in which the subsidiaries of the Group operate that have Thematurity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative to the been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
financial contract settlement date of each contract and the derivative Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on contracts are disclosed in the financial statements as either current differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in ornon-current accordingly.
Realised gains over fair value on the the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the settlement of derivative financial instruments are the difference computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance between the fair value of the consideration receivable on disposal sheet liability method.
andthe fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted into 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 73
