Accounting policies Basis of preparation Standards not affecting the reported results The financial statements have been prepared and approved by nor the financial position the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting The following new and amended standards and interpretations Standards endorsed by the EU.
have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these The financial statements have been prepared on the historical financial statements.
cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the measurement of long term Effective date employee benefits at present value of the obligation less fair value IFRS 13 May 2011 Fair Value 1 January 2013 of any assets held to settle the obligation.
The principal accounting Measurement policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise IAS 19 June 2011 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 stated, are set out below.
amended In publishing these financial statements, the Company is taking Annual Improvements Improvements to 1 January 2013 advantage of the exemption provided by section 408 of the 2011 May 2012 IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income IAS 32, IAS 34 statement and related notes that form part of the approved Amendments to IFRS 7 Offsetting financial 1 January 2013 financial statements.
December 2011 assets and financial Going concern liabilities The directors have, at the time of approving the financial IFRS 13 had no impact on the Groups results, but resulted in statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and additional disclosures for financial instruments.
IAS 19 Amended the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational had no material impact on the Groups results but resulted in some existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt additional and amended disclosures.
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial The Group has also adopted any revisions to the standards that are statements.
Further detail is included in the Directors report on effective for the first time in the current year.
This has no material page 82. impact on the Groups results.
New standards and interpretations not applied Accounting estimates and judgements Endorsed by the EU and available for early adoption: Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use Effective of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the date periods reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities commencing at the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported on or after income and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates 1 January 2014 are based on managements knowledge and judgement of information and financial data, the actual outcome may differ IFRS 10 May 2011 Consolidated 1 January 2014 from these estimates.
The key assumptions which affect the financial statements results for the year and the balances as at the year end are IFRS 11 May 2011 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014 specifically identified, where appropriate, in the following IFRS 12 May 2011 Disclosure of Interest 1 January 2014 notes to the Group financial statements: in Other Entities a impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets Amendments to Transition guidance 1 January 2014 note 13: IFRS 10, 11 and 12 December 2011 b assessment of estimated useful lives of intangible assets Amendments to IAS Offsetting financial 1 January 2014 notes 13: 32 December 2011 assets and financial c business combinations and measurement of assets and liabilities liabilities at time of acquisition notes 14 and 29: Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets 1 January 2014 d provisions - note 27.
IFRS 10 may require the consolidation of more funds which are managed by the Group.
This will require the grossing up of the Groups assets and liabilities, however, it is not expected to have a material impact on operating profit, profit before tax or net assets.
IFRS 12 will not impact the Group results, but will require increased disclosure where the Group has an interest in the funds it manages.
86 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements No other standards and interpretations issued and not yet effective Basis of consolidation are expected to have a material impact on the Group's results.
The consolidated financial information contained within these Standards and interpretations not endorsed: financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for the Effective period to 30 September 2014.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled date periods by the Company and are included from the date that control commencing commences until the date that control ceases.
Control exists on or after when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern 1 January 2014 the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain Annual Improvements to 1 July 2014 benefits from its activities.
improvements 2012 IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately December 2013 8, IFRS 13, IAS 16, from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling IFRS 9, IAS 37, shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their IAS 39 holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation Annual improvements IFRS 1, IFRS 3, 1 July 2014 may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling 2013 December 2013 IFRS 13 interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2015 identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on a October 2010 Instruments: case by case basis.
Classification and Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at fair value.
Measurement Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling Amendment to Accounting for 1 January 2016 interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition IFRS 11 May 2014 Acquisitions of plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in Interests in Joint equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling Operations interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a Amendment to IAS Clarification 1 January 2016 negative balance.
16 and IAS 38 of Acceptable All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses May 2014 Methods of between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Depreciation and Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as Amortisation unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no Amendment to IFRS Consolidated 1 January 2016 evidence of impairment.
10 and IAS 28 financial September 2014 statements and Business combinations Investments in Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using associates and joint the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition ventures is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition IFRS 15 May 2014 Revenue from 1 January 2017 date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity contracts with instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the customers acquiree.
Costs relating to acquisitions are recognised in the IFRS 9 July 2014 Financial 1 January 2018 income statement as incurred, and, where sufficiently material are Instruments disclosed separately in the income statement.
The Group is assessing the impact of the above standards on the Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes Group's future financial statements.
any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are reflected in the income statement and, when sufficiently material, are disclosed separately.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
com 87 Accounting policies continued The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Acquisition-related items liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Where the Group incurs significant expenditure or earns Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition significant income arising from an acquisition and which are date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure then the assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised expenditure incurred is separately recognised on the face of the and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 income statement in order to provide more helpful information Employee Benefits respectively.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete These costs are disclosed in a separate column of the income by the end of the reporting period in which the combination statement.
Finance costs such as interest on borrowings to occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for execute an acquisition and including the unwind of discount on which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions are considered are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets acquisition-related items where they are necessarily incurred in or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained the course of an acquisition.
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at Leases that date.
All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition leased asset.
to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and is Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the subject to a maximum of one year.
income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as Revenue a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight line Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that basis over the period to the first rent review.
economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and performance fees.
Pension costs Commissions and similar expenses payable to intermediaries are The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a group recognised when services are provided.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state defined contribution The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of schemes.
Contributions to these defined contribution pension clients where the actual performance of the clients assets exceeds schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement defined benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance over as they become payable under the rules of the schemes.
Performance fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be reliably estimated and it is probable The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit that the fee will be received.
pension schemes which arose on acquisitions.
All schemes are closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
The Finance revenue Groups net obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest income separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future is recognised using the effective interest rate method as it accrues.
benefit that members have earned in return for their service in Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to Finance costs the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
using the effective interest rate method.
They also include nonutilisation fees charged on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility.
The unwind of the discount on deferred consideration is classified as finance costs.
88 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes is Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of and is calculated at the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group or Company.
Net interest on the liability asset and the costs of curtailments, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable settlements and administration are recognised in the temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised income statement.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can Remeasurements are recognised directly in other comprehensive be utilised, except: income in the period in which they occur.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised asset in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in Other employee benefits the foreseeable future: Share-based payments and deferred fund awards where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial The Group grants equity-settled share-based awards and recognition of goodwill: and cash-settled awards for awards in Aberdeen funds to certain employees.
where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that: Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
is not a business combination: and The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled at the time of the transaction, affects neither share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over accounting profit nor loss.
the service period to vesting, based on the Groups estimate of Property, plant & equipment equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be measured For cash-settled deferred fund awards, a liability is recognised for reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an expense in the the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value income statement as incurred.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off the settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated useful is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or lives as follows: loss for the year.
Heritable property: 50 years: Taxation Leasehold property: over the period of the lease: Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and Property improvements: shorter of five years or the period deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except of the lease: and to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income.
Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each reporting balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect date to consider whether there is any indication that the value of of previous years.
any asset may be impaired: if any such indication exists and where Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities asset is written down to its recoverable amount, being the greater in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
losses are recognised in the income statement.
com 89 Accounting policies continued Software Intangible assets Purchased software assets have a finite life and are stated at Goodwill cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, line basis over the useful economic life of the asset which, for liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in software, is estimated at between three and five years.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is expenditure on software is capitalised only when it increases the stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which Management contracts and distribution agreements it relates.
Intangible assets, such as management contracts and distribution Impairment agreements acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the fair goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
The value of the assets can be measured reliably.
Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of intangible fixed assets with definite lives, property, plant & equipment and They are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if other assets, including fixed asset investments, whenever events or appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair value at the date of changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may acquisition is calculated using discounted cash flow methodology not be recoverable.
and represents the valuation of the net residual income stream arising from the management contracts or distribution agreements An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are included in the whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating balance sheet as an intangible asset.
unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain open end funds, which have no limit of time or termination Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In provisions, are considered to be indefinite and are therefore not respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these contracts been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable is reassessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the remains appropriate.
assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, Management contracts in respect of segregated mandates and if no impairment loss had been recognised.
certain open end funds are considered to have a definite life and are therefore amortised, generally, on a straight line basis over Financial instruments the lower of their estimated useful lives or average contract Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, in term of between two and ten years, with amortisation charged the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, to the income statement reflecting the pattern of consumption directly attributable transaction costs.
They are categorised as of economic benefits.
In limited situations, where a higher value described below.
of outflows is expected in earlier years we may apply a reducing balance basis, under which the amortisation charge is higher The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded in early periods.
The useful lives of distribution agreements are on organised financial markets is determined by reference to determined by reference to the expiry date of the agreement.
market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are value is determined using valuation techniques.
These techniques reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
include recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another financial instrument which is substantially the same and discounted cash flow analysis.
90 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements Financial investments held for trading include investments Cash and cash equivalents acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits or if so designated by management.
They are carried at fair value and investments in money market instruments with an original in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken to the income maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are statement in the period in which they arise.
The following repayable on demand are included as a component of cash assets and liabilities are classified as financial instruments and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of held for trading: cash flows.
"Current assets Investment contracts Assets backing investment contract liabilities The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Stock of units and shares Pensions Limited ""L&P""."
Management fees earned from these Seed capital contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting Other investments policy for revenue.
Current liabilities L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a lineby-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets described as assets Investment contract liabilities backing investment contract liabilities held by L&P and related Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair fair value taken to profit or loss.
value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the Amounts received from and paid to investors under these cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore in the income statement.
not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
At financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at an is reclassified from equity to profit and loss with subsequent amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match the movements recognised in profit and loss.
Non-current assets includes Other investments available for sale Other investments held at amortised cost Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the Group commits to its sale.
com 91 Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Foreign currencies In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items Equity instruments included in the financial statements of each entity are measured Perpetual subordinated capital securities in that functional currency.
The 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes are classified as an Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, except at currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are recognised as denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange distributions within equity.
rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences Dividends arising are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at by shareholders.
the date of the transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign Provisions currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has sheet date.
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be in the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in other pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
obligation cannot be made.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated foreign exchange differences in respect of that operation are recycled to the profit and loss account.
92 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
