Where we operate We have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets, yet we are flexible enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
We have teams of skilled investment professionals across a range of investment strategies including equities, fixed income, property and solutions to serve our institutional and retail clients.
Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific The UK accounts for 57% of our clients by AuM, some Singapore is the Asian headquarters of the Group and is home 186 billion.
This increased from last year due to the acquisition to most of our Asia fund managers covering the main asset of SWIP in March 2014. classes as well as substantial marketing, client servicing and administrative functions.
Our headquarters are in Aberdeen, where we locate many Group functions.
Other full service offices are in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Sydney and Tokyo.
Our Taipei and Kaohsiung Our largest investment offices are in London and Edinburgh sales offices service the retail market in Taiwan.
where we have our investment teams for global emerging markets equities ex.
Asia, UK, European and global equities: European, Clients in Asia account for around 8% of our AuM and our global and emerging market fixed income: alternatives, investment investments in Asian equities, fixed income and property are core solutions and quantitative investments: and UK property teams.
We have a significant presence across Continental Europe with Americas 14 regional offices in 13 countries.
Europe, excluding the UK, Philadelphia is our hub for North America and includes fixed accounts for 17% in September of Group AuM.
Luxembourg is income, US equities and property teams.
Our New York office is the domicile for the flagship Aberdeen Global fund range which growing and is the home of our global and US high yield teams, as has AuM of 27 billion at the end of September.
well as being an important office for so many of our clients.
We opened our first Spanish office in Madrid in October 2013, The Toronto office services our burgeoning Canadian client base, which builds on Aberdeens work over the last decade marketing while So Paulo, which is an investment office for our emerging our investment capabilities in Spain.
market equity and debt teams has launched its own fund range.
The Middle East and Africa are important sources of institutional Our Americas team also covers Latin American clients investing in funds and we have a strong client base which we service from our Luxembourg fund range.
Around 4% in September of our AuM is managed for We manage 14% of our AuM on behalf of clients throughout institutional and sovereign wealth entities in those regions.
the Americas and have developed a strong platform on which to service institutional and wholesale channels.
10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview UK and European Offices Aberdeen Head office, Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, Edinburgh, Jersey, London, Luxembourg, Madrid, Milan, Amsterdam, Brussels, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm Budapest, Copenhagen, and Zrich Europe, Middle East and Africa Net revenue 653.7m 2013: 590.3m Asia Pacific Net revenue Americas 360.3m Net revenue 2013: 392.8m 103.6m Offices 2013: 95.4m Bangkok, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Kaohsiung, Kuala Lumpur, Offices Melbourne, Seoul, Shanghai, New York, Philadelphia, Singapore, Sydney, Taipei and Tokyo So Paulo and Toronto aberdeen-asset.
com 11 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Our strategic priorities have not changed and we will continue to apply our focused, long term investment process and aim to achieve further diversification of our AuM and revenue streams.
The SWIP acquisition has strengthened a number of capabilities and introduced new investment opportunities.
We are now better placed to meet the needs of a broader range of clients.
By servicing our clients well, we believe we will deliver value for our shareholders in the future.
43.9% Operating margin is 43.9%, notwithstanding impact of AuM outflows.
This reflects strong cost discipline.
com 13 Overview of strategic report Aberdeen aims to build on its position as a leading global asset management group founded on providing the highest levels of investment performance and client service across a broad range of capabilities.
High quality teams are at the heart of our investment process and operations.
Our aims We aim to optimise long term returns for our shareholders through: 1.
Maintaining a complete focus on providing 3.
Seeking cost effective growth either organically the highest levels of investment performance or through selective acquisitions and an optimal and client service.
organisation structure for maximum efficiency.
Recruiting, developing and retaining talent and 4.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet through being well resourced at all staffing levels, with consistent cash generation and paying an robust succession plans in place.
Themes Title Comment Page no Future growth We are a global business with investment capabilities across several asset classes.
Pages 25 and 32 driven by broader We continue to add specialist resource - in particular to support alternatives and range of capabilities investment solutions, which we believe will be growth areas in the next three to five years.
We have strong investment track records in many areas that we believe meet client demand.
Our distribution focus is now on supporting these capabilities in the largest asset pools, particularly the US and Europe.
Emerging Although our investment capabilities are more diversified following the purchase of SWIP, Pages 24 and 32 markets Aberdeen is recognised as one of the leading emerging market and Asian asset managers.
While investor sentiment to emerging markets was negative for much of the year, emerging outlook markets continue to generate a major part of growth in global wealth.
We remain positive on the long term outlook for emerging markets and believe that attractive investment opportunities still exist in Asia and emerging markets.
With both our investment capability and presence in the region, we are well placed to capture future growth.
Notwithstanding macro concerns, we believe that investors will refocus on corporate fundamentals, which remain attractive in the long run.
SWIP acquisition This transaction is a strategic step in Aberdeen's growth plans and has strengthened Pages 33 and 35 our investment capabilities.
"It has increased our scale and added a major distribution relationship with Lloyds Banking Group ""Lloyds""."
The integration process is well underway and completion in 2015 is a key priority.
Capital Healthy cash generation has continued to strengthen our balance sheet.
Pages 42 and 43 The increased total dividend payout of 18.0p 12.5% demonstrates our commitment to returning cash to shareholders.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Overview of strategic report Section Content Summary Business This shows what we do and how we operate.
Diversified product range, local investment teams, geographic model reach and client base.
This is supported by our office network, staff and global operating model.
Strategy This shows the progress against our strategic SWIP acquisition broadens capabilities.
Enlarged and strengthened aims on the left and our outlook in these areas.
business enables us to meet the needs of a broader range of clients.
Market Background on key trends in the industry, with There remains significant scope for macro economic and review an explanation of how they have impacted our geographical events to upset markets over the coming months.
progress and the effect that we anticipate they However, there are longer term trends that we believe are will have in the future.
favourable to Aberdeen: the growth of wealth, increase in retirement savings and growth in demand for alternatives and solutions products.
KPIs We look at our performance against the key KPIs show improvement in performance over the last five years.
indicators that we measure over time.
Business A more detailed review of the last year for each This demonstrates the progress being made over a broad range of review of our asset classes and regions.
Financial A summary of financial performance, looking at Robust financial performance given volatility in markets and review the income statement, balance sheet, cash flow impact of SWIP transactions.
Risk A summary of the principal risks that we face, The risk profile is similar to last year, but we highlight the impact management as well as an overview of the Groups risk of the SWIP acquisition.
Our key measures of success AuM September 2014 Operating margin Net revenue Underlying profit before tax 324.4bn 43.9% 1,117.6m 490.3m Read more on our KPIs on pages 28 and 29.
Summary This section of the strategic report from pages 14 to 49 brings together an overview of our business model and strategy, as well as more information on our people and investment process.
We look at how we performed in the year in the context of markets and the progress in the business and the Groups financial position.
Our key strategic priorities have not changed but we believe that the SWIP transaction is a major step forward: we will continue to apply our focused, long term investment process and aim to achieve further diversification of our AuM and revenue streams.
M J Gilbert W J Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director 28 November 2014 aberdeen-asset.
