GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of and the Group and Parent financial statements in accordance the corporate and financial information included on the Companys with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and in other jurisdictions.
Parent financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the Annual Report IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on law, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial page 37 of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of each statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and persons knowledge and belief: applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of taken as a whole: the Group and Parent financial statements, the Directors are the Management Report, which comprises the Strategic required to: Report and the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and prudent: the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, for the Group financial statements, state whether they have balanced and understandable and provides the information been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether performance, business model and strategy.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent By order of the Board of Betfair Group plc Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Alexander Gersh unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Director Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Compliance statement Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy This review has been prepared in accordance with section 417 at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and of the Companies Act 2006.
The reviews intent is to provide enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with information to shareholders and stakeholders.
It should not be the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other made in good faith based on the information available at the time irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forwardReport, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate looking information.
Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Other information Additional financial and non-financial information, including press releases, can be accessed on our website, corporate.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201471 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
