NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies Reporting entity Betfair Group plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 April 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in jointly controlled entities.
The Group is involved in the provision of betting services and online gaming products.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 11 June 2014.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 116 to 118.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value: and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Going concern The Group has considerable financial resources.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the consolidated financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors Report on page 69.
Functional currency and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
All financial information presented in Pounds Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million, except where otherwise stated.
Changes in accounting policy The Group has adopted the following accounting policies, standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards during the year ended 30 April 2014: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs.
In particular, it unifies the definition of fair value as the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS 13 applies prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income As a result of the amendments to IAS 1, the Group has modified the presentation of items of other comprehensive income in its consolidated statement of comprehensive income, to present separately items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from those that would never be so reclassified.
Comparative information has been re-presented accordingly.
The adoption of the Amendments to IAS 1 has no impact on the recognised assets, liabilities and comprehensive income of the Group.
The new standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2014 or on any disclosures.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
8 80 0 B B eet tfa fa ir G ir G rr o ou up p p pllc c AA nn nn uu aa l R l R ee p po orr t a t a n n d A d A c c c c o o u u n nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 Basis of consolidation Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable as well as assessing whether the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquired entity: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the goodwill is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value as at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to align them with the policies adopted by the Group when necessary.
ii Associates and jointly controlled entities equity accounted investments Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investments and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investments, from the date that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investment, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
iii Acquisition of non-controlling interests Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners, therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investments.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the period.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the Groups presentational currency, Pounds Sterling, at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 8 81 1 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 1 Accounting policies continued Foreign operations continued Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly to the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, foreign currency gains and losses arising from such item are considered to form part of a net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: Income and expenses Assets and liabilities Cumulative average Value of 1 Closing rates rates Euro 1.22 1.19 US Dollar 1.68 1.60 Australian Dollar 1.82 1.74 Romanian Lei 5.41 5.30 Discontinued operations Results in relation to discontinued operations are disclosed as a single amount on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the total post-tax loss of the subsidiary disposed of.
The comparative periods in the income statement are stated in the same way.
Restructuring costs A restructuring cost is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation to those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring cost includes only the direct expenditure arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily incurred by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups investments in certain equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are reviewed annually for changes in value with any impairment loss recognised through the income statement, and on disposal any realised gains and losses are also recognised through the income statement.
On an annual basis the available-for-sale financial assets are reviewed and re-measured on a fair value basis if the fair value is significantly different to the value previously recorded and where the fair value of the unlisted equity shares can be reliably measured.
Financial instruments i Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these consolidated financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
ii Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables, including cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include certain client funds deposited in a stakeholder account held by The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, on the basis that they are held on trust for customers and do not belong to and are not at the disposal of the Group.
82 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Non-derivative financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are designated at fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Upon initial recognition, directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
iii Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
iv Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments in relation to open betting liability positions arising as a result of open positions at the reporting date.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for through the income statement.
Share capital i Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
ii Repurchase of share capital treasury shares When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid which includes directly attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is determined by the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which include awards under share award schemes and share options granted to employees.
Property, plant and equipment i Recognition and measurement Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the costs of materials and direct labour and any other directly attributable cost of bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use.
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognised within the income statement.
ii Depreciation Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements Over the term of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset, if shorter Plant and machinery 10 years Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date.
Goodwill and other intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 8 83 3 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Acquisitions on or after 1 May 2007 In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 May 2007, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of consideration for the acquisition and the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007 The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not elected to restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 May 2007.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007, goodwill is included at 1 May 2007 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under the Groups previous accounting framework which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
Subsequent measurement Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investments, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
ii Internally generated goodwill and brands Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised as an expense in the income statement, as incurred.
iii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the income statement, as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is recognised as an internally generated intangible asset only when the necessary criteria are met: including demonstrating the technical feasibility of the product and having sufficient certainty over the future revenue or cost savings that will be generated from the product.
The qualifying expenditure capitalised represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset.
This expenditure is capitalised from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the asset is available for use.
If the criteria are not met the expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure assets are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date they are available for use over their useful economic lives.
iv Other intangible assets Identifiable intangibles are assets which have finite lives, can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring in to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful economic life or the life of the software licence contract.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
v Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Computer software The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years Licences The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years Wagering technologies 6 years Customer lists 2 to 4 years Development expenditure 3 years Brand 2 years Broadcasting technologies 2 years Impairment i Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
An indicator of impairment of a financial asset is apparent if objective evidence highlights that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value and book value.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
84 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
ii Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets the CGU.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset when allocated to a CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
ii Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
iii Share-based payment transactions The following schemes are in place that allow employees to acquire shares in the Group: Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment schemes on the basis that the Group will not be required to settle its obligations under these schemes in cash.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and is calculated using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
Restricted share scheme The Group provides a restricted share scheme as part of its bonus plan.
Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme until 2011 represent a conditional right to receive shares in the Company provided that certain Group and individual performance criteria are met.
Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant.
The shares vest over a three year period and one-third of the total entitlement vest each year.
The first years entitlement can be taken in cash at the option of the employee, and accordingly this component is accounted for as a cash settled scheme and recorded as a liability.
If, on the date of settlement, the employee elects to receive shares instead of cash, the liability previously recognised is transferred to equity, as the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
The remaining two-thirds of restricted shares granted cannot be taken in cash and accordingly are accounted for as equity-settled schemes.
A charge is recognised in employee expenses on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
In January 2012, the Group modified certain outstanding share options and replaced them with restricted shares on a 3:1 basis.
A number of individuals were granted restricted shares in the current and prior periods.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 8 85 5 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 1 Accounting policies continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Deferred Share Incentive Plan DSIP, Short Term Incentive Plan STIP and Management Incentive Plan MIP The Group currently operates the LTIP and DSIP.
In previous years, the STIP and MIP were used but these were replaced by DSIP in the financial year ended 30 April 2014.
The LTIP entitles recipients to share options and restricted share rewards based on meeting the Group and individual performance criteria over a three year period.
The DSIP provides for one-third of any annual incentive payment determined under the Annual Cash Incentive Plan to be paid in deferred shares.
Any such deferred element granted under the DSIP will vest 50% after 1 year and 50% after 2 years from the date of grant.
Clawback provisions are included and dividends accrue on vested DSIP awards.
The previous STIP and MIP structures had both cash and share elements.
The cash element was two-thirds of the award: the remaining one-third was paid in deferred shares.
The fair value of the LTIP, DSIP and the share-based elements of the STIP and MIP are calculated under IFRS 2 share-based payment.
The cash elements of the STIP and the MIP were fixed in value and paid in the year the award was made, with no option on the part of the recipient to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
Accordingly, these cash payments were classified as a cash bonus in the income statement rather than a cash settled share-based payment and expensed in the year in which the award was made.
Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP The long-term SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan provides for certain senior management and Directors to be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon the admission of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half of the restricted shares vested on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing.
The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
Stakeholder award scheme During 2011, the Group issued 309,280 restricted shares and 26,829 phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the new Stakeholder award scheme.
The scheme relates to the individual employees performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010 for which a cash bonus accrual had been recognised.
Subsequent to the year ended 30 April 2010 the reward was settled by the issue of equity instruments.
The restricted shares and phantom shares had a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme were convertible into shares upon vest date and they were measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the scheme were only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant.
Revenue Revenue is measured as the consideration received from customers and represents amounts received for services provided by the Group, as set out below.
Exchange revenue arises from the Groups betting exchange activities.
A commission is earned on each transaction and is recognised on the date the market for an event is settled.
Sportsbook revenue represents the margin derived from betting activity on the Groups fixed odds bookmaking product.
Open betting liability positions are recognised based on the best estimate of the outflow that will be required to settle the position at the balance sheet date, and losses arising from these positions are recognised in revenue.
This gives rise to a derivative financial instrument and is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss, as described in the Financial Instruments section on page 109.
Gaming revenue can either represent the margin derived from betting activity between customers and the Group or, in relation to Poker and Exchange Games, the commission earned from customers.
TVG revenue is derived from US pari-mutuel betting products Advanced Deposit Wagering and Tote products and represents a percentage of the stake recognised on settlement of the event.
Revenue also includes amounts received from the management and investment of customer funds.
Expenses i Cost of sales Cost of sales principally comprises betting and gaming taxes, customer payment transaction fees, sporting levies and other data rights charges.
86 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ii Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest earned on corporate funds invested, changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement, using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis, either in finance income or finance expense as appropriate.
Tax Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax expense is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity through other reserve, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time that the liability to pay the related dividend is recognised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
In determining the current and deferred tax the Group takes into account the impact of uncertain tax positions and whether additional taxes and interest may be due.
The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open tax years based on its assessment of many factors, including interpretations of tax law and prior experience.
This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of judgements about future events.
New information may become available that causes the Group to change its judgement regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities: such changes to tax liabilities will impact tax expense in the period that such a determination is made.
Operating segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Segment information is based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources.
The CODM is the Executive Committee who monitors the financial and operational performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by the Board.
Leases Under accounting standards there is a requirement for management to examine the buildings element within each property lease to determine if the lease meets the definition of a finance lease and, if so, it should be accounted for as such.
This review involves determining the fair value of each property at the inception of the lease and analysing the minimum lease payments between their land and buildings elements.
Based on managements review of leases for the years ended 30 April 2014 and 2013, all premises leases qualify as operating leases.
Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those items included within operating profit that the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
The separate reporting of these items, which are disclosed within the relevant category in the income statement, helps provide a more accurate indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 8 87 7 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 1 Accounting policies continued Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates, judgements and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: Estimates Note 8 Income tax Tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
Note 11 Measurement of the recoverable amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets An impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
Note 14 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent managements best estimate in determining the amounts to be recognised.
When assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, consideration is given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Note 20 Measurement of share-based payments Estimation and judgement is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the awards term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of shares of the Group.
Judgements Note 1 Basis of consolidation Judgement is applied when determining if an acquired entity is controlled by the Group, and whether the acquired entity meets the criteria to be defined as a subsidiary.
Control is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity.
However, if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist.
In assessing control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised.
Note 5 Separately disclosed items Judgement has been used by management to identify items that are material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature.
Separately disclosed items are those items included within operating profit that the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
Valuation of tax provisions Judgement and estimation is required to interpret international tax laws and the way that they interact within each jurisdiction, in order to identify and value provisions in relation to gaming taxes as applicable.
In addition to gaming taxes, judgement is required in relation to international tax laws including transfer pricing and controlled foreign companies.
Business combinations Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets, and also in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions where required by the terms of the agreement.
88 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Future accounting developments The following new standards, interpretations and amendments were issued by the IASB or the IFRIC but were not effective for the financial year and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts revision to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements revision to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, Investment Entities amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
The Directors have decided not to early adopt the above standards and they do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant impact for the Group.
2 Operating segments The Groups continuing operating businesses are organised and managed as reportable business segments according to the information which is used by the Groups CODM in making decisions about reporting matters.
Following the disposal of LMAX in the year ended 30 April 2013, the segment previously disclosed as Other Investments now only comprises Betfair US.
As a result, management considers that it is more appropriate to provide segmental disclosures as follows: Betfair excl.
US Exchange Sportsbook Gaming Management of customer funds Betfair US.
Exchange consists of the Exchange sports betting product and includes Timeform.
Sportsbook previously described as Sports consists of the Sportsbook product and Multiples.
Gaming consists of various Casino products and bespoke Exchange games products.
Tradefair Spreads and Poker are also classified within Gaming.
All of these gaming activities are played by customers in a number of geographical areas.
Exchange and Gaming meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 as reportable segments.
While Sportsbook and revenue from the Management of customer funds do not meet these requirements, these segments are separately disclosed as they are closely monitored by the CODM.
Betfair US including the TVG Network meets the quantitative threshold to be disclosed separately.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p p llc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 8 89 9 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 2 Operating segments continued The results of the Australian joint venture are consolidated in the Group accounts on an equity accounting basis.
As such only the net assets and the share of profits losses are presented in the operating segment note below.
If proportional consolidation was applied the Groups share of the Australian joint venture would have increased revenue by 15.4m 30 April 2013: 18.0m and decreased EBITDA by 0.1m 30 April 2013: increase of 2.1m.
The revenue from Exchange, Sportsbook, Gaming and the Management of customer funds represents the developed and integrated parts of the Groups business and has been grouped together as Betfair excl.
The Group focuses its internal management reporting predominantly on revenue, as the products potential to generate revenue is the chief driver of the Groups business and the allocation of resources.
The Groups cost base is to a large extent fixed in nature.
Corporate expenses, assets and liabilities cannot be allocated to individual operating segments and are not used by the CODM for making operating and resource allocation decisions.
However, expenses are allocated and reviewed by the CODM between Betfair excl.
US and Betfair US and the analysis of EBITDA for them is summarised below.
Management also reviews Group revenue on a geographic basis, determined by the location of the customers.
This information is analysed below on the following basis: UK Rest of World.
The majority of the Groups non-current assets are located in the UK.
Segmental information for the years ended 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2013 is as follows: Year ended 30 April 2014 Management of customer Betfair Betfair Gaming Exchange Sportsbook funds excl.
US US Group m m m m m m m 244.3 36.2 66.2 1.2 347.9 45.7 393.6 Revenue Underlying EBITDA 89.1 2.0 91.1 Separately disclosed items restructuring and other EBITDA 89.1 2.0 91.1 Depreciation and amortisation 29.5 Net finance income 0.7 Share of loss of equity accounted investments 1.2 Profit before tax 61.1 Tax 10.1 Profit after tax 51.0 Total assets 309.5 Total liabilities 138.1 90 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Year ended 30 April 2013 Management of customer Betfair Betfair Gaming Exchange Sportsbook funds excl.
US US Group m m m m m m m 247.5 24.1 75.9 1.5 349.0 38.0 387.0 Revenue Underlying EBITDA 70.4 2.9 73.3 Separately disclosed items restructuring and other 21.9 0.2 22.1 EBITDA 48.5 2.7 51.2 Depreciation and amortisation 37.8 Separately disclosed items - impairment 82.4 Profit on disposal of availablefor-sale financial asset 16.8 Net finance income 1.4 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 1.4 Profit before tax 49.4 Tax 4.2 Loss for the period from discontinued 21.1 operations Loss after tax and discontinued 66.3 operations Total assets 276.3 Total liabilities 144.3 Geographical information determined by location of customers is set out below: Year ended 30 April 2014 Rest of Rest of World World UK Total Other Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Group m m m m m Betfair excl.
US 246.4 14.0 260.4 87.5 347.9 Betfair US 45.7 45.7 45.7 Total Group revenue 246.4 59.7 306.1 87.5 393.6 Year ended 30 April 2013 Rest of Rest of World World UK Total Other Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Group m m m m m Betfair excl.
The CODM believes it is more reliable to assess the performance of the Groups operations by analysing revenue on a residency basis following regulatory changes in a number of jurisdictions.
Comparatives for the year ended 30 April 2013 have therefore been restated accordingly.
Revenue derived from customers located in Ireland is classified within UK.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 9 91 1 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 3 Profit loss before tax Profit loss before tax is stated after charging: 2014 2013 m m Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs 7.3 9.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12.1 17.0 Amortisation of capitalised development costs 10.2 15.6 Amortisation of other intangibles 7.2 7.5 Rentals payable under operating leases 5.7 8.7 Research and non-capitalised development costs 44.4 51.0 Auditors remuneration: 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.5 Other services pursuant to legislation review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation profit estimate procedures 0.1 Tax services 0.4 0.1 Transaction advisory 0.1 Total 1.1 1.0 Amounts paid to the Companys auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
4 Employee numbers and costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2014 2013 No.
Technology 750 911 Sales and marketing 339 363 Operations 428 446 G&A 222 346 Total 1,739 2,066 The prior year employee numbers include the average number of persons of 71 employed by the Groups discontinued operation LMAX.
The categories above disclosing the average number of persons employed has been amended to reflect the new operating structure of the Group.
Prior year numbers have been disclosed in a manner consistent with this revised structure.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 80.6 104.7 Social security costs 10.3 10.8 Redundancy costs 3.0 Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs note 20 7.3 9.3 Pension costs 1.9 2.4 Total 103.1 127.2 The prior year numbers include the aggregate payroll costs of 5.5m in relation to the Groups discontinued operation LMAX.
Redundancy costs for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 15.9m were classified as Separately disclosed items restructuring and other as they related to a major restructuring initiative and were therefore not disclosed in the aggregate payroll costs above.
Details on the remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 67.
92 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those items included within operating profit that the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
Restructuring and other 2014 2013 m m Restructuring costs 19.4 Costs incurred on corporate projects 2.7 Total 22.1 During the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group incurred costs of 19.4m, which related to restructuring and cost optimisation initiatives see note 18, and 2.7m in relation to professional fees resulting from the rejected takeover approach by CVC and partners.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 2014 2013 m m Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 82.4 As at 30 April 2013, following the announcement of the Groups strategic priorities during the first six months of that financial year, management undertook a review of the carrying value of all intangible assets, including goodwill and capitalised development expenditure.
As a result of this review, an impairment charge of 82.4m was recorded in the income statement see note 11.
6 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 2014 2013 m m Profit on sale of investment 16.8 On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its shares held in Kabam for $30m 18.8m see note 13.
7 Finance income and expense Recognised in income statement 2014 2013 m m Finance income Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.1 Foreign exchange gain 0.3 Total 1.1 1.4 2014 2013 m m Finance expense Foreign exchange loss 0.4 Total 0.4 BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 9 93 3 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 8 Tax Recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 m m Current tax UK current year 5.8 4.1 UK adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.9 0.6 Overseas current year 4.1 0.9 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.2 Current tax expense 9.0 4.2 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 8.2 Tax rate reduction 0.4 0.2 Deferred tax 1.1 8.4 Total tax expense credit 10.1 4.2 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2014 2013 m m Profit loss before tax 61.1 49.4 Total tax expense credit 10.1 4.2 Profit loss for the year 51.0 45.2 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 22.8% 2013: 23.9% 13.9 11.8 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 5.5 0.9 Non-deductible expenses 5.6 15.5 Tax rate reduction 0.4 0.2 Current year income statement credit charge for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 2.5 1.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.8 0.6 Group relief claimed for no payment 3.6 Tax exempt revenues 4.0 Total tax expense credit 10.1 4.2 Tax recognised directly in equity 2014 2013 m m Other deferred tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments 0.1 0.9 Deferred tax 0.1 0.9 Current tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments 0.3 0.8 Total tax 0.2 0.1 94 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Groups consolidated effective tax rate for the year was 16.5% 30 April 2013: 8.5%.
The tax effect of separately disclosed items and impairment in the year amounted to nil 30 April 2013: tax credit of 10.4m.
The 2013 Budget on 25 March 2013 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015.
A reduction in the rate from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012, and further reductions to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and 20% effective from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax liability at 30 April 2014 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2014 was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of 51.0m 30 April 2013: loss of 66.3m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 103,975,695 30 April 2013: 101,854,246.
The weighted average number of shares has been adjusted for amounts held by the Groups EBT.
2014 2013 Profit loss for the year m 51.0 66.3 Weighted average number of shares 103,975,695 101,854,246 Basic earnings loss per share 49.0p 65.1 p Diluted earnings loss per share 48.1p 65.1 p The loss per share calculations in the prior year include the results of the discontinued operations.
Please see page 75 for the disclosure of basic and diluted earnings per share for the continuing operations of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2013.
All earnings in the current year relate to continuing operations.
Diluted earnings per share The calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2014 was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of 51.0m 30 April 2013: loss of 66.3m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares of 106,019,686 30 April 2013: 103,378,698.
As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share for the year ended 30 April 2013, they have not been treated as dilutive.
Profit loss used to determine diluted earnings loss per share 2014 2013 m m Profit loss used to determine diluted earnings loss per share 51.0 66.3 Weighted average number of shares diluted 2014 2013 Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 103,975,695 101,854,246 Effect of share options on issue 2,043,991 1,524,452 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 106,019,686 103,378,698 The average market value of the Companys shares of 9.89 2013: 7.33 was used to calculate the dilutive effect of share options based on the market value for the year that the options were outstanding.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 9 95 5 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10 Property, plant and equipment Equipment, fixtures Freehold land Leasehold Computer and and buildings improvements equipment fittings Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2012 0.8 13.0 90.1 9.0 112.9 Additions 2.2 4.2 0.8 7.2 Disposals 0.9 0.2 0.6 1.7 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 0.4 4.4 0.1 4.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.8 At 30 April 2013 0.8 14.0 90.3 9.2 114.3 Additions 0.4 2.7 5.4 8.5 Disposals 1.0 0.3 1.3 Net foreign exchange differences 0.2 0.4 0.5 1.1 At 30 April 2014 0.8 14.2 91.6 13.8 120.4 Depreciation At 1 May 2012 0.1 5.2 69.4 4.5 79.2 Depreciation for the year 2.5 12.7 1.8 17.0 Impairment 1.9 1.3 0.1 3.3 Disposals 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.2 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 0.4 4.4 0.1 4.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 30 April 2013 0.1 8.5 79.0 6.1 93.7 Depreciation for the year 1.6 9.3 1.2 12.1 Disposals 0.9 0.1 1.0 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.4 1.1 At 30 April 2014 0.1 10.0 86.8 6.8 103.7 Net book value At 30 April 2013 0.7 5.5 11.3 3.1 20.6 At 30 April 2014 0.7 4.2 4.8 7.0 16.7 In the year ended 30 April 2013, additions totalling 1.3m and depreciation totalling 0.4m was recognised in respect of discontinued operations see note 27.
Except for 1.8m of leasehold improvements, the impairment relates solely to the assets of the discontinued operation.
96 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets Broadcasting and Computer Development Customer wagering Goodwill software Licences expenditure Brand lists technologies Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2012 54.0 31.0 1.6 110.5 2.0 3.9 0.9 203.9 Other acquisitions internally developed 18.9 18.9 Other acquisitions externally purchased 3.5 3.2 5.3 12.0 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 13.9 13.9 Net foreign exchange differences 1.8 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.3 At 30 April 2013 55.8 34.5 1.6 118.8 2.1 9.4 0.9 223.1 Other acquisitions internally developed 7.4 7.4 Other acquisitions externally purchased 1.0 0.6 4.9 6.5 Net foreign exchange differences 2.8 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.1 3.8 At 30 April 2014 53.0 35.5 2.1 130.8 1.9 9.1 0.8 233.2 Amortisation At 1 May 2012 15.2 1.3 49.1 2.0 3.2 0.7 71.5 Amortisation for the year 6.4 0.1 15.6 1.0 23.1 Impairment 34.6 5.1 47.0 0.1 86.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 13.9 13.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.1 At 30 April 2013 35.3 26.6 1.5 97.8 2.1 4.4 0.8 168.5 Amortisation for the year 3.7 0.7 10.2 2.7 0.1 17.4 Net foreign exchange differences 1.2 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.1 2.0 At 30 April 2014 34.1 30.3 2.1 108.0 1.9 6.7 0.8 183.9 Net book value At 30 April 2013 20.5 7.9 0.1 21.0 5.0 0.1 54.6 At 30 April 2014 18.9 5.2 22.8 2.4 49.3 Computer software represents software licences which have been purchased from suppliers.
Licences represent bookmaking licences held by the Group.
Development expenditure represents internally and externally generated costs incurred on development activities.
These costs have been capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The remaining other intangibles represent assets purchased as part of the TVG Network acquisition being brand, customer lists and broadcasting and wagering technologies and the customer database purchased as part of the Blue Square Bet acquisition in March 2013.
These are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which fall between two to six years.
The amortisation charge of intangible assets is recognised within Administrative expenses in the income statement.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 9 97 7 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued In the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group capitalised development expenditure amounting to 1.5m, incurred amortisation of 1.9m and impaired assets amounting to 6.2m in respect of the discontinued operations.
Goodwill At 30 April 2014, the carrying amount of goodwill, after the impairment review, was 18.9m 2013: 20.5m allocated across one 2013: one CGU as follows: 2014 2013 m m CGU TVG 18.9 20.5 Total goodwill net book value at 30 April 18.9 20.5 All goodwill is recorded in local currency.
Additions are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment testing Goodwill Goodwill is tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts.
Where the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are considered as not impaired.
No impairment charges were incurred in the year ended 30 April 2014 2013: 34.6m.
The TVG CGU is the assets and operations of the TVG Network, which is included in the Groups Betfair US operating segment as disclosed in note 2.
Testing is carried out by allocating the carrying value of these assets to CGUs and determining the recoverable amounts of those CGUs through value in use calculations.
The calculation is based on projecting future pre-tax cash flows over a five year period and uses a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model, which reflects the expected long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
The budgets for the next financial year, which are subject to Board approval, form the basis of the cash flow projections for each CGU.
Cash flow projections for the next four financial years reflect managements expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in each CGUs markets and regions, and have been modelled in line with historic patterns experienced by the Group in recent years, where relevant.
Growth rates used do not exceed expectations of long-term growth in the local market.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The discount rate is estimated by the Group using a range of equity costs for similar companies and external market data, with samples chosen where applicable from the same markets or territories as the CGU.
The calculation of value in use for goodwill is sensitive to the following key assumptions: i Operating cash flow One of the key drivers of operating cash flow is revenue as the calculation of the recoverable amount of TVG goodwill is sensitive to future developments in US horseracing.
The 2015 revenue figures for the CGU are based on the budget for the next financial year.
For the years 2016 to 2019, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience, growth prospects in regions and historic player patterns.
The terminal growth rate used was nil% 2013: 2.0%.
The management consider the assumed growth rate to be very conservative.
ii Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU.
For the TVG CGU, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% 2013: 12.5% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows for that CGU.
As discussed on page 23, the TVG business performed positively during the financial year.
As a result, there are no reasonable changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of the CGU to exceed the recoverable amount.
98 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Impairment charges in respect of the year ended 30 April 2013 Goodwill Impairment charges of 34.6m were recognised in the year ended 30 April 2013 in relation to goodwill.
These charges arose as a result of changes to the strategic direction of the business following the appointment of new management.
In prior periods, goodwill was allocated to the following CGUs in line with Groups previous segmental reporting: Sports Games Poker TVG.
As a result of the changes in the strategic direction, it was considered necessary to monitor goodwill at a more granular level and therefore the carrying value of goodwill was assessed with reference to the original business that was acquired.
The table below sets out each relevant acquisition, the CGU to which the goodwill was previously assigned, the impairment charge recorded and the new reportable segment following the new organisational structure to which the impairment relates: Impairment charge 30 April 2013 Historical acquisition CGU m Reportable segment Timeform Sports 6.1 Exchange Betfair TV Sports 2.6 Exchange TSE Development Romania Games 2.3 Gaming Poker Champs Poker 10.0 Gaming TVG TVG 13.6 Betfair US The change in strategic direction of the Group meant that zero or negative cash flows were anticipated in respect of Timeform, Betfair TV, TSE Development Romania and Poker Champs.
No discount rate was applied to these cash flows as the impact of any discount rate would be immaterial as the value in use was deemed nil.
Following regulatory developments in the US, management also undertook a strategic review of the US market and TVGs position within that market.
As a result of this review, the TVG CGU was impaired by 13.6m.
The key changes to assumptions since the previous impairment test related to an anticipated reduction in operating margins and future growth rates.
A pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% was used.
Development expenditure and software As part of the strategic review conducted in the year ended 30 April 2013, management also performed a detailed review of the carrying value of capitalised development costs.
Those projects which were no longer in use as part of the change in the strategic direction were impaired resulting in a charge of 47.0m.
This charge included the impairment of the development costs incurred in building the US Exchange 10.4m and the LMAX Exchange 6.2m.
The charge in respect of LMAX was included within the loss from discontinued operations as a result of the LMAX sale see note 27.
The remaining 30.4m impairment charge related to specific projects where the anticipated returns no longer supported the carrying value as a result of the change in strategic focus of the business.
Following a review of the carrying value of the Groups software assets, an impairment charge of 5.1m was also recorded in the year ended 30 April 2013 as a result of the change in strategic direction.
BB ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou u p p p p llc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd d A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 9 99 9 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 12 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities The interest in the Groups joint venture, Betfair Australasia Pty Limited, is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Share of net liabilities At the beginning of the year 0.3 1.7 Share of operating loss profit 1.4 1.1 Share of interest receivable 0.2 0.3 Foreign exchange differences 0.3 At the end of the year 1.2 0.3 Goodwill At the beginning of the year 0.4 0.4 At the end of the year 0.4 0.4 Loan At the beginning of the year 7.8 7.5 Foreign exchange differences 1.5 0.3 At the end of the year 6.3 7.8 Net book value At the beginning of the year 7.9 6.2 At the end of the year 5.5 7.9 The table below presents the summary aggregated financial information of the Groups joint venture Betfair Australasia Pty Limited at 100%.
2014 2013 m m Current assets 10.5 16.6 Non-current assets 5.3 4.7 Total liabilities 9.8 13.3 Revenue 30.9 36.0 Expenses 31.4 34.0 100 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Group and Company have the following principal investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities: Ordinary Country of origin Principal activity Classification shares held % The Sporting Exchange Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Limited England Support services Subsidiary 100 The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited England Trust operator Subsidiary 100 Timeform Limited England Publisher Subsidiary 100 TSE Global Limited England Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Development Limited England Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100 TSE Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE International Ltd England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow One Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Two England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Three Limited Cayman Islands Investment and holding Subsidiary 100 company Winslow Four Cayman Islands Investment and holding Subsidiary 100 company TSE Gibraltar LP Gibraltar Online sports betting Subsidiary 100 TSE Data Processing Limited Ireland Data centre and support Subsidiary 100 services Polco Limited Malta Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100 and online sports betting Betfair Games Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Casino Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Counterparty Services Limited Malta Online sports betting Subsidiary 100 Betfair Entertainment Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair International Plc Malta Online sports betting and Subsidiary 100 gaming Betfair Marketing Limited Malta Marketing activities Subsidiary 100 Betfair Holding Malta Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Poker Holdings Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Italia S. R. L. Italy Online sports betting and Subsidiary 100 gaming TSE Development Romania S. R. L. Romania R&D activities Subsidiary 100 TSE Services Limited Gibraltar Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Marketing Espaa Spain Marketing activities Subsidiary 100 The Rebate Company LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 TSE US Holdings LLC USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE US LLC USA R&D activities Subsidiary 100 ODS Holdings LLC USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 ODS Technologies LP USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Trackside Live Productions LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 ODS Properties Inc USA Property holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Interactive US LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 TSED Unipessoal LDA Portugal R&D activities Subsidiary 100 Tradefair Spreads Limited England Spread betting services Subsidiary 99.75 London Multi Asset Exchange Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 99.75 Betfair Pty Limited Australia Bookmaking Joint venture 50 Betfair Development Pty Limited Australia Intellectual property licensor Joint venture 50 Betfair Australasia Pty Limited Australia Holding company Joint venture 50 LMAX Limited England Trading Investment 31.4 Non-controlling interest of 0.25% exists in relation to Tradefair Spreads Limited and London Multi Asset Exchange Holdings Limited.
The value of this non-controlling interest was less than 0.1m at 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2013.
The Sporting Exchange Limited is held directly by Betfair Group plc.
All other subsidiaries are held indirectly.
Other direct holdings of the Group and Company have been excluded in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 s410, as they are not deemed to be significant to these accounts.
A full list of the Group and Company subsidiaries will be included in the next annual return.
B B ee tf tf a a ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt t a and nd A Ac cc co ou u n n t t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 10 01 1 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 13 Available-for-sale financial assets At 30 April 2014 and 2013, the available-for-sale financial assets comprised the Groups 9.9% fully diluted holdings of 8.9% noncontrolling interest in Featurespace Limited 0.1m and non-controlling interest in LMAX Limited of 31.4% 1.2m.
The Group does not have significant influence over the operations and decision making of LMAX Limited and does not have any representation on the board.
The Groups holding in LMAX Limited decreased from 33% to 31.4% on 5 March 2014 as a result of new share issues by LMAX Limited.
On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its shares held in Kabam for $30m 18.8m.
2014 2013 m m At 1 May 1.3 2.1 Disposals 2.0 Reclassification of remaining shares held in LMAX 1.2 At 30 April 1.3 1.3 14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 5.8 6.3 5.8 6.3 Intangible assets 4.1 4.3 4.1 4.3 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 and associated costs Other 1.2 1.9 1.2 1.9 Deferred tax assets liabilities 8.0 9.4 4.1 4.3 3.9 5.1 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 8.9m 2013: 12.3m, unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of depreciation in excess of capital allowances of 0.8m 2013: 1.0m, unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of sharebased payments of 0.6m 2013: 1.9m and unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of intangible assets of nil 2013: 0.5m.
These have not been recognised on the basis that there is insufficient certainty of there being future taxable profits in those jurisdictions.
Movements in deferred tax are as follows: Property, Tax value of plant and Intangible Share-based loss carryequipment assets payments forwards Other Total m m m m m m Balance at 1 May 2012 4.1 12.4 3.6 1.3 1.4 2.0 Adjustment in respect of disposal 0.3 0.1 0.4 of discontinued operations Recognised in income statement 2.5 8.2 1.5 1.3 0.5 8.4 Recognised in equity 0.9 0.9 Balance at 30 April 2013 6.3 4.3 1.2 1.9 5.1 Recognised in income statement 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.7 1.1 Recognised in equity 0.1 0.1 Balance at 30 April 2014 5.8 4.1 1.0 1.2 3.9 15 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 2.2 2.2 Other receivables 5.4 3.9 Prepayments 15.4 12.6 Total 23.0 18.7 102 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 209.8 168.1 The above cash and cash equivalents include 9.0m 2013: 8.9m of customer funds that are not held on trust in The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited in accordance with local regulations.
These customer funds that are not held on trust are matched by liabilities of an equal value as disclosed in note 17.
The cash and cash equivalent also includes an additional 0.9m of restricted cash relating to the Groups financial guarantees 2013: 5.1m.
As at 30 April 2014, 269.0m 2013: 284.1m was held on trust in The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, on behalf of the Groups customers and is equal to the amounts deposited into customer accounts.
17 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 8.1 5.5 Other payables 21.2 22.7 Amounts owed to joint ventures 2.1 3.2 Other taxation and social security 4.3 7.3 Accruals 76.1 70.9 Total 111.8 109.6 Included in other payables at 30 April 2014 is an amount of 9.0m 2013: 8.9m in respect of amounts due to customers, representing deposits received and customer winnings which are not held on trust.
This is offset by an equivalent amount of customer funds held, which is included in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 16.
18 Provisions Redundancy Onerous provision contracts Total m m m Balance at 1 May 2012 Provision accounted for in the year 9.7 1.9 11.6 Current provisions 30 April 2013 9.7 1.9 11.6 Utilised in the period 9.7 1.6 11.3 Reclassification from non-current 0.9 0.9 Current provisions 30 April 2014 1.2 1.2 Balance at 1 May 2012 Provision accounted for in the year 1.6 1.6 Non-current provisions 30 April 2013 1.6 1.6 Reclassification to current 0.9 0.9 Non-current provisions 30 April 2014 0.7 0.7 Non-current provisions reflect contractual obligations that will be settled more than 12 months after the reporting date.
During the period, 0.9m has been reclassified from non-current provisions to current provisions.
The redundancy provision held at 30 April 2013 related to costs incurred as part of restructuring and cost optimisation initiatives.
All affected employees have now departed the Group.
Onerous contracts relate to provisions made in relation to operating leases for premises that were vacated during the year ended 30 April 2013 as part of the restructuring.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t and nd A Ac cc co ou un n t t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 10 03 3 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 19 Equity Share capital Ordinary shares 2014 2013 No.
As at 1 May 104,221,610 102,328,826 Issued by the Group in relation to: Exercised share options and restricted shares 704,426 1,864,890 Exercised SAYE options 62,294 27,894 Total fully paid, ordinary shares of 0.001 each as at 30 April 104,988,330 104,221,610 2014 2013 m m Allotted, called up and fully paid 104,988,330 ordinary shares of 0.001 each 30 April 2013: 104,221,610 0.1 0.1 During the year, the Group received consideration of 2.2m 30 April 2013: 7.3m for the exercise of 704,426 30 April 2013: 1,864,890 share options and restricted shares and 0.3m 30 April 2013: 0.1m for the exercise of 62,294 30 April 2013: 27,894 SAYE options, resulting in total consideration from the issue of shares of 2.5m 30 April 2013: 7.4m.
Exercise prices ranged from 0.001 to 10.00.
The Employee Benefit Trust held 1,515,096 ordinary shares in the Company as at 30 April 2014 30 April 2013: 2,640,497.
Other reserves Other reserves mainly comprise tax directly recognised in equity.
Translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences on the revaluation of foreign currency entities and long-term foreign currency balances considered to be quasi-equity in nature.
20 Share-based payments The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the year: a Share option plans b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes c Restricted share scheme d Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Share Incentive Plan, Short Term Incentive Plan and Management Incentive Plan e Senior Executives Incentive Plan f Stakeholder shares scheme.
As at 30 April 2014, 2,089,435 share options and restricted shares 2013: 3,278,704 in the capital of the Group remain outstanding and are exercisable up to 30 April 2024.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 30 April 2006.
The total expense recognised in respect of these schemes was 6.5m excluding Employers National Insurance costs for the year ended 30 April 2014 30 April 2013: 8.5m.
Employers National Insurance costs amount to 0.8m 30 April 2013: 0.8m.
The fair value of the options Share option plans and SAYE share option schemes is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected term used in the model is based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The expected dividend yield and volatility was calculated based on the historical yield and historical volatility of the Company since initial listing on the London Stock Exchange.
104 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 a Share option plans Under the Groups share option plans, options may be granted to the Directors and employees to purchase ordinary shares.
No consideration is payable on the grant of an option.
Options typically vest over a period of four years and the term of the options may not exceed ten years.
Share options are granted under a service condition.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
Options vest subject to continued employment although certain employees may be given extended vesting dates after their employment ceases.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is 4.77 2013: 4.35 at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 9.51 2013: 7.58.
The fair value of the options is expensed over the period that the options vest.
The following assumptions were used in the BlackScholes pricing model for these options: Financial year options granted 2004 2013 Share price at date of grant 0.40 10.00 Exercise price 0.001 10.00 Expected volatility 32.51% 62.71% Expected term until exercised 1 5 years Expected dividend yield Nil 0.8% Risk-free interest rate 0.35% 5.79% There were no options granted under the share option plan during the year ended 30 April 2014 2013: 10,036.
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted during the year ended 30 April 2013 under the share option plan at the date of grant was 5.05.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs was a charge of nil 2013: credit of 0.1m.
The Group provides for National Insurance contributions, where necessary, on options which were granted to certain employees on or after 6 April 1999 under its unapproved share option schemes.
The charge is based on the expected timing of future exercises of the share options and the market value of the underlying shares expected at those dates in those cases where the liability has not been passed onto the employee.
b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes The Group operates an HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme in which all UK employees and some international employees can participate.
Participants save a fixed amount of up to 250 per month for three years and are then able to use these savings to buy shares in the Group at a price fixed at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
There are no market conditions associated with the SAYE option grants.
The SAYE options must ordinarily be exercised within six months of completing the relevant savings period, and are satisfied through the issue of new shares.
In line with market practice, the exercise of these options is not subject to any performance condition.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t and nd A Ac cc co ou un nt t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 10 05 5 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 20 Share-based payments continued b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes continued Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Financial year granted 2013 the year year year 2014 before 2010 22,720 16,053 6,667 8.00 2013 2012 462,544 135,522 55,627 271,395 5.68 2015 2014 231,173 20,823 210,350 8.17 2017 485,264 231,173 172,398 62,294 481,745 The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is 5.96 2013: 6.13 at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 9.93 2013: 7.38.
The fair value of the SAYE share options is expensed over the service period based on the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Financial year options granted 2014 2010 2013 Share price at date of grant 10.13 2.71 10.00 Exercise price 8.17 2.17 8.00 Expected volatility 33.36% 40.07% 54.40% Expected term until exercised 3.25 years 3.25 years Expected dividend yield 1.29% Nil 0.69% Risk-free interest rate 0.94% 0.84% 5.08% There were 231,173 SAYE options granted during the year ended 30 April 2014 30 April 2013: nil.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted in the year ended 30 April 2014 was 3.40.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs was 0.4m 2013: 0.9m.
c Restricted shares schemes The Group provided a restricted shares scheme as part of its bonus plan until 2010.
In 2011, the bonus plan was revised with the introduction of the Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Share Incentive Plan, Short Term Incentive Plan and Management Incentive Plan.
Refer to note 20 d. Awards made under the terms of the restricted shares scheme plan prior to 2010 have vested.
These were expensed over the remaining vesting period of the originally granted share options.
These have a range of vesting periods of up to three years from the first day of the award to which they relate and one-third of the shares will vest each year for three years.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 0.001 2013: 0.001 at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 9.94 2013: 7.87.
The total expense recognised in the income statement related to the restricted shares excluding Employers National Insurance costs was 1.4m 2013: 2.8m.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.2m 2013: 0.3m.
106 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 d Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Share Incentive Plan, Short Term Incentive Plan and Management Incentive Plan The following shares were introduced to incentivise and reward for the successful delivery of the short-term and long-term business strategy: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which consists of share options and restricted share awards: Short Term Incentive Plan STIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards: Management Incentive Plan MIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards: and Deferred Share Incentive Plan DSIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards.
The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share options and restricted shares.
Determining the fair value of each element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each share-based payment category.
The level of award granted in each of the schemes is based on a mixture of the individual performance of the employee and the Group wide performance over the term of the award which is between one and three years.
The fair value of the share options in the LTIP scheme is expensed over the three year period that the options vest.
No grants were awarded in the current year which included option elements.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model for options conditionally granted in the year ended 30 April 2012: Financial year options granted 2012 Share price at date of grant 8.56 Exercise price 8.56 Expected volatility 43.91% Expected term until exercised 4 years Expected dividend yield Nil Risk-free interest rate 1.97% The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are fixed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the awards are issued.
The cash award represents two-thirds of the total award.
There is no option given to elect to have these issued in shares.
The cash element issued is classified as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a cash settled share-based payment on the basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP, DSIP, STIP and MIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP scheme vest at the end of the third year.
The vesting period of the STIP, MIP and DSIP restricted shares vest over the second and third year of the scheme.
An expense of 4.7m for the options and restricted shares has been recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs which is managements best estimate of the charge in respect of these awards for the current year 2013: 4.3m.
The cash element of the scheme has been included in the bonus cash pool for the performance year ended 30 April 2014.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.6m 2013: 0.5m.
e Senior Executives Incentive Plan The long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan entailed certain senior management and Directors being granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon the admission of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half will vest on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing subject to continued employment.
The expense recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs was nil 2013: 0.6m.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to nil 2013: 0.1m.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt t a and nd A Ac cc co ou u n n t t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 10 07 7 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 20 Share-based payments continued e Senior Executives Incentive Plan continued Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during the during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2013 year year year 2014 before 2011 462,122 335,606 126,516 0.001 2021 The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 0.001 2013: 0.001 at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 9.30 2013: 7.44. f Stakeholder award scheme During 2011, the Group issued restricted shares and phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the stakeholder award scheme.
The scheme relates to the individual employees performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010.
The restricted shares and phantom shares have a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme are convertible into shares upon vest date and they are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the scheme are only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant 1 May 2010: 10.00.
No expense was incurred in the year ended 30 April 2014 2013: nil.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during the during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2013 year year year 2014 before 2011 93,311 8,561 49,529 35,221 0.001 2020 The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 0.001 2013: 0.001 at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 9.39 2013: 7.42.
21 Employee benefits Defined contribution plans In August 2008, the Group introduced a defined contribution pension plan available to certain employees.
The total expense shown within pension costs disclosed in note 4 relating to this plan in the current year was 1.9m 2013: 2.4m.
22 Financial instruments The carrying value of the Groups financial instruments by category, together with their fair values, is analysed as follows: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets note 13 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables note 15 7.6 7.6 6.1 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 16 209.8 209.8 168.1 168.1 Financial liabilities Fair value through the income statement Derivative financial liability note 22 b 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables note 17 29.3 29.3 28.2 28.2 Amounts owed to joint ventures note 17 2.1 2.1 3.2 3.2 Net financial assets 187.2 187.2 144.0 144.0 108 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 a Fair values of financial instruments Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1.
Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables is valued at fair value less any provision for bad debts.
The fair value is estimated using the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date if the effect is material.
Cash and cash equivalents The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity.
Trade and other payables and amounts owed to joint ventures The fair value of trade and other payables and amounts owed to joint ventures is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date if the effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise sports betting open positions.
The fair value of open sports bets at the year end has been calculated using the latest available prices on the Groups own markets on relevant sporting events.
The fair value calculation also includes the impact of any exchange hedging activities in relation to these open positions.
The table below sets out fair value measurements using the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 1.3 1.3 Fair value of open bets 0.1 0.1 Net position 1.2 1.2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2013 2013 2013 2013 m m m m Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 1.3 1.3 Fair value of open bets 0.1 0.1 Net position 1.2 1.2 Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset as follows: Level 1 valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 Level 3 valued by reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
There have been no transfers during the year between levels 1 and 2.
The fair value of open bet liabilities are classified as level 2 in the hierarchy using observable inputs other than quoted prices.
The principal assumptions relate to anticipated gross win margins on unsettled bets with the fair value determined by future sporting results.
b Financial risk management The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Risk management policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and monitored to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations surrounding risk management.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Liquidity risk Market risk including currency risk and interest risk Credit risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to the above risks as well as outlining the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing financial risk and the measurement of capital.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt a t and nd A Ac cc co ou un nt t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 10 09 9 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 22 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
The Groups financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect of netting agreements summarised in the table below, all have contractual maturities of one year or less as at 30 April 2014.
Carrying amount 2014 2013 m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables note 17 29.3 28.2 Amounts owed to joint ventures note 17 2.1 3.2 Derivative financial liabilities Open bet liability within Accruals 0.1 0.1 Total 31.5 31.5 The maturity analysis of the financial liabilities is as follows: 30 April 2014 030 days 3160 days 6190 days 91 days Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 28.0 0.7 0.1 0.5 29.3 Derivative financial liability 0.1 0.1 Amounts owed to joint ventures 2.1 2.1 30 April 2013 030 days 3160 days 6190 days 91 days Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 26.7 0.7 0.3 0.5 28.2 Derivative financial liability 0.1 0.1 Amounts owed to joint ventures 3.2 3.2 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The management of market risk is performed by the Group under the supervision of the Corporate Risk Committee and according to the guidelines approved by them.
The Group will utilise hedges where there is an identified requirement to manage profit or loss volatility.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Pounds Sterling GBP.
The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated are US Dollars USD, Euros EUR and Australian Dollars AUD.
110 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Group does not normally hedge against these sales and purchases.
However, the Group monitors all foreign currency exposures and where appropriate may undertake currency hedging to mitigate the risk of unfavourable foreign exchange movements on specific commitments the Group enters into.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows.
This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments except derivatives when it is based on notional amounts: 30 April 2014 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 180.9 14.1 11.9 2.0 0.9 209.8 Trade payables 6.7 1.2 0.1 0.1 8.1 Balance sheet exposure 174.2 12.9 11.8 2.0 0.8 201.7 30 April 2013 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 138.8 15.3 12.1 0.9 1.0 168.1 Trade payables 4.0 1.4 0.1 5.5 Balance sheet exposure 134.8 13.9 12.0 0.9 1.0 162.6 Sensitivity analysis A 15.0% weakening of Pounds Sterling against the following currencies at 30 April would have increased decreased equity and income statement by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
Equity Income statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Foreign currency EUR 1.2 0.2 0.9 2.7 USD 1.9 0.2 2.1 AUD 0.4 0.2 A 15.0% strengthening of Pounds Sterling against the following currencies at 30 April 2014 would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Interest rate risk The Group has no bank loans and therefore is not exposed to interest rate risk on its liabilities.
At the balance sheet date the Groups interest-bearing financial assets were as follows: 2014 2013 m m Variable rate instruments Financial assets cash and cash equivalents 209.8 168.1 Sensitivity analysis An increase of 200 and a decrease of 200 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
The rationale behind the 2.0% sensitivity analysis is that interest rates in the UK have been low due to the economic climate and any increase or decrease greater than 2.0% is unlikely to occur.
B B e e tf tf a a ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nua ual R l Re ep po or rt t a and nd A Ac cc co ou u n n tt s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 11 111 1 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 22 Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk continued This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.
2014 2013 m m Profit or loss Increase 3.8 3.5 Decrease 1.1 1.1 Credit risk Credit counterparty risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investments.
Group treasury policy and objectives in relation to credit risk is to minimise the likelihood that the Group will experience financial loss due to counterparty failure and to ensure that in the event of a single loss, the failure of any single counterparty would not materially impact the financial wellbeing of the Group.
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only depositing surplus funds on a short-term basis.
The ring-fenced customer funds held by the Group in trust are spread across leading banking groups with the main aim of reducing risk as opposed to maximising income.
As of 30 April 2014, the trade receivables balance was 2.2m 2013: 2.2m of which 1.3m is current and 0.9m is past due.
An amount of 0.3m 2013: 0.7m of the gross trade receivable balance has been provided for.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
Therefore, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was 217.4m 2013: 174.2m being the total of the carrying amount of the financial assets excluding equity investments, shown in note 22 a.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 19.
The Group regularly monitors capital on the basis of gross cash defined as cash and cash equivalents which was 209.8m at 30 April 2014 30 April 2013: 168.1m.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor and creditor confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group finances its operations through retained earnings and the management of working capital and has sufficient capital for its needs.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
As discussed in the Chairmans Statement on page 4, the Board targets a progressive and sustainable dividend and continues to consider the appropriate payout ratio to be approximately 40% of profit after tax in the medium term.
23 Operating leases The Group had total future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2014 2013 m m Not later than one year 5.6 6.3 Later than one year and not later than five years 12.9 14.6 Later than five years 2.3 3.5 Total 20.8 24.4 Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group for office properties.
These leases have varying terms, escalation charges and renewal rights.
During the year 5.7m was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2013: 8.7m.
112 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Capital commitments Contracted but not provided for in the financial statements: 2014 2013 m m Capital 0.6 0.2 Marketing 14.1 3.3 Total 14.7 3.5 25 Related parties Group Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Betfair Pty Limited During the year the Group recharged the Australian joint venture, Betfair Pty Limited, the following costs: operational costs amounting to 4.6m 2013: 1.5m.
During the year the Australian joint venture recharged the Group the following costs: salary and related costs amounting to nil 2013: 0.3m : and operational costs amounting to 2.9m 2013: 2.7m.
The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2014 of loans receivable from the Australian joint venture is 6.3m 2013: 7.8m.
The balance is not interest bearing.
In addition to the recharges detailed above, the Group collects revenue on behalf of the joint venture and to a lesser extent the Australian joint venture collects revenue on behalf of the Group.
As at 30 April 2014, the Group owed 2.1m 2013: 3.2m to the Australian joint venture.
Featurespace Limited During the year the Group was charged 0.1m 2013: 0.2m for consultancy services by Featurespace Limited in which the Group has a non-controlling interest.
LMAX Limited The Group utilised tax losses amounting to 1.1m that were transferred from LMAX limited, for consideration of 0.3m 2013: the Group recharged LMAX Limited costs amounting to 0.4m and were recharged costs amounting to 0.2m prior to the disposal.
This consideration remained payable to LMAX Limited as at 30 April 2014 2013: nil and is included within Other payables.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel compensation, including the Groups Directors and Non-Executive Directors, is shown in the table below: 2014 2013 m m Short-term benefits 5.4 6.1 Share-based payment expense 4.6 5.6 Total 10.0 11.7 26 Dividends 2014 2013 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 9.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2012: 7.0p 9.3 7.1 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 April 2014 of 6.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2013: 4.0p 6.3 4.1 Total 15.6 11.2 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2014 is 14.0 pence per share 2013: 9.0 pence.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The estimated dividend to be paid amounts to 14.6m.
B B ee tf ta fa ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt t a and nd A Ac cc co ou u n n t t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 11 13 3 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 26 Dividends continued Returns to shareholders in respect of the financial years ended 30 April 2011, 2012 and 2013 The Company has paid a final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2011 and interim and final dividends for the years ended 30 April 2012 and 2013 the Dividends.
The Company has recently been advised that, as a result of certain changes to the technical guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accounts in England and Wales the ICAEW in October 2010, the Company did not have sufficient distributable reserves to make those distributions and so they should not have been paid by the Company to its shareholders.
In addition, certain purchases of ordinary shares made by the Company in the year ended 30 April 2012 the Purchases of Ordinary Shares were not effectively carried out because, although the purchases had been approved by shareholders, the Company did not have sufficient distributable reserves for the reasons stated above.
These purchases of 6,506,009 ordinary shares of 0.001 each were made at prices of between 5.76 and 9.00 per share.
At all relevant times, sufficient distributable reserves would have been available in the Company had its subsidiary undertakings passed up distributable profits to the Company through distributions from those subsidiary undertakings own distributable reserves.
The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to take the necessary steps to regularise this position, since shareholders received the dividends they were intended to receive, the Company purchased the shares it intended to purchase and the Company clearly would not wish to take any action it could technically take against the relevant shareholders to recover any amounts in connection with the Dividends and Purchases of Ordinary Shares.
The Company has therefore entered into deed polls to discharge any current or former shareholder of the Company that received a Dividend or tendered shares under the Companys programme of market purchases from any obligation to repay any amount to the Company in connection with the Dividends and Purchases of Ordinary Shares.
Furthermore, a special resolution is proposed, numbered 18 and set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, to cancel and extinguish the ordinary shares concerned.
Subject to obtaining the requisite consent at the Annual General Meeting, the Company intends to seek the confirmation of the Court for the cancellation and reduction described above, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders will not need to take any further action in this respect.
An appropriation has already been made from the distributable reserve position of the Company for the total purchase cost in respect of the ordinary shares concerned.
This is similar to the accounting treatment had the purported purchases been made on the appropriate basis and such a transfer has been reflected in the Companys financial statements with no recognition of the sums recoverable.
The Directors believe the legal position will be rectified promptly following the Annual General Meeting.
27 Disposals and discontinued operations On 18 December 2012 the Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement for the sale of 67% of the shares of LMAX Limited for 2.4m.
The transaction was finalised in January 2013, on which date control of LMAX Limited passed to the acquirer.
The net assets of LMAX Limited at the date of disposal were: 2013 m Trade and other receivables 12.9 Cash and cash equivalents 26.9 Trade and other payables 31.4 Net assets disposed of 8.4 Consideration received 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 26.9 Net cash outflow 24.5 Cash and cash equivalents includes 22.7m of clients funds held matched by liabilities of an equal value in trade and other payables.
114 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The results of the discontinued operations, which were included in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2013, were as follows: Period ended 18 January 2013 m Revenue 4.1 Cost of sales 2.2 Gross profit 1.9 Administrative expenses 17.4 Operating loss 15.5 EBITDA 5.5 Impairment loss recognised 7.7 Depreciation and amortisation 2.3 Operating loss 15.5 Net finance income 0.1 Loss before tax 15.4 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 5.3 Tax 0.4 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations 21.1 The Group incurred no profit or loss from discontinued operations in the year ended 30 April 2014.
During the year ended 30 April 2013, LMAX Limited contributed 5.2m to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 2.8m in respect of investing activities.
28 Contingent liabilities In obtaining a licence to operate in New Jersey, the Group has paid and committed to prepay a revenue share to a third party which is contingent on that third party meeting specific requirements.
As at 30 April 2014, the Group deems the fulfilment of these criteria as uncertain.
In the event that the payment was to crystallise, there would be no significant impact on the profitability of the Group.
B B ee tf tf a a ir G ir G rro ou up p p pllc c A A n n n nua ual R l Re ep po or rt t a and nd A Ac cc co ou u n n t t s s 2 20 0 1 1 4 4 1 11 15 5 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
