SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered Office Share dealing If you wish to buy or sell shares in the Company you can do this Betfair Group plc by using the services of a stockbroker or high street bank or Waterfront through telephone or online dealing services.
The Companys Hammersmith Embankment Registrar, Computershare offer a telephone and online service, Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road further information can be found at www.
com London W6 9HP sharedealingcentre or by calling 0870 703 0084 Mon-Fri. 44 0 20 8834 8000 Please note the following when contacting Computershare: corporate.
com you will need to have your shareholder reference number Registrars available: and Computershare Investor Services PLC if your shareholding is in certificated form you will need to The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ present your valid share certificate s at the time of sale.
0870 707 4010 Please note the price of shares can go down as well as up, www.
com and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact Please contact Computershare quoting your shareholder reference an independent financial adviser.
Details of stockbrokers in number on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher for the UK can be found via the Wealth Management Association advice regarding any change of name or address, transfer of WMA on 44 0 20 7448 7100 or at www.
shares or loss destruction of share certificate.
Computershare ShareGift willalso be able to respond to general queries such as the If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more numberof shares you hold or payment details for dividends.
for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider Amalgamation of accounts donating them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
owing to multiple accounts in their name should contact The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from the Computershare to request their accounts be amalgamated.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to Dividend mandates charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 into their bank account.
This method of payment removes the risk or from www.
of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures your account is credited on the due date.
Tax vouchers are provided by Auditors Computershare.
To take advantage of this convenient method of KPMG Audit Plc payment contact Computershare or visit www-uk.
15 Canada Square London E14 5GL com investor.
Principal Bankers Electronic communications Royal Bank of Scotland plc Using the Companys corporate website as a method of 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB communicating with shareholders the Company is able to distribute Principal Solicitors messages to shareholders instantaneously.
Receiving theCompanys Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP communications electronically allows the Company tocommunicate 65 Fleet Street with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost London EC4Y 1HS effective and timely manner.
You can to elect to receive email notifications by contacting Computershare or by registering with Investor Centre at www-uk.
Scams and frauds Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited communications, such as: offers to buy or sell shares at a discount: opportunities to receive free company reports: free financial advice: and chances to invest in carbon credit trading schemes.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at www.
120 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
