118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 51 Shareholder Information Introduction Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc is an Investment Trust whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 December 2014, it is the largest trust, based on net assets, within its sub-sector of UK Smaller Company Investment Trusts.
Shareholder register enquiries All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders such as queries concerning holdings, dividend payments, notification of change of address, loss of certificate or to be placed on a mailing list should be addressed to the Companys Registrar: Shareholder Services Department, Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
com Payment of dividends The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the Companys Registrar, whose address is given above, to pay them directly into a bank account: tax vouchers are then mailed to Shareholders separately.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
The Company also operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan to allow Shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy shares easily and at a low cost via the Companys Registrar from whom the necessary forms are available.
Sources of further information The prices of the Ordinary Shares are quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Herald, The Times and The Scotsman.
Company performance and other relevant information are available on the Managers website at www.
co. uk and are updated monthly.
The price, together with the Net Asset Values and other financial data, can be found on the TrustNet website at www.
Other websites containing useful information on the Company are www.
How to invest The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought or sold by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through most banks.
The Companys Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP, do not offer any packaged products such as ISAs, PEPs, Savings Schemes or Pension Plans.
Security Codes SEDOL Bloomberg Reuters GIIN Ordinary Shares of 1p 0006655 ASL LN ASL.
826 Continuation Vote The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
Retail Distribution The Company currently conducts its affairs, and intends to continue to conduct its affairs, so that its Ordinary Shares can be recommended by Independent FinancialAdvisers IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation to non-mainstream investment products.
The Companys OrdinaryShares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions that apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
ISA Status The Companys Ordinary Shares are eligible for inclusion in the Stocks and Shares component of an Individual Savings Account ISA.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies which produces a detailed Monthly Information Service on the majority of investment trusts.
This can be obtained by contacting The Association of Investment Companies, 9th Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY Website: www.
Annual General Meeting Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 51 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 52 Shareholder Information Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to the Companys leverage is required to be made available to Shareholders.
The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels as at 31 December 2014 are shown below.
Commitment Gross Leverage Exposure refer to the Glossary Method Method Maximum limit 2.00:1 2.00:1 Actual 1.03:1 1.03:1 Furthermore, in accordance with the Directive, the AIFMs remuneration policy is available on request from Aberforth Partners LLP and numerical disclosures in respect of the AIFMs first relevant reporting period year ended 30 April 2016 will be made available in due course.
Glossary Active share ratio is calculated by summing the absolute differences between a portfolios weight in a stock and an indexs weight in a stock for all the stocks in that index.
The total is then divided by two to give a ratio between 0% and 100%.
Active Share is addressed by Antti Petajisto and Martijn Cremers in 2009 publication from the Yale School of Management: How Active Is Your Fund Manager?
A New Measure That Predicts Performance.
Discount is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share is lower than the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Gearing represents borrowings by an investment trust to buy investments if the Managers expect stockmarkets to rise, with a view to making a greater return on the money borrowed than the cost of the borrowing.
If stockmarkets rise, gearing can increase the Companys returns, but, if they fall, losses will be greater.
Leverage for the purposes of the AIFM Directive, is any method which increases the Companys exposure to stock markets whether through borrowings, derivatives or any other means.
It is expressed as a ratio of the Companys exposure to its NetAssetValue.
In summary, the gross method measures the Companys exposure before applying hedging or netting arrangements.
The commitment method allows certain hedging or netting arrangements to be offset.
ASCoT has no hedging or netting arrangements.
Market Capitalisation of a Company is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value, also described as Shareholders funds, is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include borrowings as well as current liabilities.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Total Return represents the theoretical return on Shareholders funds per share assuming that dividends paid to Shareholders were reinvested at the Net Asset Value at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Ongoing Charges is the total cost of investment management fees and other operating expenses as a percentage of the average published net asset value over the period calculated per AIC guidelines.
Premium is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share exceeds the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
52 Shareholder Information Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Cov PRINT 118786 ASCOT Cov V11 29 01 2015 12:58 Page ibc1 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Results For the half year to 30 June announced July For the full year to 31 December announced January Ordinary Share Dividends Interim Ex-dividend July August Payable September Final Ex-dividend February Payable March Interim Report Published July Annual Report and Accounts Published January February Annual General Meeting February Publication of Net Asset Values Daily via the Managers website Corporate Information Investment Managers and Secretaries Bankers Aberforth Partners LLP The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 14 Melville Street 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH3 7NS Edinburgh EH2 2YB Tel: 0131 220 0733 Email: enquiries@aberforth.
co. uk Custodian Website: www.
co. uk The Northern Trust Company 50 Bank Street Registered Office and Company Number Canary Wharf 14 Melville Street London E14 5NT Edinburgh EH3 7NS Registered in Scotland No.
126524 Independent Auditor Deloitte LLP Registrar Saltire Court Capita Registrars Limited 20 Castle Terrace The Registry Edinburgh 34 Beckenham Road EH1 2DB Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus Solicitors and Sponsors network extras Dickson Minto W. S. Website: www.
com 16 Charlotte Square Edinburgh EH2 4DF Depositary NationalWestminster Bank plc Trustee &Depositary Services The Younger Building 1st Floor, 3 Redheughs Avenue Edinburgh EH3 7NS J. Thomson Colour Printers Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Cov PRINT 118786 ASCOT Cov V11 29 01 2015 12:58 Page bc1
