INTRODUCTION S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N GLOSSARY Accident year The year in which an accident occurs, also referred to as the earned basis.
Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
Claims reserves A monetary amount set aside for the future payment of incurred claims that have not yet been settled, thus representing a balance sheet liability.
Co-insurance An arrangement in which two or more insurance companies agree to underwrite insurance business on a specified portfolio in specified proportions.
Each co-insurer is directly liable tothepolicyholder for their proportional share.
Combined ratio The sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio.
Commutation An agreement between a ceding insurer and the reinsurer that provides for the valuation, payment and complete discharge of all obligations between the parties under a particular reinsurance contract.
Expense ratio The ratio can be calculated on an earned or written basis.
Expressed as a percentage, of i net operating expenses, either divided by ii written or earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
Insurance market cycle The tendency for the insurance market to swing between highs and lows of profitability over time, with the potential to influence premium rates also known as the underwriting cycle.
Loss ratio The loss ratio can be calculated on an accident year or underwriting year basis, and is expressed as a percentage of i claims incurred, divided by ii net premiums.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period, less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net insurance premium revenue Also referred to as net earned premium.
The element of premium, less reinsurance premium, earned in the period.
Premium A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Written premium refers to the total amount the policyholder has contracted for, whereas earned premium refers to the recognition of this premium over the life of the contract.
Profit commission A provision found in some reinsurance and co-insurance agreements that provides for profit sharing.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to another insurer.
This can be on a quota share basis a percentage share of premiums, claims and expenses or an excess of loss basis full reinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Total Gross Net premiums written Total total premiums written, including co-insurance.
Gross total premiums written, including reinsurance but excluding co-insurance.
Net total premiums written, excluding reinsurance and co-insurance.
Turnover A non-GAAP measure, turnover is the sum of total premiums written and Other Revenue.
Ultimate loss ratio The projected ratio for a particular accident year or underwriting year, often used in the calculation of underwriting profit and profit commission.
Underwriting year The year in which the policy was incepted, also referred to as the written basis.
Claims incurred are allocated to the calendar year in which the policy was underwritten.
Written Earned basis A policy can be written in one calendar year but earned over a subsequent calendar year.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 115
