98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS AND RESULTS PRESENTATION BG Groups reportable segments are those used by the Groups Board and management the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined in IFRS 8 Operating Segments to run the business and are based on differences in the Groups products and services.
Segment information is presented onthesame basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
BG Group has two principal operating and reporting segments: Upstream andLNGShipping & Marketing.
Upstream comprises exploration, development, production, liquefaction and marketing of hydrocarbons.
LNG Shipping & Marketing combines the development and use of LNG import facilities with the purchase, shipping and sale of LNG and regasified naturalgas.
The Groups remaining Transmission and Distribution businesses, principally Mahanagar Gas in India, and certain corporate activities are included in the Other activities segment.
Intra-Group sales are settled at market prices and are generally based on the same prices as those charged to third parties arms length principle.
Group revenue, profit for the year, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and capital investment attributable to BG Group activities are shownon pages 98 to 101, analysed by operating segment.
The presentation of BG Groups results under IFRS separately identifies the effect of the re-measurement of certain financial instruments, profits and losses on the disposal and impairment of non-current assets and certain other exceptional items.
Results excluding discontinued operations and disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments and certain other exceptional items Business Performance are used by management andare presented in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Further information on Business Performance is given on page 142.
The disposals, re-measurements and impairments column includes unrealised gains and losses in respect of certain gas sales contracts classified asderivatives under IAS 39, commodity instruments that represent economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting, and financial instruments used to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
Where these instruments represent economic hedges but cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements in fair value, together with foreign exchange movements associated with the underlying borrowings and foreign exchange movements in respect of certain inter-company balances, are recorded in the income statement and disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
The separate presentation of these items best reflects the underlying performance ofthe business since it distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actualrealised gains and losses.
Under IFRS the results from jointly controlled entities joint ventures and associates are presented net of tax and finance costs on the face of theincome statement.
BG Group also presents the operating profit of the Group including results of joint ventures and associates before interest andtax, as this approach provides additional information on the source of the Groups operating profits.
Reconciliations between the Total Results and Business Performance, and operating profit including and excluding theresults of joint ventures andassociates are provided on pages 99 and 100.
The geographical information provided for external revenue is based on country of production.
Furtherinformation is given in the Supplementary information on page 132.
External revenue attributable to non-UK countries is $16 121m 2013: $15 922m.
Included in the Upstream segment is revenue of $2441m attributable to Brazil representing 13% of Group external revenue 2013: $1 281m, 7% and $1 716m attributable to Kazakhstan representing 9% of Group external revenue 2013: $2 090m, 11%.
Further geographical information on the Groups E&P revenues can be found in Supplementary information gas and oil unaudited on page 132.
LNG Shipping & Marketing revenues are not considered reliant on individual countries since they are associated with the global deployment of the Groups portfolio of flexible LNG supplies.
External revenue in respect of a single external customer amounted to $1 596m 2013: $2 198m, recognised in the Upstream segment.
These revenues are associated with the sale of marketable commodities and over 95% are secured by letters of credit: accordingly, this single customer is not considered to represent a concentration of business risk to the Group.
For further information oncredit risk see the Groups Principal risks and uncertainties, page 34 and note 18, page 117.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
