150 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO SHAREHOLDERS RIGHT TO VOTE The website address www.
co. uk to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Only those holders of ordinary shares on isprovided to enable shareholders to register personal member, or sponsored member, theregister of members of the Company at electronically their appointment of a proxy or orhas appointed a voting service provider, 6.00 pm on 30 April 2015 or, if the meeting proxies and voting instructions for the AGM.
toprocure that his CREST sponsor or voting isadjourned, 6.00 pm on the date which is The Company will not accept any other document service provider takes such action as shall twodays excluding non-working days before or information relating to proceedings of the benecessary to ensure that a message is thetime fixed for the adjourned meeting, AGM or otherwise that may be sent by electronic transmitted by means of the CREST system ortheir duly appointed proxies, shall be entitled means to that address.
In this connection, toattend or vote at the AGM in respect of the CREST members and, where applicable, their ELECTRONIC PROXY APPOINTMENT number of ordinary shares registered in their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, THROUGH CREST name on that date and time.
Changes to the are referred, in particular, to those sections CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy register of members after that time shall ofthe CREST Manual concerning practical or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy bedisregarded in determining the rights limitations of the CREST system and timings.
appointment service may do so by using the of any person to attend or vote.
procedures described in the CREST Manual The Company may treat as invalid a CREST APPOINTING A PROXY available via www.
CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more Personal Members or other CREST sponsored inRegulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated proxies to exercise all or any of their rights members, and those CREST members who Securities Regulations 2001. toattend, speak and vote on their behalf at the have appointed a voting service provider, The return of a completed proxy form, any AGM, provided that each proxy is appointed should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting other such instrument, or any CREST Proxy toexercise the rights attached to a different service provider, who will be able to take the Instruction, does not preclude a shareholder share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy appropriate action on their behalf.
attending the AGM and voting in person if need not be a shareholder of the Company In order for a proxy appointment made using they wish to do so.
butthey must be registered in advance and CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST attendthe AGM to represent you.
APPOINTING A CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVE message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be A shareholder that is a corporation may authorise If you do not have a proxy form and believe properly authenticated in accordance with a person or persons to act as its representative s that you should have one, or if you require Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear at the AGM.
In accordance with the provisions additional forms, you should contact the specifications, and must contain the information ofthe Act as amended by the Companies Companys registrar, Equiniti.
required for such instruction, as described in Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, each the CREST Manual.
To be valid, you must register your proxy such representative may exercise on behalf of the appointment and voting instructions by The message, regardless of whether it corporation the same powers as the corporation oneofthe following three methods: constitutes the appointment of a proxy or could exercise if it were an individual member is an amendment to the instruction given to ofthe Company, provided that they do not do Online at www.
co. uk by following a previously appointed proxy, must, in order soin relation to the same ordinary shares.
It is the on-screen instruction and using the to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received therefore no longer necessary to nominate shareholder reference number printed on your by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00 am on adesignated corporate representative.
proxy card which accompanies this Notice: 30 April 2015 or if the meeting is adjourned, NOMINATED PERSON Return the hard copy form by post, by courier, 48 hours excluding non-working days before Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a or by hand to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
person nominated under Section 146 of the Act Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA: or For this purpose, the time of receipt will be to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person taken to be the time as determined by the time In the case of CREST members, by utilising does not, in that capacity, have a right to appoint stamp applied to the message by the CREST the CREST electronic proxy appointment a proxy, such right only being exercisable by Applications Host from which the issuers service in accordance with the procedures shareholders of the Company.
However, agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry set out below.
Nominated Persons may, under agreement to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
with the shareholder who nominated them, After this time any change of instructions to If a proxy form is signed by an unregistered have a right to be appointed or to have someone proxies appointed through CREST should be agent, the power of attorney or other authority else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
communicated to the appointee through relied on to sign it, or a copy that has been other means.
TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS certified, must be delivered with the proxy As at the last practicable date prior to the form.
In each case, the appointment must CREST members and, where applicable, their publication of this Notice, the Companys issued bereceived by the Company no later than CREST sponsors or voting service provider, share capital consisted of 3 621 364 441 ordinary 11.00 am on 30 April 2015 or, if the meeting is should note that Euroclear does not make shares, carrying one vote each and 206 948 325 adjourned, 48 hours excluding non-working available special procedures in CREST for any treasury shares, which do not have voting days before the time fixed for the particular message.
Consequently, the total voting rights adjournedmeeting.
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation inthe Company are 3 414 416 116. to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | NOTES TO SHAREHOLDERS 151 WEBSITE PUBLICATION OF AUDIT CONCERNS AT THE 2015 AGM THE MEETING Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Act can require the Company to VOTING publish a statement on its website setting Voting on the Resolutions will be by poll.
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays outany matter relating to: TheChairman will invite each shareholder, excluded, and will also be available for corporate representative and proxy present inspection at the AGM from 9.00 am on a the audit of the Companys Accounts atthe meeting to complete a poll card theday of the AGM until its conclusion.
including the auditors report and the indicating how they wish to cast their votes conduct of the audit that are to be laid REGISTRATION AND SECURITY in respect of each Resolution.
In addition, before the AGM: or Please bring the Admission Card, which theChairman will cast the votes for which he isattached to your proxy form, with you b any circumstances connected with an has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will ifyou attend the AGM.
If you do not have auditor of the Company ceasing to hold be collected at the end of the meeting.
Once anAdmission Card, your right to attend office since the previous meeting at which the results have been verified by the Companys theAGM will be verified by the Companys the Annual Report and Accounts were laid registrar, Equiniti, they will be notified to registrar, Equiniti, at the registration desk.
inaccordance with Section 437 of the Act, theUK Listing Authority, announced through Please allow enough time for registration aRegulatory Information Service and that the members propose to raise at the AGM.
available to view on the Companys website.
The Company cannot require the members There will be a security check in the reception SHAREHOLDERS RIGHT TO ASK QUESTIONS requesting the publication on the website to area at the entrance to the Windsor Suite All members attending the meeting in person pay its expenses in complying with Sections and a routine bag search will be undertaken or by proxy have the right to ask questions.
Where the Company is for those persons wishing to take bags into The Company will endeavour at the meeting required to place a statement on its website thepresentation.
Certain items will not be to answer any question relating to the business under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward permitted in the AGM.
This includes items of being conducted.
However, the Directors the statement to the Companys auditors any nature with potential to cause disorder may choose not to answer any questions: nolater than the time it makes its statement and such other items as the Chairman or i which would interfere unduly with the available on the website.
The business that designated officers of the meeting may preparation for the meeting: ii which would may be dealt with at the AGM includes any specify.
The use of cameras or other recording involve the disclosure of confidential information: statement that the Company has been equipment in and during the AGM is iii if the answer has already been given on a required to publish on its website.
website in the form of an answer to a question: WEBSITE or iv if it is undesirable in the interests of SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DESK A copy of this Notice of AGM, and other the Company or the good order of the meeting BG Group staff and Equiniti will be on hand information required by Section 311A of the Act, that the question be answered.
to help you with any queries you may have.
com agm If you are a member who is unable to attend ADDITIONAL SHAREHOLDER SUPPORT You may not use any electronic address the meeting, but have a specific question The AGM will be held in the Windsor Suite provided in this Notice to communicate with youwould like to ask relating to the business onthe ground floor.
The venue is fully the Company for any purposes other than being conducted at the meeting, you are accessible with wheelchair access via the those expressly stated.
invited to send the Chairman an email to front entrance.
com or write Any electronic communication, including Anyone accompanying a shareholder who to him at theregistered office address.
thelodgement of an electronic proxy form, isin a wheelchair, or otherwise in need received by the Company, or its agents, DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION ofassistance, will be admitted to the AGM.
thatisfound to contain any virus will not Copies of the relevant service contracts, letters An induction loop will be available in the beaccepted.
of appointment and deeds of indemnity of Windsor Suite for people with hearing all Directors of the Company are available for difficulties.
inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company and at DIRECTIONS the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, Directions to the AGM, including a map, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HT on weekdays canbe found overleaf.
AGM SCHEDULE VENUE Hilton Reading Hotel, Drake Way, Reading, Berkshire RG2 0GQ TIMINGS 9:45 am Doors open, registration begins, tea and coffee available.
10:00 am Doors to the Windsor Suite open, hosts will direct you to your seats.
Light refreshments will be available after the meeting.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
