88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION Reserves, commodity prices, Theimpairment is sensitive to assumptions The Financial statements for the year ended impairment anddepreciation including the level of domestic gas diversions, 31December 2014 have been prepared in One factor that affects the calculation of the sanctioning of future investment projects, accordance with International Financial depreciation and impairment in particular is the continued repayment of the domestic Reporting Standards IFRS, and IFRS Interpretations the estimation of hydrocarbon reserves and receivables and the discount rate applied to Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by resources.
BG Groups estimates of reserves cash flow projections.
Any adverse changes in the European Union.
In addition, the Financial and resources of gas and oil are reviewed and, these assumptions could result in an additional statements have been prepared in accordance where appropriate, updated quarterly.
They impairment in the next financial year.
with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 are also subject to periodic review by external Elsewhere, the reduction in the Groups applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
A number of factors assumptions of future commodity prices The Financial statements have been prepared impact on the amount of gas and oil reserves resulted in pre-tax non-cash impairment primarily using historical cost principles except and resources, including the available reservoir charges in the North Sea of $0.6 billion that, as disclosed in the accounting policies data, commodity prices and future costs, and post-tax $0.2 billion, Tunisia of $0.5 billion below, certain items, including derivatives, the amount is subject to periodic revision as post-tax $0.3 billion and the USA of $0.2billion aremeasured at fair value.
BG Group estimates that post-tax $0.1 billion.
Theseimpairments a 1% change throughout 2014 in the estimation BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION are sensitive to assumptions including of proved, proved developed and proved plus The Financial statements comprise a consolidation commodity prices.
probable reserves associated with producing of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary fields would have changed the 2014 depreciation Egypt receivables undertakings and incorporate the results of its charge by $24 million.
The Egyptian government continues share of joint ventures and associates using the todemonstrate its commitment to repay equity method of accounting.
All inter-company BG Group uses a range of short and long-term outstanding debts to the energy industry.
After transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
assumptions to determine the net present value partial repayments of the Groups outstanding Consistent accounting policies have been used of future cash flows for use in impairment debt during 2014, the amount owed by Egypt to prepare the consolidated Financial statements.
reviews unless short-term market assumptions General Petroleum Corporation EGPC in are more appropriate to the asset under review.
Most of BG Groups exploration and production respect of domestic gas sales as at31December Particular assumptions that impact the E&P activity is conducted through joint 2014 was $0.9 billion 2013:$1.2 billion, of which calculations are commodity prices, reserves operations.
The Group recognises its own share of $0.7 billion 2013: $0.5 billion was overdue.
estimates, exchange rates, discount rates the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash TheGroup considers that the current receivable andthe value of risked exploration acreage.
flows associated with these joint operations.
balance remains fully recoverable ascash Pages 34 to 41 include further detail in relation payments from EGPC continue to bereceived, The results of undertakings acquired or disposed to commodity prices and reserves estimates.
however in 2014 a $100million pre-tax of are consolidated from or to the date when In 2014, the Group recognised a pre-tax post-tax $79 million charge wasrecognised control passes to or from the Company.
For the impairment charge of $9.0 billion post-tax relating to the downward re-measurement of Company Financial statements only, investments $5.9 billion relating to Upstream activities the receivable balance toreflect the time value in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost in Australia, Egyptand certain other assets.
of money associated with the outstanding less any provision for impairment.
Of the total pre-tax impairment of $9.0 billion, debt based on a revised assumed repayment PRESENTATION OF RESULTS $5.5 billion post-tax $3.4 billion resulted profile.
The recoverability of the receivable BG Group presents its results in the income predominately from commodity price declines, balance depends on the business environment statement to separately identify the contribution $2.7 billion post-tax $1.8 billion related to inEgypt, the Groups continued investment of disposals, certain re-measurements, the QCLNG Pipeline Pty Limited disposal plans and the volume ofgas available for impairments and certain other exceptional and $0.8 billion post-tax $0.7 billion related export, together with the outcome of ongoing items in order to provide readers with a clear primarily to reserves downgrades.
and consistent presentation of the underlying In Australia, the total pre-tax non-cash Exploration expenditure operating performance of the Groups ongoing impairment charge was $6.8 billion post-tax Expenditure on unproved gas and oil reserves business: see note 1, page 98 and note 9, $4.5 billion driven mainly by a reduction in the within intangible assets is reviewed at least page110.
Groups assumptions of future commodity prices annually to confirm the Groups continued SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING and the disposal of QCLNG Pipeline Pty Limited.
right and intent to explore, develop or JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The impairment is sensitive to assumptions otherwise realise value from these assets.
As The preparation of financial statements in including commodity prices, foreign exchange at31December 2014 BG Group held a balance conformity with IFRS requires management to movements in the Australian Dollar relative of $3 014 million 2013: $3 752 million relating make judgements and assumptions that affect to the US Dollar, timely ramp up of production, to expenditure on unproved gas and oil reserves the reported amounts of assets and liabilities third-party gas purchases required to maintain within intangible assets.
Capitalised exploratory and disclosure of contingencies at the date full LNG production in both QCLNG trains, well costs included within this total amounted ofthe financial statements and the reported successful exploration of intangible assets to $2 525 million 2013: $3 058 million.
Unsuccessful revenues and expenses during the reporting and the discount rate applied to cash flow exploration expenditure written off to the period.
Actual results could differ from projections.
Any adverse changes in these income statement in 2014 was $237million theseestimates.
BG Group believes that the assumptions could result in an additional 2013: $394 million.
Capitalised exploratory accounting policies associated with reserves, impairment in the next financial year.
well costs relate to areas where further work impairment, depreciation, exploration isbeing undertaken on geological and geophysical In Egypt, the total pre-tax non-cash impairment expenditure, decommissioning costs and tax assessment, development design and charge was $0.8 billion post-tax $0.7 billion, arethe policies where changes in estimates commercial arrangements.
principally driven by further reserve downgrades and assumptions could have a significant reflecting underlying reservoir performance.
impact on the Financial statements.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 89 Decommissioning costs SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES theunit of production method based on the The recognition and measurement of Exploration expenditure proved developed reserves of those fields, decommissioning provisions involves the use BG Group uses the successful efforts method except that a basis of total proved reserves of estimates and assumptions.
These include: ofaccounting for exploration expenditure.
isused for acquired interests and for facilities.
the existence of a legal or constructive obligation Exploration expenditure, including licence Exploration and production assets associated to decommission, based on current legislation, acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible with unconventional activities, including contractual or regulatory requirements or best asset when incurred and certain expenditure, coalseam and shale gas, are depreciated from practice: the risk-free discount rate used to such as geological and geophysical exploration thecommencement of commercial production determine the net present value of the liability: costs, is expensed.
A review of each licence inthe fields concerned, using the unit of the estimated cost of decommissioning based orfield is carried out, at least annually, to production method based on proved plus on internal and external engineering estimates ascertain whether commercial reserves have probable reserves, together with the estimated and reports: and the payment dates of expected been discovered.
future development expenditure required decommissioning costs which are uncertain todevelop those reserves.
and are based on economic assumptions For conventional E&P activities, intangible surrounding the useful economic lives of the exploration and appraisal expenditure is Intangible assets in respect of contractual fields concerned.
Actual costs could differ from reclassified to property, plant and equipment rights are recognised at cost less amortisation.
estimated costs due to changes in legislation, on the determination of proved reserves.
This They are amortised on a straight-line basis regulations, technology, price levels and the is the point when exploration and appraisal over the term of the related contract.
activities become a development project Changes in depreciation and amortisation andreflects the importance of individual well On the basis that all other assumptions estimates are dealt with prospectively.
performance and reserves to conventional in thecalculation remain the same as at E&Pprojects.
By comparison, unconventional Decommissioning costs 31 December 2014, a 10% increase in the cost coal seam and shale gas activities have a Where a legal or constructive obligation estimates used to assess the final decommissioning relatively short exploration and appraisal hasbeen incurred, provision is made for the obligations would result in an increase to the phase and are more focused on the average net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning provision ofcirca $450million, deliverability of a large number of wells over decommissioning at the end of the producing and a 1% increase in the discount rate would an entire licence area rather than the performance lives of assets.
result in a decrease to the decommissioning and reserves associated with individual wells.
These changes When this provision gives access to future Accordingly, BG Group uses the determination would be principally offset by achange in the economic benefits, an asset is recognised of proved plus probable reserves as the point value of the associated asset, resulting in no andthen subsequently depreciated in line at which exploration and appraisal expenditure material change to the consolidated net assets.
with the life of the underlying producing on unconventional E&P activities is reclassified asset, otherwise the costs are charged to Current and deferred tax toproperty, plant and equipment.
The unwinding of BG Group is subject to income taxes in approach is consistent with the methodology thediscount on the provision is included in numerous jurisdictions.
There are transactions used to depreciate assets associated with theincome statement within finance costs.
and calculations for which the ultimate tax these activities.
Anychanges to estimated costs or discount determination is uncertain.
The Group periodically Exploration expenditure transferred to ratesare dealt with prospectively.
evaluates situations in which applicable tax property, plant and equipment is subsequently regulation is subject to interpretation and Impairment of non-current assets depreciated on a unit of production basis.
establishes provisions where appropriate based Non-current assets subject to depreciation Exploration expenditure deemed to be on amounts expected to be paid to the tax oramortisation are reviewed for impairments unsuccessful is written off to the authorities.
In estimating these provisions whenever events or other changes in incomestatement.
consideration is taken of the strength of the circumstances indicate that the carrying technical arguments, the local statute of Depreciation and amortisation amount may not be recoverable.
Expenditure limitations, likely scope for double tax relief, Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, onunproved gas and oil reserves is assessed and whether penalties and interest could apply.
plant and equipment, except exploration for impairment when facts and circumstances andproduction assets, is depreciated on a suggest that its carrying amount exceeds Deferred tax assets are recognised for straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write itsrecoverable amount.
deductible temporary differences, unutilised off the historical cost less residual value of tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent Any impairment of non-current assets individual assets over their estimated useful that realisation of the related tax benefit excluding financial assets is calculated as economic lives.
Asset lives and residual through future taxable income is probable.
thedifference between the carrying values valuesare reassessed annually.
Todetermine the future taxable income, ofcash-generating units including associated reference is made to the latest available profit The depreciation periods for the principal goodwill and their recoverable amount, forecasts.
This requires assumptions regarding categories of assets are as follows: beingthe higher of the estimated value in future profitability and is therefore inherently useor fair value less costs of disposal at Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years uncertain.
Significant items where the Group thedate the impairment charge is recognised.
Plant and machinery 5 to 40 years has relied on estimates of future taxable income Value in use represents the net present value Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years include a deferred tax asset in respect of the ofexpected future cash flows discounted US tax group amounting to $1 298 million onapre-tax basis.
Fair value less costs of 2013: $1 056 million and a deferred tax asset Exploration and production assets associated disposalisbased on the best evidence available relating to the Australian tax group amounting with conventional activities are depreciated totheGroup, and may include appropriate to $2 167 million 2013: $nil.
from the commencement of commercial valuation techniques, market data or sales production in the fields concerned, using ofcomparable assets.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 90 For the purposes of impairment testing, Thesecontracts are recognised on the balance OTHER ACCOUNTING POLICIES exploration and production assets may be sheet at fair value with movements in fair Property, plant and equipment aggregated into appropriate cash-generating value recognised in the income statement.
 assets units based on considerations including All property, plant and equipment is carried The Group uses various commodity-based geographical location, the use of common atdepreciated historical cost.
Additions derivative instruments to manage some of the facilities and marketing arrangements.
represent new, or replacements of specific risks arising from fluctuations in commodity components of property, plant and equipment.
Such contracts include physical and Finance costs associated with borrowings Derivative financial instruments are initially net-settled forwards, futures, swaps and usedto finance major capital projects are recognised and subsequently re-measured options.
Where these derivatives have been capitalised up to the point at which the atfair value.
designated as cash flow hedges of underlying assetis ready for its intended use.
commodity price exposures, certain gains and Derivative financial instruments utilised losses attributable to these instruments are Inventories byBGGroups treasury operations include deferred in other comprehensive income and Inventories, including inventories of gas, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, recognised in the income statement when LNGand oil held for sale in the ordinary course cross-currency interest rate swaps, forward rate theunderlying hedged transaction crystallises ofbusiness, are stated at weighted average agreements and forward exchange contracts.
oris no longer expected to occur.
historical cost less provision for deterioration and Certain derivative financial instruments are obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
All other commodity contracts within the designated as hedges in line with the Groups scope of IAS 39 are measured at fair value Foreign currencies risk management policies.
Gains and losses withgains and losses taken to the income The currency in which the Group presents its arising from the re-measurement of these statement.
Gas and oil contracts and related consolidated and parent Company Financial financial instruments are either recognised derivative instruments associated with the statements is US Dollars.
The functional inthe income statement or deferred in other physical purchase and re-sale of third-party currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling.
comprehensive income depending on the gas are presented on a net basis within The exchange rates of US Dollar to Pound typeof hedging relationship.
Sterling over the periods included in this instrument is sold or expires, any cumulative Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: gain or loss previously recognised in other Revenue recognition comprehensive income remains in other Revenue associated with E&P sales of natural US$ UK exchange rate 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 comprehensive income until the hedged gas, crude oil and petroleum products is Closing rate 1.5593 1.6563 1.6255 1.5541 1.5657 transaction is recognised in the income recorded when title passes to the customer.
Average rate 1.6545 1.5640 1.5848 1.6079 1.5489 statement or is no longer expected to occur.
Revenue from the production of natural gas Movements in the fair value of derivative and oil in which BG Group has an interest financial instruments not included in withother producers is recognised based on On consolidation, assets and liabilities hedgingrelationships are recognised in the the Groups working interest and the terms denominated in currencies other than US Dollars income statement.
ofthe relevant production sharing contracts are translated into US Dollars at closing rates entitlement method.
Non-US Dollar trading results of Loans held by the Group are initially measured the parent Company, subsidiary undertakings, atfair value and subsequently carried at Sales of LNG and associated products are jointly controlled entities and associates are amortised cost, except where they form the recognised when title passes to the customer.
translated into US Dollars at average rates underlying transaction in an effective fair LNG shipping revenue is recognised over the ofexchange.
Differences resulting from the value hedge relationship when the carrying period of the relevant contract.
retranslation of the opening net assets and value is adjusted to reflect fair value All other revenue is recognised when title theresults for the year are recognised in movements associated with the hedged passes to the customer.
Such adjustments are reported in theincome statement.
Current and deferred income tax Any differences arising from 1 January 2003, The tax expense for the period comprises the date of transition to IFRS, are presented Other financial instruments such as receivable current and deferred tax, determined using asa separate component of equity.
balances are measured at amortised cost currently enacted or substantively enacted lessimpairments.
Share capital, share premium and other taxlaws.
reserves are translated into US Dollars at Commodity instruments Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the historical rates prevailing at the date Within the ordinary course of business the liability method, on temporary differences of the transaction.
BGGroup routinely enters into sale and arising between the tax bases of assets and purchase transactions for commodities.
Exchange differences on monetary assets liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Themajority of these transactions take the andliabilities arising in individual entities are Financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are form of contracts that were entered into and taken to the income statement, including recognised to the extent that it is probable continue to be held for the purpose of receipt those in respect of inter-company balances that future taxable profit will be available, or delivery of the commodity in accordance unless related to exchange differences on against which the temporary differences can with the Groups expected sale, purchase items that form part of a net investment beutilised.
Such contracts are in a foreign operation.
These differences notwithin the scope of IAS 39.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary are taken to reserves until the related differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, investment is disposed of.
All other exchange Certain commodity contracts have pricing joint ventures and associates, except where movements are dealt with through the terms that bring them into the scope of IAS 39. the timing of the reversal of the temporary income statement.
Inaddition, commodity instruments are used difference can be controlled and it is probable tomanage certain price exposures in respect that the temporary difference will not reverse ofoptimising the timing and location of inthe foreseeable future.
physical gas, LNG and oil commitments.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 91 Leases ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS DURING 2014 theuse and obtain the benefits from the Assets held under finance leases are capitalised IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements goodor service.
Revenue is recognised based and included in property, plant and equipment The IASB issued IFRS 10 in May 2011.
The standard ontheconsideration to which the Group atthe lower of fair value and the present builds on existing principles by identifying expects tobe entitled.
IFRS 15 will be adopted valueof the minimum lease payments theconcept of control as the determining factor bytheGroup when it becomes mandatory asdetermined at the inception of the lease.
inwhether an entity should be consolidated.
BG Group is currently Theobligations relating to finance leases, net Thestandard also provides additional reviewing the standard to determine the likely of finance charges in respect of future periods, guidanceto assist in the determination of impact on the Groups Financial statements.
are determined at the inception of the lease control.
Adoption of this standard has not Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and included within borrowings.
The interest hada material impact on the Groups The IASB issued an amended IFRS 11 in May element of the rental obligation is allocated Financialstatements.
The amendment requires an acquisition toaccounting periods during the lease term IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements ofan interest in a joint operation that is toreflect the constant rate of interest on The IASB issued IFRS 11 in May 2011.
The standard abusiness as defined in IFRS 3, Business theremaining balance of the obligation for aims to provide a more substance-based Combinations, to apply the relevant IFRS 3 each accounting period.
reflection of joint arrangements in the principles for business combinations accounting, BG Group has certain long-term arrangements financial statements by focusing on the rights and applies to both the acquisition of an initial under which it has acquired all of the capacity and obligations of the arrangement rather interest in a joint operation and the acquisition of certain property, plant and equipment.
Adoption of this standard of any additional interest.
The amendment circumstances where it is considered that the has not had a material impact on the Groups willbe applied prospectively by the Group Group has the majority of the risks and rewards Financial statements.
when it becomes mandatory in the of ownership of the plant, the arrangement EuropeanUnion.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities isconsidered to contain a finance lease.
The IASB issued IFRS 12 in May 2011.
The Other revisions and amendments Rentals under operating leases are charged standard introduces new and comprehensive Other revisions and amendments are not tothe income statement on a straight-line disclosure requirements for all forms of interests expected to have a material impact on basis over the lease term.
in other entities, including joint arrangements, theGroups Financial statements.
New and Pensions revised disclosures in accordance with this The amount recognised on the balance sheet standard are presented in note 13 on page 113 inrespect of liabilities for defined benefit and note 25 on page 130. pension and post-retirement benefit plans represents the present value of the obligations Other amendments offset by the fair value of plan assets.
A number of other amendments to accounting standards issued by the IASB are applicable The cost of providing retirement pensions from 1 January 2014.
They have not had andrelated benefits is charged to the income amaterial impact on the Groups Financial statement over the periods benefiting from statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. the employees services.
Current service costsare reflected in operating profit and net ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS interest costs are reflected in finance costs NOT YET ADOPTED inthe period in which they arise.
Actuarial The following standards and amendments gains and losses are recognised in full as they have been issued by the IASB up to the date occur in other comprehensive income.
ofthis report and in some cases have not yetbeen endorsed by the European Union.
Contributions made to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income IFRS 9 Financial Instruments statement when payable.
The IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 inJuly 2014, which reflects all phases of the Share-based payments financial instruments project.
IFRS 9 introduces The cost of providing share-based payments to new requirements for the classification, employees is charged to the income statement measurement and impairment of financial over the vesting period of the related share instruments and hedge accounting, and will options or share allocations.
The cost is based beadopted by the Group when it becomes onthe fair value of the options or shares mandatory in the European Union.
BG Group allocated and the number of awards expected iscurrently reviewing the standard to to vest.
The fair value of each option or share determine the likely impact on the Groups isdetermined using either the share price on Financial statements.
the date of the grant or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Market-related performance conditions are withCustomers reflected in the fair value of the share.
The IASB issued IFRS 15 in May 2014.
The Non-market-related performance conditions standard establishes a five-step model that areallowed for using a separate assumption will apply to revenue arising from contracts about the number of awards expected to withcustomers.
Revenue is recognised vest:the final charge made reflects the whenacustomer obtains control of a good number actually vesting.
orserviceand thus has the ability to direct BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
