148 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EXPLANATORY NOTES This document is important and requires your RESOLUTION 3: DECLARATION and government expertise.
If you are in any doubt OF A DIVIDEND this decision, the Committee took into about its content, you should immediately The Directors recommend a final dividend consideration that Baroness Hoggs skills consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or forthe financial year ended 31 December 2014 and experience would prove useful during other professional adviser duly authorised under of14.37 cents 9.52 pence per ordinary share.
a key transition period for the Group.
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Thefinal dividend will be paid on 22 May 2015 In reviewing the recommendations of the inPounds Sterling to ordinary shareholders If you have sold or transferred all of your shares Nominations Committee concerning the and in US Dollars to American Depositary in the Company, please send this document and re-election of Non-Executive Directors, the Holders who were registered at the close all accompanying documents to the purchaser Board has concluded that all Non-Executive ofbusiness on 24 April 2015. or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or Directors, with the exception of the Chairman other agent through or to whom the sale or The rate of exchange used to determine the who was considered independent upon transfer was effected so that they can be passed Pound Sterling amount equivalent was the appointment in line with the Code, are onto the person who owns the shares.
average of the daily spot rates for the three independent for the purposes ofthe Code.
business days prior to the business day before Inaddition, and following the annual evaluation DIRECTORS RECOMMENDATION the announcement of the US Dollar dividend, exercise conducted during theyear, the Board It is the Directors belief that the proposed on 3 February 2015. considers that each Director continues to make Resolutions will promote the success of the an effective and valuable contribution and Company and are in the best interests of An interim dividend for the year ended demonstrates commitment to the role.
Further theCompany and shareholders as a whole.
31December 2014 of 14.38 cents 8.47 pence per details regarding this determination are available Youare encouraged to vote in favour of all of ordinary share was paid on 12 September 2014. onpage 51. the Resolutions, as each Director intends to RESOLUTION 4: ELECTION OF DIRECTOR doin respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends In accordance with the Companys Articles of the re-election of each of these Directors.
2 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS Association and in line with the provisions of RESOLUTION 1: ANNUAL REPORT the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, RESOLUTIONS 17 TO 18: RE-APPOINTMENT ANDACCOUNTS each new Director appointed to the Board AND REMUNERATION OF AUDITOR The Directors ask that shareholders receive issubject to election by shareholders at the The Audit Committee has recommended theAccounts of the Company for the financial firstAGM following their appointment.
tothe Board that Ernst & Young LLP be year ended 31 December 2014, the Directors re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
On 9 February 2015, Helge Lund was appointed report and the auditors report on the Accounts.
as an Executive Director and Chief Executive.
The Directors recommend their re-appointment RESOLUTION 2: DIRECTORS ANNUAL Mr Lund is standing for election with the and seek authority for the Audit Committee REPORTON REMUNERATION full support of the Board and the Board todetermine the level of the auditors ANNUALREMUNERATION REPORT unanimously recommends that he is remuneration.
The Annual Remuneration report provides elected as a Director of the Company.
RESOLUTION 19: POLITICAL DONATIONS adetailed review of how the Company has Full biographical details of all Directors are The Act prohibits companies from making any implemented its Directors Remuneration provided on pages 46 and 47 of the Companys political donations to EU political organisations Policy the Policy during 2014, including details Annual Report and Accounts and are available or independent candidates, or incurring EU of the remuneration including share awards toview on the Companys website.
political expenditure, unless authorised by paid to the Directors during the year.
RESOLUTIONS 5 TO 16: RE-ELECTION The Policy was approved by shareholders at OFDIRECTORS The Company does not make, and does not the 2014 AGM.
A copy of the full Policy is available All of the existing Directors covered in these intend to make, donations to EU political at www.
com remunerationpolicy Resolutions are standing for re-election, in line organisations or independent election and a summary table is set out on pages 64 with Section B.
7.1 of the Code which states candidates, nor does it incur any EU political and 65.
In compliance with Section 439A of the that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should expenditure.
However, the definitions of Act, and in line with best practice recommended be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
theseterms used in the Act are very wide by the Investment Association IA previously Biographical details of all these Directors, andas a result this can cover activities such theAssociation of British Insurers, the Directors including an explanation of how they individually assponsorship, subscriptions, payment of intend to seek shareholder approval of the contribute to the overall effectiveness of the expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling Policy every three years, except in the event Board, are set out on pages 46 and 47 of the certain public duties and support for bodies that a change to the Policy is proposed or the Annual Report and Accounts and are available to representing the business community in advisory vote on the Directors Annual Report view online at www.
com leadership policyreview or reform.
on Remuneration is not passed in anyyear subsequent to the approval of thePolicy.
During the year, the Nominations Committee Directors seek shareholder approval on considered the continued appointment of aprecautionary basis only, to allow the The vote on the Annual Remuneration report Baroness Hogg who has served on the Board Company, and all the companies that are isadvisory in nature, meaning that payments for ten years.
The Committee considered that subsidiaries of the Company during the relevant already made to Directors will not have to Baroness Hogg should be invited to remain period, to continue to support the community berepaid in the event that the Resolution as a Non-Executive Director for a further year and put forward its views to wider business isnot passed.
in light of her accumulated knowledge of the and government interests, without running Group and her broad City, business, regulatory the risk of being in breach of the legislation.
2 Resolutions 1 to 20 are ordinary resolutions that will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the Resolutions.
Resolutions 21 to 23 are special resolutions that will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the Resolutions.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | EXPLANATORY NOTES 149 The Board is therefore seeking authority, to their existing holdings up to 1 138 138 705 theyare subsequently resold or transferred underSections 366 and 367 of the Act, to make ordinary shares representing approximately out of treasury.
political donations to EU political parties and 1 3 of the Companys issued share capital Ordinary shares are held in treasury in accordance independent election candidates not excluding treasury shares at the last with Section 724 of the Act and may be used exceeding 15 000 in total, to make political practicable date prior to the publication tosatisfy awards under the Companys share donations to EU political organisations other of this Notice, subject to any adjustments, schemes pursuant to Section 727 of the Act.
than political parties not exceeding 15,000 such as for fractional entitlements and Treasury shares have no entitlements to dividend in total and to incur EUpolitical expenditure overseas shareholders, as the Directors payments or voting rights.
Any treasury share sold not exceeding 20 000 intotal.
see fit: and becomes an ordinary share and would count In line with best practice guidelines, this b ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal towards the allotment thresholds disclosed.
resolution is put to shareholders annually rather value of 17 072 080, representing As at the last practicable date prior to the than every four years as required by the Act.
approximately 5% of the Companys issued publication of this Notice, the total number of For the purposes of this resolution, the terms share capital excluding treasury shares at the options outstanding over ordinary shares was political donations, political organisations, last practicable date prior to the publication of 5 034 384, representing 0.15% of the issued independent election candidate and political this Notice, otherwise than in connection with share capital of the Company excluding treasury expenditure shall have the meanings given an offer to existing shareholders.
If the existing authority givenat the tothem in Sections 363 to 365 of the Act.
The Directors confirm their intention to follow 2014 AGM and the authority now being sought RESOLUTION 20: AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups were used to their fullest extent, theseoptions The Directors seek shareholder approval to allot Statement of Principles regarding cumulative would represent 0.18% of the Companys issued ordinary shares, in accordance with Section 551 usage of authorities within a rolling three-year share capital excluding treasury shares.
ofthe Act, up to a maximum nominal amount period.
These principles provide that companies RESOLUTION 23: NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS of113 813 870, representing approximately 1 3 of should consult shareholders prior to issuing, The Directors seek shareholder approval to the Companys issued share capital excluding other than to existing shareholders, shares retain the flexibility, under the provisions treasury shares as at the last practicable forcash representing in excess of 7.5% of ofthe Act, to hold a general meeting on date prior to the publication of this Notice.
theCompanys issued ordinary share capital 14clear days notice other than for an AGM.
TheCompany is currently holding 206 948 325 excluding treasury shares in any rolling ordinary shares in treasury, representing three-year period.
By law the Act, the minimum notice period 6.06%ofthe Companys issued share capital forgeneral meetings of listed companies The authority contained in this Resolution 21 excluding treasury shares.
is21clear days, but companies may reduce willexpire upon the expiry of the general thisperiod to 14 clear days, other than for The Board has taken into consideration authority conferred in Resolution 20 being Annual General Meetings, provided that: theIAshare management guidelines but, atthe conclusion of the next AGM in 2016 asinprevious years, does not intend to seek or1June 2016, whichever is the earlier.
a the Company offers facilities for all shareholders authority to allot an additional shareholders to vote by electronic RESOLUTION 22: AUTHORITY TO MAKE MARKET 1 3of issued share capital.
means:and PURCHASES OF OWN ORDINARY SHARES The Directors have no present intention to No shares were bought back under the current b shareholder approval for holding general allot new ordinary shares other than pursuant authority and the Directors have no present meetings on 14 clear days notice has to employee share plans.
The authority sought intention to exercise the authority to purchase beenreceived by special resolution at will last until the conclusion of the next AGM the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors themost recent AGM.
Such a resolution in 2016 or 1 June 2016, whichever is the earlier.
would only exercise this authority if the impact wasproposed and passed at last were to increase earnings per share and would yearsAGM.
RESOLUTION 21: DISAPPLICATION be of benefit to shareholders as a whole.
OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS It is not the Directors intention to exercise Further to the authority sought under The Resolution seeks authority from shareholders, thisauthority.
However, the Board wishes Resolution 20 above, the Directors seek under Section 701 of the Act, for the Company to topreserve the ability to consider on a further approval to allot ordinary shares for purchase within the meaning of Section 693 4 case-by-case basis whether the use of the cash within the meaning of Section 560 of the of the Act its own ordinary shares and specifies flexibility offered by the shorter notice Act, and or to sell treasury shares, in certain the maximum number of shares that may be periodis appropriate, taking into account circumstances, without having to offer such acquired 10% of the Companys issued share thecircumstances, including whether the shares to existing shareholders.
The Directors capital excluding treasury shares and the business of the meeting is time sensitive.
consider it desirable to have the maximum maximum and the minimum prices at which The approval will be effective until the flexibility permitted by corporate governance they may be bought.
conclusion of the Companys next AGM.
guidelines in order to be able to respond to Any ordinary shares purchased in this way will market developments and have no present becancelled, unless the Directors determine intention of exercising this authority.
that they are to be held as treasury shares, and In accordance with Section 570 and 573 of the number of ordinary shares in issue will be theAct, the Directors will be able to allot: reduced accordingly.
Ordinary shares held in treasury will not automatically be cancelled a in connection with a rights issue or open but will not be taken into account in future offer to existing shareholders in proportion calculations of earnings per share, unless BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
