FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 126 22 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED E LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In August 2009 two separate tax deficiency notices were issued against Petrobras based on alleged irregularities in connection with the import of equipment and rigs onbehalf of the BM-S-9 Consortium Petrobras 45% Operator, BG E&P Brasil 30% and Repsol Sinopec Brasil 25%.
BG Groups potential liability arises from indemnity provisions in favour of Petrobras, as set out in the Joint Operating Agreement.
The first tax deficiency notice was issued due to the So Paulo State Tax Authoritys allegation that Petrobras cannot enjoy lower tax rates in the importation of a rig.
Petrobras challenged this decision through the administrative courts this appeal was rejected : and in the judicial branch, in whichthe first instance and second instance February 2014 courts declared and upheld that the So Paulo State Tax Authority was not competent to decide unilaterally where customs clearance takes place or to consider if the Consortium would be entitled to the special tax treatment.
These rulings were positive decisions for the Consortium.
The So Paulo State Tax Authority appealed the second instance judicial decision to the Brazilian Superior Court of Justice and a final decision is expected within the next three years.
The second tax deficiency notice was issued by the So Paulo Tax Authority reflecting their view that Petrobras should have recorded transfers of goods to and from a rig as if the offshore rig and the onshore base were two distinct branches of Petrobras.
As such, the authorities are charging a penalty.
Petrobras has appealed an unfavourable decision in the administrative courts and a decision is expected in 2015.
If the appeal by Petrobras is rejected, it is anticipated that judicial proceedings will be brought in a manner similar to the first tax deficiency notice referred to above and that this matter may take up to five years to be resolved.
In 2014 tax assessments were issued against Petrobras in respect of the charter services contract split for FPSOs, offshore service vessels and rig hire for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Some of these FPSOs, vessels and rigs were allocated to the BM-S-9 and BM-S-11 consortia.
Defences and administrative appeals were submitted by Petrobras and are pending.
BG Groups Australian subsidiary is defending claims brought by an unincorporated joint venture between McConnell Dowell Constructors Aust Pty Limited and Consolidated Contracting Company Australia Pty Limited together, MCJV.
MCJV is the main contractor for the Export and Narrows pipelines project.
In March 2014, MCJV initiated ICC arbitration proceedings relating to project variations, delay and completion of milestones.
The arbitral panel has been constituted and an indicative timetable for the arbitration set.
The full hearing of the matter is not expected before Q4 2015.
The claim has been retained by BG Group in the sales process of QCLNG Pipeline Pty Limited.
Various issues have been in dispute for a number of years with the Government of India in relation to the interpretation of the production sharing contracts for the Panna Mukta and Tapti fields and related matters.
It is not practicable at this time to estimate the financial effects other than for the tax deficiency notices : given the uncertainties relating to the amounts and timing of any economic inflows or outflows and the possibility of any reimbursements in relation to the outstanding legal proceedings detailed above.
An amount for the tax deficiency notices has been included within the other contingency liabilities amount in subsection F below.
The Company and its subsidiaries are, or may from time to time be, in connection with current or past operations, involved in a number of legal or arbitration proceedings, including, for example, claims, suits, actions, investigations and or inquiries relating to commercial, tax, environmental or other matters, with third parties or governmental or regulatory authorities.
While the outcome of some of these matters cannot readily be foreseen, itis currently considered that they will be resolved without material effect on the net asset position as set out in these Financial statements.
F CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The amount of contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2014 mainly the provision of guarantees, indemnities, contingent decommissioning obligations or warranties to third parties and various legal or arbitration proceedings in connection with the current and prior operations of the Group amounted to $7 188m 2013: $7 144m, of which $224m 2013: $242m related to the Company.
23 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business BG Group provides goods and services to, and receives goods and services from, its joint ventures and associates.
The Group received and incurred the following income and charges from its joint ventures and associates: a for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013 Restated Income Charges Income Charges $m $m $m $m LNG cargo purchases, sales and other related costs 118 720 108 601 Shipping, transportation costs and other related costs 2 23 5 47 E&P operating costs 298 149 120 1 041 113 797 a On the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, the Group has reclassified the comparative disclosures given in 2013 to exclude relationships that are now deemed to be Joint Operations and fall outside of the scope of IAS24 Related Party Disclosures.
The impact of excluding these items were as follows: LNG cargo purchases, and other related costs from $717m to $601m, Shipping, transportation and other related income from $90m to $5m and Shipping, transaction costs and other related costs from $113m to $47m.
BG Group provides certain guarantees in respect of its obligations to its joint ventures and associates, and its share of obligations undertaken byitsjoint ventures and associates, in the normal course of business.
As at 31 December 2014, a debtor balance of $42m 2013: $69m see note 15, page 114 and a creditor balance of $258m 2013: $109m see note 19, page 124 were outstanding with these parties.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
