146 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF BG GROUP PLC The Annual General Meeting AGM of BG Group plc theCompany will be held at the Hilton Reading Hotel, Drake Way, Reading, RG2 0GQ on Tuesday, 5 May 2015 at 11.00 am to consider and, if thought fit, pass, the resolutions set out on the following two pages the Resolutions.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTION 11 RESOLUTION 20 RESOLUTION 1 To re-elect Caio Koch-Weser as a Director To authorise the Directors generally and To receive the Accounts and Reports of of the Company.
unconditionally to exercise all the powers of the theDirectors and the auditor for the year Company to allot ordinary shares and to grant RESOLUTION 12 ended 31 December 2014. rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security To re-elect Lim Haw-Kuang as a Director into, ordinary shares Rights, in accordance RESOLUTION 2 of the Company.
with Section 551 of the Act, up to an aggregate To approve the Directors Annual Report on RESOLUTION 13 nominal amount of 113 813 870.
Remuneration as set out on pages 62 and 63, To re-elect Simon Lowth as a Director and 66 to 67 of the Companys Annual This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Company.
Report and Accounts for the year ended ofthe next AGM of the Company.
31December 2014, in accordance with Section RESOLUTION 14 The Directors shall be entitled to exercise all 439 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
To re-elect Sir David Manning as a Director the powers of the Company to make offers or of the Company.
RESOLUTION 3 agreements before the expiry of such authority To declare a final dividend of 14.37 cents RESOLUTION 15 which would or might require ordinary shares pershare in respect of the year ended To re-elect Mark Seligman as a Director to be allotted or Rights to be granted after 31December 2014.
The final dividend is of the Company.
such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled payableon 22 May 2015 to holders of ordinary to allot ordinary shares and grant Rights pursuant RESOLUTION 16 shares of 10 pence each in the Company to any such offer or agreement as if this authority To re-elect Patrick Thomas as a Director ordinary shares on the register of members had not expired.
All unexercised authorities of the Company.
atthe close of business on 24 April 2015, previously granted to the Directors to allot asrecommended by the Directors.
RESOLUTION 17 ordinary shares and grant Rights be and To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor arehereby revoked.
RESOLUTION 4 of the Company, to hold office until the To elect Helge Lund as a Director SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS conclusion of the next general meeting of the of the Company.
RESOLUTION 21 Company at which annual accounts are laid.
In place of all existing authorities, to authorise RESOLUTION 5 RESOLUTION 18 the Directors, in accordance with Section 561 To re-elect Vivienne Cox as a Director To authorise the Audit Committee of the of the Act, to allot equity securities within the of the Company.
Board to determine the remuneration meaning of the Act for cash pursuant to the RESOLUTION 6 of the auditor.
authority conferred by Resolution 20 and or To re-elect Pam Daley as a Director tosell treasury shares as if the relevant section RESOLUTION 19 of the Company.
of the Act did not apply in respect of any such To authorise the Company, and all the allotment or sale, provided that this power RESOLUTION 7 companies that are subsidiaries of the shall be limited to: To re-elect Martin Ferguson as a Director Company, in accordance with Sections 366 of the Company.
and 367 of the Act, to: a the allotment of equity securities and or sale of treasury shares for cash in connection RESOLUTION 8 a make political donations to political parties with an offer of securities in favour of: To re-elect Andrew Gould as a Director or independent election candidates up to of the Company.
a total aggregate amount of 15 000: i ordinary shareholders in proportion asnearly as practicable to their existing RESOLUTION 9 b make political donations to political holding: and To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director organisations other than political parties up of the Company.
to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: and ii other persons entitled to participate therein, RESOLUTION 10 c incur political expenditure up to a total To re-elect Sir John Hood as a Director aggregate amount of 20 000, of the Company.
during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, provided that, in any event, the total aggregate amount shall not exceed 50 000.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION | NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF BG GROUP PLC 147 subject to such exclusions or other c the minimum price exclusive of expenses arrangements as the Directors may deem that may be paid for any such ordinary necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shareis 10 pence, being the nominal shares, fractional entitlements or legal or valueofthat share.
practical problems arising under the laws of This authority shall expire at the conclusion any overseas territory or the requirements of ofthe next AGM of the Company, unless any regulatory body or stock exchange or by previously renewed, varied or revoked by virtue of ordinary shares being represented by theCompany in general meeting.
depositary receipts or any other matter: and The Company may purchase its ordinary shares b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph under any contract made prior to the expiry a of this Resolution 21 up to an aggregate ofsuch authority, which contract will or may nominal amount of 17 072 080. be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry This authority shall expire upon the expiry of of such authority, as if this authority had the general authority conferred by Resolution notexpired.
20, save that the Directors shall be entitled RESOLUTION 23 toexercise all of the powers of the Company That a general meeting of the Company, to make offers or agreements before the otherthan an AGM, may be called on not expiry of such power, which would or might lessthan 14 clear days notice.
require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry, and the Directors shall be entitled By order of the Board to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement, as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
RESOLUTION 22 To authorise the Directors generally and unconditionally, in accordance with the Act, STEVE ALLEN tomake market purchases within the meaning COMPANY SECRETARY of Section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the 18 March 2015 Directors may from time to time determine, provided that: Registered Office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, United Kingdom a the maximum number of ordinary Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 shareshereby authorised to be acquired is 341 441 611: b the maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid for any such ordinary share is the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotations for an ordinary share asderived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid foran ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: and BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
