142 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES BG Group publishes certain additional BG Group also uses financial instruments, NET BORROWINGS AND RETURN information in a non-statutory format in including derivatives, to manage foreign ONAVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED order to provide readers with an increased exchange and interest rate exposure.
These BG Group provides a reconciliation of insight into the underlying performance instruments are required to be recognised net borrowings and an analysis of the ofthe business.
The measures the Group atfair value or amortised cost on the balance amounts included within net borrowings usesare explained below.
sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these as this is an important liquidity measure instruments have been designated either for the Group.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE as hedges of foreign exchange movements Business Performance excludes discontinued Return on average capital employed associated with the Groups net investments operations and disposals, certain re-measurements represents Business Performance profit inforeign operations, or as hedges of interest and impairments and certain other exceptional excluding disposals, re-measurements rate risk.
Where these instruments represent items see below as exclusion of these items and impairments excluding net finance economic hedges but cannot be designated provides a clear and consistent presentation costs income on net borrowings, asa ashedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements of the underlying operating performance percentage of average capital employed.
infair value, together with foreign exchange ofthe Groups ongoing business.
Further information on these measures movements associated with the underlying is provided on page 139. borrowings and certain inter-company BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures associated with its balances, are recorded in the income statement FREE CASH FLOW and disclosed separately as disposals, marketing and optimisation activity.
This Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary, activity enables the Group to take advantage re-measurements and impairments.
It is considered Realised gains and losses relating to the more appropriate to include both unrealised instruments referred to above are included in and realised gains and losses arising from Business Performance.
This presentation best themark-to-market of derivatives associated reflects the underlying performance of the withthis activity in Business Performance.
business since it distinguishes between the DISPOSALS, CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS temporary timing differences associated withre-measurements under IAS 39 rules ANDIMPAIRMENTS BG Groups commercial arrangements for andactual realised gains and losses.
marketing gas include the use of gas sales BG Group has also separately identified profits contracts.
While the activity surrounding and losses associated with the disposal of thesecontracts involves the physical delivery non-current assets, impairments of non-current ofgas, certain gas sales contracts are classified assets and certain other exceptional items, as derivatives under the rules of IAS 39, Financial including taxation, asthey require separate Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, disclosure inorder toprovide a clearer andare required to be measured at fair valueat understanding ofthe results forthe period.
Unrealised gains and losses on these contracts reflect thecomparison For a reconciliation between Total Results between current market gas prices and the actual and Business Performance, and details of prices to be realised under the gas sales contracts, disposals, re-measurements and impairments, andare disclosed separately as disposals, see note 1, page 98, note 4, page 105 and re-measurements andimpairments.
BG Group also uses commodity instruments JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES tomanage certain price exposures in respect Under IFRS, the results from joint ventures of optimising the timing and location of its andassociates, accounted for under the equity physical gas, LNG and oil sales commitments.
method, are required to be presented net These instruments are also required to be of finance costs and tax on the face of the measured at fair value at the balance sheet income statement.
Given the relevance of date under IAS 39 and, where practical, have these businesses within BG Group, the results been designated as formal hedges.
However, ofjoint ventures and associates are presented IAS39 does not always allow the matching before interest and tax, and after tax.
This offair values to the economically hedged value approach provides additional information of the related commodity, resulting in unrealised onthe source of BGGroups operating profits.
movements in fair value being recorded in For a reconciliation between operating profit theincome statement.
These movements in and earnings, including andexcluding the fair value, together with any unrealised gains results of joint ventures andassociates, and losses associated with discontinued seenote 1, page 98. hedge-accounting relationships that continue torepresent economic hedges, aredisclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements andimpairments.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
