16 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Investment Process While the Trust has always taken a long-term view of investing Investment selection we have evolved and enhanced our investment process in the past year.
We believe that companies which will be successful Stocks need to meet all three elements of investment selection: over the long term tend to have better quality management and robust business fundamentals, attractive valuations and this factor is often under-appreciated by the broader investment sustainability to be considered for selection in the portfolio.
Over time, these positive characteristics become evident in the financial performance of these companies.
By constructing portfolios of undervalued companies with strong business fundamentals and sustainable business models, we will deliver strong investment returns.
Sustainable Attractive Companies Valuation Value drivers Sustainable development and responsible businesses practice are core to our process.
Our process identifies companies with Robust Business strong sustainability and ESG credentials and robust business Fundamentals fundamentals.
It then integrates this assessment into in-depth analysis of valuations as part of the investment process.
For each sector, the investment team identifies material environmental, social and governance ESG factors which affect financial 1. Business fundamentals prospects.
Companies are assessed against sector-relevant The team assesses business fundamentals on the following metrics: factors.
Longer term value drivers are identified through exposure to four key themes: Climate Change, Quality of Life, Returns Return on Equity ROE is higher than their peers, Sustainable Consumption and Resilience.
driven by net income sales or the asset turnover rather than being driven by debt ratios.
Investment themes Return on Capital To exceed the cost of capital.
The investment team considers the extent to which potential Resilience Companies need to be able to sustain their ROE.
investments will benefit from exposure to four key investment Net debt must be stable and not excessive.
The team expects that companies exposed to be stable and predictable.
these long-term persistent trends will enjoy superior growth Quality of Earnings Free cash flow must be sufficient to prospects.
These themes provide support to the investment drive growth forward and earnings and operational cash case, but are not a prerequisite for an investment decision.
The flows should be highly correlated.
Trust can, and will, also invest in companies where the team consider that the strategy and quality of the management team Growth Future growth should come from gains in is not fully valued by the market, even though the stock is not a market share, or from new products or markets.
The team beneficiary of one of these themes.
distinguishes between acquisition and organic-led growth.
Sectors: Transport, Energy, Every major economy has legislation in place Climate Change to decarbonise and improve energy efficiency.
IT, Automotive, Construction Lifestyle diseases account for more premature Sectors: Healthcare, Food deaths than infectious diseases globally.
Quality of Life Producers, Education Education drives economic success.
Population and affluence are increasing.
To Sustainable Sectors: Industrials, Utilities, keep resource consumption and pollution levels Automotive, Transport, Chemicals Consumption stable, efficiency needs to improve rapidly.
Successful economies need to be robust and Sectors: IT, Retail, Automotive, secure.
Companies involved in protection, Resilience Finance, Testing Companies security and stability will flourish.
