Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 17 Expansion into new areas should not be at the expense of These ratios are compared to historic ratios for the company overall returns.
and its industry sector: and to anticipated three year growth in earnings or free cash flows.
Dividend Income Management and shareholder interests should be aligned.
There should be a stated and clear One year to three year price targets are derived.
An progressive dividend policy, and the ability to generate free integrated analysis is produced which provides consistency cash flow.
and transparency and ensures that the Trust will only invest in companies which have suitable ESG criteria, ethical Meetings with senior management and industry experts characteristics and are also undervalued by the market.
form an important aspect of the assessment of the prospects of the company.
Identifying sustainable companies While we do not target a specific number of holdings, we A Sustainability Matrix is used to identify companies aligned with expect that the portfolio will contain between 60 and 80 equity sustainable development.
Companies are assessed and rated on: positions.
We assume a holding period of at least three years for any new positions.
Risk and performance is measured against the i Product Sustainability This assesses the extent to which MSCI All Country World Index.
a companys core business helps or harms society and or the environment.
An A rating indicates a company whose Stock selection and position sizes are based on three key products or services contribute to sustainable development parameters: e. g. renewable energy.
An E rating indicates a company 1 Underlying volatility of the stock stocks with higher whose core business is in conflict with sustainable volatility will tend to have smaller active weights.
2 Strength of conviction relative to the other stocks in the ii Management Quality This assesses whether a company portfolio.
has appropriate structures, policies and practices in place for managing its ESG risks and impacts.
Management quality 3 The degree of diversification associated with the stocks in relation to the risks and opportunities represented by position in the portfolio.
potentially material ESG issues are graded from 1 excellent to 5 very poor.
Risk management Best Management Rating Worst Day-to-day responsibility for risk lies with the Portfolio Manager Product 1 2 3 4 5 and the Performance and Investment Risk team using industry Rating standard tools.
The portfolio is also monitored by senior Higher quality A Best management and Compliance, with the Performance and management, Investment Risk team regularly meeting the portfolio manager better growth B prospects to ensure all risks in the portfolio are analysed, measured, reported, and considered.
Risk is measured on an absolute and C relative basis.
A formal quarterly meeting is held between the portfolio manager and the Performance and Investment Risk D team, where the portfolio is discussed in detail.
The portfolio is constructed with a view to managing the risk inherent in the Worst E investments made.
Assessment of management quality is a key driver of this and our assessment includes our understanding of their ability to take ESG factors into account.
Valuation analysis will aim to minimise the long-term risks associated with their business and manage it accordingly.
Each stock is assessed relevant to its sector.
Using a standard template, consensus forecasts are flexed based to our own research and assumptions, using independent research, company Sell discipline meetings, site visits and sell-side analysis.
The investment team has a disciplined and systematic approach to Sales growth, EBIT margins and free cash flows, where sales, based on one and three year price targets and will initiate a relevant, are forecast over one, two and three years.
sale when the price of a stock has attained its estimate of fair value Sector specific ratios are calculated, such as Price to or when it loses its conviction in a particular stock due to a change Earnings: Price to Free Cash Flows: Price to NAV.
in the companys product sustainability or business fundamentals.
