Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 105 Information for shareholders Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, Incorporation by law, information to which the public may, for a proper Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any registered number 1731. person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
The Companys Register of Members is held at Computershare Investor Services PLC, Annual Report and Electronic Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF Communications We only send paper Annual Reports to shareholders who General Enquiries have asked us to do so.
All shareholders receive notices of our meetings and information on how to access our Annual Report.
If you have an enquiry about the Company, or wish to receive a Shareholders can opt to receive all notifications electronically by paper copy of our Annual Report, please contact the Company going to www.
htm which will provide a Secretary at our registered office: link to our registrars website.
8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Taxation Tel: 01382 321000 Fax: 01382 321185 Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a shareholding in the Company you should seek For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone professional advice.
Income Tax Investor Relations Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of the Our Director of Investor Relations can be contacted at our gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher Our website www.
co. uk contains information about which you need for your tax records will be sent to the address the Company, including daily share price and net asset value.
we have for you on the register maintained by Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated tax voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax year is paid.
Registrars If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your Our registrars are: stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax Computershare Investor Services PLC voucher.
If you invest in the Company through Alliance Trust PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Savings, it will automatically supply you with a consolidated Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH income tax voucher for income received for you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars at the above address.
You should Capital Gains Tax also contact the registrars if you would like the dividends on For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 1982, the shares registered in your own name to be sent to your bank cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes is deemed to or building society account.
You may check your holdings and be the price of the share on that date.
The market value of each view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered in Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on that date was 2.85 your own name at www.
which, when adjusted for the split on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 per share.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p Data Protection share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance The Company is a data controller as defined under the Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated shareholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, as though they acquired these shares at the same time and at whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other the same cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
106 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Share investment Bogus telephone calls Alliance Trust PLC invests primarily in equities and fixed income We have become aware of a numbers of telephone calls being and aims to generate capital growth and a progressively rising made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to buy the dividend from its portfolio of investments.
recipients shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
We suspect that these calls are bogus and to that Alliance Trust currently conducts its affairs so that its shares end we have alerted the Financial Conduct Authority FCA can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in of the names of the companies involved.
We are prohibited accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream from advising shareholders on whether to buy or to sell shares investment products and intends to continue to do so for the in Alliance Trust PLC, but recommend that if you wish to sell foreseeable future.
your shares you only deal with a financial services firm that is The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply authorised by the FCA.
to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Annual General Meeting The shares in Alliance Trust may also be suitable for institutional The 127th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be investors who seek a combination of capital and income return.
held at 11.00am on Wednesday 29 April 2015 at the Gardyne Private investors should consider consulting an independent Theatre, Dundee and Angus College, Gardyne Road, Dundee financial adviser who specialises in advising on the acquisition of DD5 1NY.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the business of the shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
meeting, is sent to all shareholders.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear any loss that may result.
Financial calendar Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to 31 December 2015 are on or around: Risks 30 June 2015 including special dividend If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should take professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares is 30 September 2015 suitable for you.
You should be aware that: 31 December 2015 Investment should be made for the long term.
31 March 2016 The price of a share will be affected by the supply and 30 June 2016 demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying value of the assets of the Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the Company at a Investor forums discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the movement of the We are pleased to announce that we will be holding two discount premium over the period you own the share, as well investor presentations during 2015: as the capital performance of the Companys own assets.
Date Venue The assets owned by the Company may have exposure Wednesday Gardyne Theatre, Dundee, following to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market 29 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value Tuesday Pullman London St Pancras, Euston of your investment to go up or down.
29 September 2015 Road, London Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get back will depend on investment performance.
You may not Details of these and future events can be found at get back the amount you invest.
co. uk ati investorrelations agm.
co. uk ati investorrelations investorforum.
