73 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Notes 1 General Information Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 105.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
The following notes refer to the year ended 31 December 2014 and the comparatives, which are in brackets, for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement, both in application of accounting policies, which are set out below, and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Valuation of unlisted investments Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at the Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary investments are valued in the Company and Group accounts at the Directors' estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Defined benefit scheme The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation of the defined benefit scheme's liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 25 of the financial statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit scheme surplus.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements for the reasons set out on page 47.
Basis of accounting The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, other than those stated below.
Both the parent Company and the Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated at fair value and office premises are revalued on a periodic basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance, set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2009, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial statements under the SORP save for the matters noted below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company treatment varies with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from the Companys investment portfolio.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 An amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements was introduced and became effective from 1 January 2014.
This amendment included additional accounting requirements for entities regarded as an investment entity and where the definition of an investment entity was met, consolidated financial statements were no longer required in prescribed circumstances.
An investment entity is required to measure an investment in a subsidiary at fair value through the income statement in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement if it meets specified criteria.
An investment entity is still required however to consolidate any subsidiary entity where that subsidiary provides services that relate directly to the investment entity's investment activities and is not itself regarded as an investment entity.
IFRS 10 provides that an investment entity should have the following characteristics: it has more than one investment it has more than one investor it has investors that are not related parties of the entity it has ownership interest in the form of equity or similar interests The Company qualifies as an investment entity under IFRS 10 meeting all the key characteristics defined above and as such is no longer permitted to consolidate the majority of its subsidiaries on a line by line basis, but instead recognise them as investments at fair value through the income statement.
