Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 17 Expansion into new areas should not be at the expense of These ratios are compared to historic ratios for the company overall returns.
and its industry sector: and to anticipated three year growth in earnings or free cash flows.
Dividend Income Management and shareholder interests should be aligned.
There should be a stated and clear One year to three year price targets are derived.
An progressive dividend policy, and the ability to generate free integrated analysis is produced which provides consistency cash flow.
and transparency and ensures that the Trust will only invest in companies which have suitable ESG criteria, ethical Meetings with senior management and industry experts characteristics and are also undervalued by the market.
form an important aspect of the assessment of the prospects of the company.
Identifying sustainable companies While we do not target a specific number of holdings, we A Sustainability Matrix is used to identify companies aligned with expect that the portfolio will contain between 60 and 80 equity sustainable development.
Companies are assessed and rated on: positions.
We assume a holding period of at least three years for any new positions.
Risk and performance is measured against the i Product Sustainability This assesses the extent to which MSCI All Country World Index.
a companys core business helps or harms society and or the environment.
An A rating indicates a company whose Stock selection and position sizes are based on three key products or services contribute to sustainable development parameters: e. g. renewable energy.
An E rating indicates a company 1 Underlying volatility of the stock stocks with higher whose core business is in conflict with sustainable volatility will tend to have smaller active weights.
2 Strength of conviction relative to the other stocks in the ii Management Quality This assesses whether a company portfolio.
has appropriate structures, policies and practices in place for managing its ESG risks and impacts.
Management quality 3 The degree of diversification associated with the stocks in relation to the risks and opportunities represented by position in the portfolio.
potentially material ESG issues are graded from 1 excellent to 5 very poor.
Risk management Best Management Rating Worst Day-to-day responsibility for risk lies with the Portfolio Manager Product 1 2 3 4 5 and the Performance and Investment Risk team using industry Rating standard tools.
The portfolio is also monitored by senior Higher quality A Best management and Compliance, with the Performance and management, Investment Risk team regularly meeting the portfolio manager better growth B prospects to ensure all risks in the portfolio are analysed, measured, reported, and considered.
Risk is measured on an absolute and C relative basis.
A formal quarterly meeting is held between the portfolio manager and the Performance and Investment Risk D team, where the portfolio is discussed in detail.
The portfolio is constructed with a view to managing the risk inherent in the Worst E investments made.
Assessment of management quality is a key driver of this and our assessment includes our understanding of their ability to take ESG factors into account.
Valuation analysis will aim to minimise the long-term risks associated with their business and manage it accordingly.
Each stock is assessed relevant to its sector.
Using a standard template, consensus forecasts are flexed based to our own research and assumptions, using independent research, company Sell discipline meetings, site visits and sell-side analysis.
The investment team has a disciplined and systematic approach to Sales growth, EBIT margins and free cash flows, where sales, based on one and three year price targets and will initiate a relevant, are forecast over one, two and three years.
sale when the price of a stock has attained its estimate of fair value Sector specific ratios are calculated, such as Price to or when it loses its conviction in a particular stock due to a change Earnings: Price to Free Cash Flows: Price to NAV.
in the companys product sustainability or business fundamentals.
18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Alliance Trust Investments is a specialist fund management business offering open-ended funds and investment solutions.
Business Drivers What we have done Clients We have a range of equity and fixed income products to satisfy different needs and risk appetites.
We manage a number of Clients expectations of the industry and the products that programmes targeting institutional and wholesale business including they need are changing.
UK-wide roadshows and a website with educational content www.
During the year we created the UKs first sustainable and Products responsible risk-profiled fund range.
The risk profiling of funds To be successful, managers must be able to innovate while means that financial advisers can more easily match the risk still providing products that satisfy client needs.
appetite of their client with the appropriate fund from the Sustainable Future range.
The Sustainable Future Pan-European Equity Fund continues to be attractive to major European investors.
We benefit from Alliance Trust Savings being a significant savings platform with knowledge of customer expectations.
People We have a strong and experienced investment team who are committed and passionate about driving long term value for our There is always competition for the best people and ways clients.
must be found to attract and retain those with key skills.
Our reward structures encourage a high level of deferral into our own funds which ensures commitment and alignment with our clients and shareholders.
Technology We continue to invest in market-leading investment management systems to ensure that we meet the needs of an ever-changing The pace of change is ever increasing and managers must market.
Operating Platform We strengthened our investment middle and back office functions by outsourcing them to BNY Mellon delivering a single, scalable There is a need for a structure which is adaptable and and cost effective solution.
Business Model We have recognised these changing market conditions and are operating with an average fee of 46 basis points.
There will be continued downward pressure on fees.
The results We have increased third party assets under management to 1.9bn.
We have reduced our losses by 23% to 3.2m.
Our fund managers continued to deliver strong long-term investment returns.
We have seen good net inflows, particularly in our bond funds.
We won an award for innovation for our risk-profiled fund range from Investment Week.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 19 Financial performance 2014 2013 Key Performance Indicators Results m m Year to 31 December Net Revenue 10.1 9.2 Expenses 13.3 13.4 Loss before tax 3.2 4.2 Third party assets under management Net revenue 1.9bn 2014 6% Alliance Trust Investments 10% increase in net revenue was 1.8bn 2013 mainly due to growth in assets under management including 1.5m of income from Alliance Trusts 436m seed capital investment in Alliance Trust Investments funds.
The average 46 Funds above median basis points earned on third party assets increased slightly from the prior year.
over 3 years 80% 2014 10% Expenses 89% 2013 Expenses reduced slightly from 2013.
Alliance Trust Investments share of the efficiency measures described on page 25 amounts to 1m which will also benefit the results in 2015.
The methodology used to charge shared service costs between Alliance Trust Investments and Alliance Trust is also set Operating loss out on pages 25 and 26.
During the year Alliance Trust invested 2.2m in the business.
The cumulative capital investment in Alliance Trust Investments is 42.4m.
Third party net inflows Fair value Given the achievement of net third party new business inflows 88m 2014 for the last three years, growth in the purchased SRI book of 74m 19% 2013 business and the reduced losses of the business the Directors considered it appropriate to change the methodology used to value the investment in Alliance Trust Investments.
This is now valued as a third party asset management business rather Fair value than a third party book of business.
This means that we now recognise value from future cash flows from new business in our valuation methodology.
The result is a 90% increase in fair 24.3m 2014 value to 24.3m.
90% 12.8m 2013 Further detail is found in Note 23.8 on page 99.
20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Alliance Trust Savings is a savings platform business offering a range of investment and pension products.
Business Drivers What we have done Clients We recognise that clients have individual needs.
We reflect this in the products we offer, our competitive pricing model and in Clients are becoming more demanding of the service they the different ways that we provide our service.
The quality of our expect from financial services providers.
service is repeatedly recognised by customers.
Uncertainties surrounding the referendum on Scottish We were prepared for the outcome of the referendum and independence significantly impacted financial businesses in continue to monitor the ongoing devolution debate.
Scotland for both existing and potential clients.
Market We will continue our marketing initiatives in both the direct and intermediary channels.
Commentators anticipate annual growth of over 20% until 2018.
Changes announced in 2014 will markedly change the We believe that the market will move to fewer but larger platforms pension market.
We expect the number of platforms in the of which we are confident that Alliance Trust Savings will be one.
Alliance Trust Savings is one of the top five direct platforms with a Products growing share of the intermediary market.
It also provides a wide To be successful, platforms must broaden investment choice range of investment choice.
People We have an experienced and stable team within our savings business.
Their key focus is to deliver responsible and efficient There is always competition for the best people and ways service for our customers.
We are proud of our customer service must be found to attract and retain those with key skills.
which has been recognised externally through industry awards.
To improve our customer experience and to provide a system that Operating Platform is adaptable to change we are investing in new technology.
The pace of change is ever increasing with changing IT systems and applications being continually developed and adapted.
To simplify our business we had planned to relinquish our banking There is a need for a structure which is adaptable and meets licence and move to the Client Money Regime adopted by most of the requirements of an ever changing regulatory framework.
Following unforeseen regulatory change in 2014, we reconsidered that decision and decided to retain our banking licence.
This resulted in an impairment charge in respect of the work undertaken in expectation of the change at a cost of 0.9m.
Business Model We strengthened our flat-fee structure with a more inclusive annual fee and guaranteed not to increase our charges until at least 2016.
The results Assets under administration rose 19% to 6.4bn against market growth of 13%.
We have delivered an operating profit of 0.2m before non-recurring items.
Operating profitability in the year is less than had been anticipated due to: - competitor activity: and - uncertainties surrounding Scottish independence.
Customer accounts fell by 5% however the change in our pricing model makes us more attractive to those holding investments over 50,000.
We won four awards including the Best Customer Service award from Shares Awards for the third consecutive year.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 21 Financial performance 2014 2013 Key Performance Indicators Continuing operations m m Year to 31 December Net Revenue 12.8 10.9 Expenses 12.6 10.5 Operating profit 0.2 0.4 Assets under Non-recurring RDR marketing and administration outsourcing expenditure 2.6 2.0 Impairment charge relating to retention of banking licence 0.9 - 6.4bn 2014 Total loss before tax 3.3 1.6 19% 5.4bn 2013 Excluding non-recurring RDR marketing expenditure, costs associated with outsourcing and impairment related to the decision to retain banking licence.
In addition, a provision of 0.4m has been made against the net gain of 6.7m on discontinued operations in 2013 relating to the former Full SIPP business.
Customer accounts Net revenue Net revenue increased by 17%, reflecting the increase in our 71,762 2014 5% annual fees at the start of 2014.
Although we charge flat fees to 75,796 2013 our customers, the basis point equivalent of our revenue, based on our average assets under administration, was 21 basis points.
Expenses Number of trades Expenses increased 20% as we invested in our operations team to deliver our Vision 2020 ambition.
Alliance Trust Savings 494,483 2014 investment in new technology was 3.8m which was capitalised as an intangible asset.
In line with our accounting policy, the 10% 448,080 2013 asset will be depreciated over five years from the date the system goes live for intermediaries, which is expected to be during 2015.
Non-recurring Retail Distribution Review RDR marketing expenditure, promoting the RDR readiness of our business, Operating profit largely ceased at the end of 2014, as planned, ahead of the Financial Conduct Authoritys final phase of RDR which will be fully in place by April 2016.
The methodology used to charge 0.2m 46% 2014 shared service costs between Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance 0.4m Trust is set out on pages 25 and 26.
2013 Net assets Net assets at 31 December 2014 were 21.9m.
During the year Fair value Alliance Trust invested 3.0m in the business.
The cumulative capital investment in Alliance Trust Savings is 55.8m.
31.6m 2014 18% 26.7m Fair value 2013 The Directors have adopted the same policy as last year to value Excluding non-recurring RDR marketing expenditure, the investment in Alliance Trust Savings.
This results in an 18% outsourcing expenditure and impairment charge relating to increase in fair value to 31.6m.
Further detail is found in Note the decision to retain banking licence.
