Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement, set out on page 103, in relation to going concern.
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, We have nothing to report having performed our review.
the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 65 reporting going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes units, comprising the Groups operating and non-operating businesses that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and and centralised functions.
We scoped our Group audit by focusing that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the our work on three underwriting entities: Syndicate 2001, whose sole date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we member is Amlin Corporate Member Limited, Amlin AG and Amlin have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis Europe N. V. which together are composed of five reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC continue as a going concern.
UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Other required reporting Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined Consistency of other information the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those Companies Act 2006 opinions reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the In our opinion: Group financial statements as a whole.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements We determined that certain components within the underwriting are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and entities required an audit of their complete financial information, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement as either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Specific audit set out on pages 64 to 83 with respect to internal control and risk procedures on certain balances and transactions were also performed management systems and about share capital structures is in relation to other components to ensure we obtained appropriate consistent with the financial statements.
coverage across all account balances and performed audit work to cover the areas of focus we identified and which are set out above.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting The work performed on the components, together with additional Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, procedures performed at the Group level gave us the evidence we in our opinion: needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
information in the Annual Report is: We have no Materiality materially inconsistent with the exceptions to report The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
information in the audited financial arising from this We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together statements: or responsibility.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of apparently materially incorrect based our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on, or materially inconsistent with, and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and our knowledge of the Group acquired on the financial statements as a whole.
in the course of performing our audit: or Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality otherwise misleading.
for the financial statements as a whole as follows: the statement given by the Directors We have no Overall Group 11 million 2013: 14 million.
on page 104, in accordance with exceptions to report materiality provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate arising from this Governance Code the Code, that responsibility.
How we determined it 5% of the five-year weighted average they consider the Annual Report taken profit before tax.
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Rationale for We concluded using a five-year weighted information necessary for members benchmark applied average profit before tax to be most to assess the Groups performance, relevant as this eliminates the variability business model and strategy is materially of results due to claims experience, inconsistent with our knowledge of particularly in respect of catastrophe the Group acquired in the course of losses.
This is consistent with the performing our audit.
benchmark used in the prior year audit.
the section of the Annual Report on We have no pages 77 to 81, as required by provision exceptions to report We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the arising from this them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6 million work of the Audit Committee does responsibility.
2013: 0.7 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, not appropriately address matters in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
