Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 With the exception of specific loans which have a fixed repayment date, all of the above intra Group debt is repayable on demand and corporation tax provisions reflect arms length prices for the transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company has redeemable loan stock issued by, Miles Smith Holdings Limited, an associate of the Group.
The values of these are disclosed below: 2014 2013 m m Loan issued to associate 0.2 Loan stock issued by associate 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.9 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 205 Information for shareholders Glossary Financial Calendar Accident year The calendar or accounting year in which a loss occurs.
2015 17 April Record date for proposed final dividend Actuarial best estimate An estimate produced by Amlins in-house actuarial team using 21 May Annual General Meeting statistical methods overlaid with judgement and intended to represent 28 May Payment of final dividend, subject to shareholder approval the probability-weighted average of all possible future outcomes with 24 August Expected date of announcement of interim results and the exception of unforeseen events and the emergence of new types interim dividend for the six months ending 30 June 2015 of claims.
The estimate therefore intentionally does not include any October Expected payment of interim dividend risk margin to allow for the uncertainties within the claims process.
Actual claims experience will not develop exactly as projected and may, 2016 in fact, vary significantly from the projections.
No allowance is made Feb Mar Announcement of 2015 results for discounting except where explicitly highlighted.
May Annual General Meeting AIR Electronic communications and voting Service providing up-to-date information and loss estimates for The Company has adopted electronic shareholder communication.
This enables the Company to circulate hard copies of the Annual Report and other shareholder documents only to those who opt to Beurs receive them.
Other shareholders may notify an email address to The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
which a link is sent or, failing that, they receive a paper notification informing them as and when such reports become available on our Binders binding authority website.
If any shareholder wishes to opt back in to receiving printed An authority granted by an active underwriter to an intermediary shareholder documents, or wishes to notify their email address for whereby that intermediary is entitled to accept, within certain limits, the first time or amend a previous notification, they should contact insurance business on behalf of members.
Alternatively shareholders can register their communication preference online at www.
Box at Lloyds Accommodation in the underwriting room at Lloyds from which We also provide electronic proxy voting facilities for shareholders business may be transacted with Lloyds brokers.
in respect of our AGM and generally intend to do so for any other shareholders meetings, for shares held in both CREST and Capacity certificated form.
The maximum amount of business which may be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
Dealing in Amlin shares Amlins ordinary shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Carried reserves Exchange.
The share price is listed daily in The Telegraph, The Financial Managements best estimate of the appropriate amount of reserves Times, The Times and other UK newspapers with share price services, to hold at the balance sheet date.
The carried reserves take account as well as being on the Companys and many other websites.
of specific uncertainties in the reserves and are higher than the actual best estimate.
Shareholder enquiries Amlins website is at www.
For enquiries concerning share Catastrophe bonds registration, call our registrar, Equiniti Limited, on 0871 384 2383.
Risk-based securities that pay high interest rates and provide insurance companies with a form of reinsurance to pay losses from Recent dividend payments to shareholders a catastrophe.
They allow insurance risk to be sold to institutional Dividend and other payments on Amlin ordinary shares from 1 January investors in the form of bonds, thus spreading the risk.
Other financial 2008 to date have been as follows: instruments used to transfer catastrophe risk to capital markets include catastrophe swaps and industry loss warrants.
Amount Record date Payment date per share Collateralised debt obligations CDOs 2008 final 27 March 2009 20 May 2009 11.0p Entities owning cash generating assets, which sell the rights to the 2009 interim 11 Sept 2009 8 Oct 2009 6.5p cash flows from those assets along with associated risks.
2010 second interim 19 March 2010 31 March 2010 13.5p Cede 2010 interim 10 Sept 2010 7 Oct 2010 7.2p To transfer risk from a direct insurer to his reinsurers.
2010 final 25 March 2011 19 May 2011 15.8p 2011 interim 9 Sept 2011 6 Oct 2011 7.2p Claims ratio 2011 final 10 April 2012 24 May 2012 15.8p Net claims plus claims expenses divided by net earned premium.
2012 interim 7 Sept 2012 4 Oct 2012 7.5p Co-insurance 2012 final 12 April 2013 23 May 2013 16.5p In the context of the European insurance market, co-insurance 2013 interim 6 Sept 2013 3 Oct 2013 7.8p is the joint assumption of risk between a number of insurers.
2013 final 22 April 2014 29 May 2014 18.2p Combined ratio 2014 interim 5 Sept 2014 2 Oct 2014 8.1p Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
Details of the proposed final dividend in respect of 2014 are set out in the Directors Commercial combined report on pages 102 to 103.
Policies where several different types of insurance cover are combined into one policy.
Amlin plc 206 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Contingent capital Line size Contingent capital arrangements provide the option to raise capital The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim accepted by during a defined commitment period based upon the occurrence an underwriter.
of a qualifying event, such as a defined insurance loss.
Line slip Coverholder A facility operated by a Lloyds broker whereby risks can be bound to A company authorised by a Lloyds syndicate to enter into contracts a panel of insurers through the agreement of a leading underwriter plus of insurance and or issue insurance documentation on their behalf.
one or two following markets as specified on the slip at placement.
Dynamic financial analysis DFA Loss ratio Detailed modelling assessment of the key risks facing an insurer See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
to help assess its financial position.
Key areas of use include the assessment of capital requirements and understanding the possible Non-life impact of future plans and strategies.
General insurance companies which sell policies other than life insurance, annuities or pension products.
Direct and facultative Direct property insurance and facultative reinsurance of property.
Non-monetary assets & liabilities Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries and are not expected Earned premium to be exchanged for cash, such as unearned premium reserves.
Proportion of insurance premium recognised in the income statement based on the estimated risk period falling in the financial year.
Outstanding claims Losses which have been reported to the insurer but not yet paid.
Endorsement Any addition to a policy, or addition to the printed wording, which Package changes or varies terms of, or parties to, the contract.
Excess of loss reinsurance XL Personal lines A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss paid by the reinsured Property casualty insurance products that are designed for and bought which is in excess of an agreed amount and then pays up to the limit by individuals, including homeowners and automobile policies.
Proportional reinsurance Expense ratio A type of reinsurance where the ceding insurer cedes to its reinsurer Underwriting expenses divided by net earned premium.
a predetermined proportion of the premium and liability of those policies subject to the reinsurance agreement.
Facultative Where the insurer accepts risks on an individual basis.
Quota share A form of proportional reinsurance where the reinsurer receives Gross and net underwriting a percentage of every risk, as defined by the reinsurance contracts, When referring to premium written or earned, losses or underwriting written by the ceding company.
results, these terms denote before gross and after net the application of reinsurance.
Rating agency Credit agencies which determine insurers financial strength and Gross written premium GWP company debt ratings.
Total premium written before deductions for reinsurance and commission.
Realistic disaster scenario RDS Modelling of the probable loss which may arise from a defined Incurred but not reported IBNR catastrophic event.
An estimate of claims or losses which have been incurred but Reinsurance not yet reported to the insurer.
A reinsurer assumes part of the risk and part of the premium originally taken by the insurer, known as Insurance linked securities ILS the primary company.
Insurance linked securities are financial instruments linked to insurance loss events.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding claims and IBNR.
Incurred loss Paid claims plus claims advised by a policyholder but not paid.
Retention ratio Does not include IBNR.
The percentage of the previous years premium that is renewed.
Incurred loss ratio Retrocession Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
The reinsurance of liability accepted by way of reinsurance.
Lead non-lead Return on capital employed ROCE Lead denotes an underwriter in the subscription market who sets After-tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity plus debt, the terms and price of a policy.
Following underwriters accept the adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
Return on equity ROE Letter of credit LOC After-tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity, adjusted Written undertaking by a financial institution to provide funding for any capital raisings or returns.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 207 Glossary continued Return on net tangible assets RONTA Ultimate loss ratio ULR After-tax profit divided by opening net tangible assets, adjusted for any Total forecast claims divided by total forecast premium expected to non-controlling interests.
arise from a policy or class of business.
Losses include those paid, those notified and IBNR.
Risk-based capital Risk-based capital is a method used to measure the minimum amount Underwriting year of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall The year to which a policy is allocated and to which all premiums and business operations, taking into account the size and type of risk claims in respect of that policy are attributed.
Allocation is determined taken by the insurer.
by the inception date of the policy.
Risk Management Solutions RMS Unearned premium Provider of catastrophic modelling software.
Proportion of insurance premium covering periods after the end of the financial year.
Held in the unearned premium reserve.
Service company A company set up to operate a binding authority on behalf of the Syndicate Value at Risk VaR to write business from non-Lloyds brokers or policyholders directly.
A statistical measure which calculates the possible loss over a year in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical Sidecars market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level Specialty reinsurance companies designed to provide additional capital of risk to the investments.
Investors, such as hedge funds, invest in a reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure Year of account YOA specific risks for a specific reinsurance company.
The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a policy is allocated and to which all premiums and claims in respect of that policy are attributed.
Solvency II Allocation is determined by the inception date of the policy.
A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime which intends to align solvency capital to an insurers risk profile.
Special purpose vehicle SPV Corporate entity designed to isolate financial risk, often to allow other investors to participate in that risk.
Specie The insurance of high value items including deposits, bullion and fine art.
Subordinated debt Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower priority than other debt.
If an issuer is liquidated then subordinated debt holders will only be paid after senior creditors have been fully paid.
Subscription market Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
Surplus The amount by which the gross sum insured accepted by the insurance company exceeds its own retention.
Surplus lines A reinsurance where the surplus of the reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed amount.
Once accepted, both parties pay their proportion of losses arising.
Total shareholder return TSR Returns combining share price performance and dividend payments.
Treaty A reinsurance contract covering entire portfolios of risks.
Amlin plc 208 Annual Report 2014 Directors and advisers Directors Auditors Richard Davey Chairman  LLP Simon Beale Chief Underwriting Officer 7 More London Riverside Brian Carpenter retired 30 September 2014 London Julie Chakraverty SE1 2RT Sir Alan Collins retired 22 May 2014 Marty Feinstein Joint Stockbrokers Richard Hextall Chief Finance & Operations Officer Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc Shonaid Jemmett-Page 25 Cabot Square Oliver Peterken appointed 1 September 2014 Canary Wharf Charles Philipps Chief Executive London Sir Mark Wrightson Bt E14 4QA Audit Committee Numis Securities Ltd Shonaid Jemmett-Page Chairman The London Stock Exchange Building Julie Chakraverty 10 Paternoster Square Marty Feinstein London Oliver Peterken EC4M 7LT Remuneration Committee Corporate Lawyers Sir Mark Wrightson Chairman Linklaters LLP Julie Chakraverty 1 Silk Street Shonaid Jemmett-Page London Oliver Peterken with effect from 1 March 2015 EC2Y 8HQ Risk & Solvency Committee Principal Bankers Marty Feinstein Chairman Lloyds Bank plc Julie Chakraverty 25 Gresham Street Richard Davey London Shonaid Jemmett-Page EC2V 7HN Oliver Peterken Registrar Nomination Committee Equiniti Limited Richard Davey Chairman Aspect House Julie Chakraverty Spencer Road Marty Feinstein Lancing Shonaid Jemmett-Page West Sussex Charles Philipps BN99 6DA Oliver Peterken Notes: Sir Mark Wrightson Bt Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Secretary Mark Stevens Registered Office St Helens 1 Undershaft London EC3A 8ND The paper and board used for this Report are manufactured from fibre Amlin plc is the holding Company of the Amlin Group of companies the Group, which is registered approved by the Forest Stewardship Council and are fully recyclable and in England and Wales with the registered number 02854310, and has its registered office at St Helens, biodegradable.
The printer and paper mill are certified to the environmental 1 Undershaft, London, EC3A 8ND.
The printer is also carbon neutral.
The Strategic Report has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Shareholders of the Company, for any other purpose.
The Designed and produced by Gather Strategic Report only focuses on material issues and facts and the omission of reporting on any specific www.
london topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Strategic Report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Report which contains information which cannot be included in the Strategic Report on the grounds that it is not material.
The Strategic Report, and the other sections Printed by CPI Colour.
of the Annual Report and Accounts, contains certain forward-looking statements which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties: actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied in such statements.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Amlins ability to control or estimate precisely.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Shareholders should note that certain parts of this Annual Report and Accounts have not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
Pages 01 to 63 contain the Strategic Report and pages 102 to 103 contain the Directors Report in accordance with English law.
The liabilities of each director in respect of these sections are subject to the limitations and restrictions of such law.
These sections contain additional information required by these laws and regulations to be included by the Directors in the Annual Report.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 209 Amlin plc 2014 Annual Report Amlin plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND T 020 7746 1000 F 020 7746 1696 www.
