Directors remuneration report continued Annual Statement on Remuneration 2014 continued Non-financial personal performance objectives are set at the start of the year as part of the annual performance review operating for all employees and are either agreed by the CEO or by the Chairman in the case of the CEO.
Performance Share Plan 2014 At the EGM held in November the Amlin plc 2014 Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP was approved.
This scheme will enable selected Executive Directors and senior employees of the Group to be granted awards under the scheme.
The purpose is to aid recruitment, retention, motivation and to reward achievement of superior financial returns for shareholders and long-term target underwriting returns.
Awards under the 2014 PSP will be granted annually, up to a maximum award for Executive Directors of 200% of salary over shares valued on the date of grant.
Awards will be made in the form of nil-cost options.
Once the vesting level is determined after five years in accordance with the performance condition, and provided the relevant participant is still employed by the Group, an award can be exercised within the following 30 months.
The amount to which 2014 PSP awards vest would depend on a sliding scale of financial performance determined by the Committee as set out below.
The Company plans to use the 2014 PSP to award shares in 2015.
2015 proposed target and vesting schedule RONTA target Award Vesting 10% 0% 10% 20% 10-15% 20-80% 15-18% 80-100% 18% 100% The Remuneration Committee may vary the performance target for grants in future years.
In all cases the performance target applying to grants of awards to Directors will be compliant with the Executive Pay Policy in force from time to time.
Historic awards Simon Beale will continue to be entitled to receive payments under the Capital Builder and Profit Commission schemes during 2015.
These entitlements are in respect of historic awards granted prior to the start of the Remuneration Policy and which vest during the year.
How the Remuneration Committee operates In determining the Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee consulted with and received recommendations from Mark Farrow, Director of HR, and the Chief Executive.
The Committee also received advice from Mark Stevens, Group Company Secretary, and New Bridge Street, which assisted the Committee in the 2014 financial year.
In setting the overall Remuneration Policy, the Committee made decisions in the broader context of employee remuneration throughout the Group.
The table below sets out members of the Committee who served during the year and that the Board regards as independent.
Their attendance at Committee meetings was as follows: Remuneration Committee members Meetings attended Sir Mark Wrightson 8 8 Julie Chakraverty 8 8 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 7 8 Oliver Peterken will be appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 March 2015.
The Committee meets as often as necessary to discharge its duties, with the CEO and the Chairman being invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the Company other than as a shareholder, any conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships, or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No individual is present when matters relating directly to his or her own remuneration are addressed.
The Committee last reviewed its Terms of Reference on 3 December 2014.
The Board approved the Terms of Reference at its meeting on 26 February 2015, which can be found on the Companys website in the governance section at www.
Matters considered by the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee considered the following key matters: Approving the Directors remuneration report for 2013 The annual review of all Executive Directors and senior managers remuneration packages, and approving any salary increases Reviewing achievement of Group Bonus Scheme against profit target Reviewing and approving all awards made under the PSP and LTIP, taking into account the total value of all awards made under these plans Approving the vesting level for the PSP and LTIP grant of award Considering the performance measures and targets to be applied to the 2014 PSP and LTIP awards Reviewing Director shareholding guidelines Considering external market developments and best practice in remuneration Reviewing Committee performance during 2013 Reviewing Committee terms of reference Reviewing statement in respect of remuneration consultants Reviewing and approving CB and PC plan payments Reviewing Remuneration Policy and associated shareholder consultation documentation Reviewing amendment to incentive plans Amlin plc 100 Annual Report 2014
