1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.1.
5 About this Strategic Report this Strategic report meets the requirements of the Strategic these forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions reporting required by the uK Companies act and the operating of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, and Financial review required by the australian Corporations act.
uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially this Strategic report provides insight into BHP Billitons strategy, from those expressed in the statements contained in this annual operating and business model and objectives.
readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on principal risks the Company faces and how these risks might affect forward looking statements.
it also gives our perspective on our recent operational and financial performance.
For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects or mines described in this annual report will be based, in part, We intend this disclosure to assist shareholders and other upon the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum stakeholders to understand and interpret the Consolidated Financial products produced, which may vary significantly from current Statements prepared in accordance with international Financial levels.
these variations, if materially adverse, may affect the reporting Standards iFrS included in this annual report.
the basis timing or the feasibility of the development of a particular of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is set out in project, the expansion of certain facilities or mines, or the note 1 accounting policies to the Financial Statements.
to obtain full continuation of existing operations.
details of the financial and operational performance of BHP Billiton this Strategic report should be read in conjunction with the other factors that may affect the actual construction or production Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated lives of operations, mines or facilities include our ability to profitably We have excluded certain information from this Strategic report produce and transport the minerals, petroleum and or metals on the basis that including the information would cause unreasonable extracted to applicable markets: the impact of foreign currency prejudice to the Group.
this is because such disclosure could be exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum misleading due to the fact it is premature or preliminary in nature, or metals we produce: activities of government authorities in the relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine countries where we are exploring or developing projects, facilities confidentiality between the Group, and its suppliers and clients, or or mines, including increases in taxes, changes in environmental would otherwise unreasonably damage the business.
the categories and other regulations and political uncertainty: labour unrest: of information omitted include forward looking estimates and and other factors identified in the risk factors in section 1.7.
2 projections prepared for internal management purposes, information of this annual report.
regarding the Groups assets and projects, which is developing and susceptible to change, and information relating to commercial except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group contracts and pricing modules.
does not undertake to publicly update or review any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
Section 1 of this annual report 2014 constitutes our Strategic report 2014. references to sections beyond section 1 are references to Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
sections in this annual report 2014.
Shareholders may obtain a hard copy of the annual report free of charge by contacting our 1.1.
7 Proposed demerger of assets registrars, whose details are set out in our Corporate Directory on 19 august 2014, we announced plans to create an independent at the end of this annual report.
global metals and mining company based on a selection of BHP Billitons high-quality aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel and silver assets.
Separating these assets via a demerger has the annual report 2014 is available online at.
the potential to unlock shareholder value by significantly simplifying the BHP Billiton Group and creating a new company specifically designed to enhance the performance of its assets.
6 Forward looking statements once simplified, BHP Billiton will be almost exclusively focused this annual report contains forward looking statements, including on our large, long-life iron ore, copper, coal, petroleum and potash statements regarding trends in commodity prices and currency basins.
With fewer assets and a greater upstream focus, we plan to exchange rates: demand for commodities: production forecasts: reduce costs and improve the productivity of our largest Businesses plans, strategies and objectives of management: closure or more quickly.
as a result, our portfolio is expected to generate growth divestment of certain operations or facilities including associated in free cash flow and a superior return on investment.
costs : anticipated production or construction commencement dates: capital costs and scheduling: operating costs: anticipated a final Board decision on the proposed demerger will only be made productive lives of projects, mines and facilities: provisions and once the necessary government, taxation, regulatory and other third contingent liabilities: and tax and regulatory developments.
party approvals are secured on satisfactory terms.
once the necessary approvals are in place, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of on the proposed demerger.
terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, For additional information on the proposed demerger of assets, plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar refer to section 1.6.
4 of this Annual Report words.
these statements discuss future expectations concerning the results of operations or financial condition, or provide other forward looking statements.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 5 5 1 Strategic report continued 1.2 BHP Billiton locations 6 6 6 40 35 4 40 0 3 35 5 42 6 4 42 2 19 1 7 41 1 19 9 1 1 7 7 4 41 1 9 40 4 3 35 9 9 4 4 3 3 5 42 20 5 5 25 37 19 2 20 0 38 2 25 5 1 7 3 37 7 41 3 38 8 31 9 14 4 3 3 31 1 Petroleum and Potash 1 14 4 Copper 26 P Pe et tr rol ole eu um and m and P Po ot ta as sh h 13 Iron Ore 2 Copp Coppe er r 2 26 6 16 5 10 Coal 22 1 13 3 I Ir ron O on Or re e 2 2 15 21 1 16 6 17 11 28 20 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 39 1 10 0 32 Coa Coall 2 22 2 25 24 1 15 5 2 21 1 27 Offices 1 17 7 37 1 11 1 2 28 8 Aluminiu Aluminium, m, Mangan Mangane es se e and Nic and Nick ke ell 3 39 9 12 3 32 2 29 38 18 34 2 24 4 2 27 7 36 O Of ff fic ice es s 30 1 12 2 2 29 9 1 18 8 31 3 34 4 23 3 36 6 33 3 30 0 14 8 2 23 3 Petroleum and Potash 3 33 3 26 8 8 Copper 26 2 26 6 13 Iron Ore 2 16 10 BH CoaP l Billiton locations 22 15 21 17 11 28 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 39 32 BHP Billiton locations 27 24 Offices 12 29 18 34 36 30 23 33 PETROLEUM AND POTASH COPPER 8 26 Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership PETROLEUM AND POTASH COPPER COAL ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL continued 1 uS onshore uS onshore shale liquids and gas fields 1100% 10 australia Cannington Silver, lead and zinc mine located 100% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country AssetDescription Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership in arkansas, louisiana and texas in northwest Queensland 1 uS onshore uS onshore shale liquids and gas fields 1100% 10 australia Cannington Silver, lead and zinc mine located 100% 17 South africa energy Coal open-cut and underground energy coal 5090% 27 South africa Manganese integrated producer of manganese 44.460% BHP Billiton locations 2 australia australia operated offshore oil fields and 4090% 11 Chile escondida the worlds largest copper producing 57.5% in arkansas, louisiana and texas in northwest Queensland South africa mines and processing operations South africa ore and alloy Production unit onshore gas processing facilities mine, located in northern Chile in Western australia and Victoria 2 australia australia operated offshore oil fields and 4090% 11 Chile escondida the worlds largest copper producing 57.5% 18 australia new South Wales open-cut energy coal mine and coal 100% 28 Mozambique Mozal aluminium smelter near Maputo 47.1% 12 australia olympic Dam australias biggest underground 100% Production unit onshore gas processing facilities mine, located in northern Chile energy Coal preparation plant in new South Wales 3 uS Gulf of Mexico operated offshore oil and gas fields 3544% copper mine, also producing uranium, 29 australia nickel West integrated sulphide mining, 100% in Western australia and Victoria Production unit in the Gulf of Mexico gold and silver 12 australia olympic Dam australias biggest underground 100% 19 uS new Mexico two energy coal mines in new Mexico 100% concentrating, smelting and refining 3 3 uS Gulf of Mexico operated offshore oil and gas fields 3544% copper mine, also producing uranium, Coal operation in Western australia 4 Pakistan Pakistan operated onshore oil and gas fields 38.5% 13 Chile Pampa norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and 100% Production unit in the Gulf of Mexico gold and silver 2 Production unit Spence open-cut mines, producing 20 Colombia Cerrejn open-cut energy coal mine with 33.3% 30 australia Worsley integrated bauxite mine and alumina 86% copper cathode in northern Chile 4 Pakistan Pakistan operated onshore oil and gas fields 38.5% 13 Chile Pampa norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and 100% integrated rail and port operations refinery in Western australia 5 trinidad trinidad operated offshore oil and gas fields 45% PETROLEUM AND POTASH COPPER Production unit Spence open-cut mines, pr 2 oducing 2 and tobago Production unit 14 Peru antamina open-cut copper and zinc mine, 33.8% 21 australia BHP Billiton open-cut and underground metallurgical 50% 31 Brazil alumar aluminium refinery and smelter 3640% copper cathode in northern Chile located in northern Peru 5 trinidad Re f Country trinidad Asset operated offshor Description e oil and gas fields 45% Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Mitsubishi coal mines in the Queensland Bowen 6 uK uK Production operated offshore oil and gas fields 1646.1% 2 and tobago Production unit 1 14 Peru antamina open-cut copper and zinc mine, 33.8% alliance Basin and Hay Point Coal terminal unit 1 uS onshore uS onshore shale liquids and gas fields 1100% 10 australia Cannington Silver, lead and zinc mine located 100% BHP BILLITON PRINCIPAL OFFICE LOCATIONS located in northern Peru 6 uK uK Production operated offshor in ark e oil and gas fields ansas, louisiana and texas 1646.1% in northwest Queensland 22 australia BHP Billiton two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in 80% 7 algeria algeria Joint Joint interest onshore oil and gas unit 38% IRON ORE 1 unit 2 Mitsui Coal the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland interest unit 2 australia australia operated offshore oil fields and 4090% 11 Chile escondida the worlds largest copper producing 57.5% Ref Country Location Office Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 7 algeria algeria JointP roduction unit Joint interest onshor onshore gas pr e oil and gas unit ocessing facilities 38% IRON ORE mine, located in northern Chile 23 australia illawarra Coal underground metallurgical coal mines in 100% 8 australia australia Joint Joint interest offshore oil and 8.350% 32 australia Brisbane Coal Head office 2 interest unit 2 in Western australia and Victoria southern new South Wales, with access interest unit gas fields in Bass Strait and 15 australia Western australia integrated iron ore mines, rail and 85% 12 australia olympic Dam australias biggest underground 100% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 33 australia Melbourne Global Headquarters to rail and port facilities north West Shelf iron ore port operations in the Pilbara region 8 australia 3 uS australia Joint Gulf of Me Joint inter xico est of oper fshor ated of e oil and fshor e oil and gas fields 8.3 50% 3544% copper mine, also producing uranium, 2 of Western australia 34 australia Perth aluminium, Manganese and nickel Head office interest unit Production unit gas fields in Bass Str in the Gulf of Me ait and xico 15 australia Western australia integrated iron or gold and silver e mines, rail and 85% 9 uS Gulf of Mexico Joint interest offshore oil and 544% iron ore Head office north West Shelf iron ore port oper 2 ations in the Pilbara region Joint interest gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 16 Brazil Samarco open-cut iron ore mine, concentrators 50% 4 Pakistan Pakistan operated onshore oil and gas fields 38.5% 13 Chile Pampa norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and 100% ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL 2 of Western australia unit and pelletising facilities 35 Canada Saskatoon Potash Head office 9 uS Gulf of Mexico Production unit Joint interest offshore oil and 544% Spence open-cut mines, producing 2 Joint interest gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 16 Brazil Samarco open-cut iron or copper cathode in norther e mine, concentrators n Chile 50% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 36 Chile Santiago Copper Head office 5 trinidad trinidad operated offshore oil and gas fields 45% 2 unit and pelletising facilities 2 and tobago Production unit 14 Peru antamina open-cut copper and zinc mine, 33.8% 24 South africa aluminium one aluminium smelter at richards Bay 100% 1 Liverpool Bay was divested in FY2014.
37 Malaysia Kuala lumpur Global Shared Services Centre located in northern Peru South africa 2 6 Non-oper uK ated joint v uK P entur roduction e. operated offshore oil and gas fields 1646.1% 38 Singapore Singapore Marketing Head office 1 1 Liverpool Bay was divested in FY2014.
unit 25 Colombia Cerro Matoso integrated laterite ferronickel mining and 99.9% 3 Completed sale of Navajo Mine and will retain control until final transfer.
39 South africa Johannesburg Corporate office smelting complex in northern Colombia 2 Non-operated joint venture.
7 algeria algeria Joint Joint interest onshore oil and gas unit 38% IRON ORE Locations are current at 11 September 2014.
2 40 uK london Corporate office 3 Completed sale of Navajo Mine and will r interest unit etain contr ol until final transfer.
26 australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore in the 60% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership australia northern territory and manganese alloys 41 uS Houston Petroleum Head office Locations are curr 8 ent at 1 australia 1 September 2 australia Joint 014.
Joint interest offshore oil and 8.350% in tasmania 2 interest unit gas fields in Bass Strait and 15 australia Western australia integrated iron ore mines, rail and 85% 42 uS new York Corporate office north West Shelf iron ore port operations in the Pilbara region of Western australia 9 uS Gulf of Mexico Joint interest offshore oil and 544% 6 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 2 Joint interest gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 16 Brazil Samarco open-cut iron ore mine, concentrators 50% 2 unit and pelletising facilities 1 Liverpool Bay was divested in FY2014.
3 Completed sale of Navajo Mine and will retain control until final transfer.
Locations are current at 11 September 2014.
1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 6 6 40 35 40 35 42 42 19 1 7 41 19 1 7 41 9 4 3 9 4 3 5 20 5 25 37 20 38 25 37 38 31 14 31 Petroleum and Potash 14 Copper 26 Petroleum and Potash 13 Iron Ore 2 Copper 26 16 10 Coal 22 13 Iron Ore 2 15 21 16 17 11 28 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 39 10 32 Coal 22 24 15 21 27 Offices 17 11 28 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 39 12 32 29 18 34 24 27 36 Offices 30 12 29 18 34 23 36 33 30 8 23 33 26 8 26 COAL ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL continued Ref Country AssetDescription Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership COAL ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL continued 17 South africa energy Coal open-cut and underground energy coal 5090% 27 South africa Manganese integrated producer of manganese 44.460% Ref Country AssetDescription Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership South africa mines and processing operations South africa ore and alloy 17 South africa energy Coal open-cut and underground energy coal 5090% 27 South africa Manganese integrated producer of manganese 44.460% 18 australia new South Wales open-cut energy coal mine and coal 100% 28 Mozambique Mozal aluminium smelter near Maputo 47.1% South africa mines and processing operations South africa ore and alloy energy Coal preparation plant in new South Wales 29 australia nickel West integrated sulphide mining, 100% 18 australia new South Wales open-cut energy coal mine and coal 100% 28 Mozambique Mozal aluminium smelter near Maputo 47.1% 19 uS new Mexico two energy coal mines in new Mexico 100% concentrating, smelting and refining energy Coal 3 preparation plant in new South Wales Coal operation in Western australia 29 australia nickel West integrated sulphide mining, 100% 19 uS new Mexico 2 two energy coal mines in new Mexico 100% concentrating, smelting and refining 20 Colombia Cerrejn open-cut energy coal mine with 33.3% 30 australia Worsley integrated bauxite mine and alumina 86% 3 Coal operation in Western australia integrated rail and port operations refinery in Western australia 2 20 Colombia Cerrejn open-cut energy coal mine with 33.3% 30 australia Worsley 2 integrated bauxite mine and alumina 86% 21 australia BHP Billiton open-cut and underground metallurgical 50% 31 Brazil alumar aluminium refinery and smelter 3640% integrated rail and port operations refinery in Western australia Mitsubishi coal mines in the Queensland Bowen 2 alliance Basin and Hay Point Coal terminal 21 australia BHP Billiton open-cut and underground metallurgical 50% 31 Brazil alumar aluminium refinery and smelter 3640% BHP BILLITON PRINCIPAL OFFICE LOCATIONS Mitsubishi coal mines in the Queensland Bowen 22 australia BHP Billiton two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in 80% alliance Basin and Hay Point Coal terminal Mitsui Coal the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland Ref Country Location Office BHP BILLITON PRINCIPAL OFFICE LOCATIONS 22 australia BHP Billiton two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in 80% 23 australia illawarra Coal underground metallurgical coal mines in 100% 32 australia Brisbane Coal Head office Mitsui Coal the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland southern new South Wales, with access Ref Country Location Office 33 australia Melbourne Global Headquarters to rail and port facilities 23 australia illawarra Coal underground metallurgical coal mines in 100% 32 australia Brisbane Coal Head office southern new South Wales, with access 34 australia Perth aluminium, Manganese and nickel Head office 33 australia Melbourne Global Headquarters to rail and port facilities iron ore Head office ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL 34 australia Perth aluminium, Manganese and nickel Head office 35 Canada Saskatoon Potash Head office iron ore Head office Ref Country Asset Description Ownership ALUMINIUM, MANGANESE AND NICKEL 36 Chile Santiago Copper Head office 35 Canada Saskatoon Potash Head office 24 South africa aluminium one aluminium smelter at richards Bay 100% 37 Malaysia Kuala lumpur Global Shared Services Centre Ref Country Asset Description Ownership South africa 36 Chile Santiago Copper Head office 38 Singapore Singapore Marketing Head office 24 South africa aluminium one aluminium smelter at richards Bay 100% 25 Colombia Cerro Matoso integrated laterite ferronickel mining and 99.9% 37 Malaysia Kuala lumpur Global Shared Services Centre South africa 39 South africa Johannesburg Corporate office smelting complex in northern Colombia 38 Singapore Singapore Marketing Head office 25 Colombia Cerro Matoso integrated laterite ferronickel mining and 99.9% 40 uK london Corporate office 26 australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore in the 60% 39 South africa Johannesburg Corporate office smelting complex in northern Colombia australia northern territory and manganese alloys 41 uS Houston Petroleum Head office 40 uK london Corporate office in tasmania 26 australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore in the 60% 42 uS new York Corporate office australia northern territory and manganese alloys 41 uS Houston Petroleum Head office in tasmania 42 uS new York Corporate office BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 7 7 1 Strategic report continued 1.3 Chairmans Review For the past 10 years we have also been simplifying our portfolio and looking at ways to make your Company simpler and more productive.
in the last two years alone we have sold uS$6.7 billion of assets at attractive prices.
this year, we have proposed another step in our evolution with the demerger of selected aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel and silver assets.
this proposed demerger will allow BHP Billiton to improve the productivity of our largest businesses more quickly and create a new global metals and mining company specifically designed to enhance the performance of the demerged assets.
All BHP Billiton shareholders would retain their existing shares in BHP Billiton and receive shares in the new company pro rata with your BHP Billiton shareholding.
Following the demerger, BHP Billiton would seek to steadily increase or at least maintain its dividend per share in uS dollar terms implying a higher payout ratio.
Subject to final Board approval to proceed, shareholder approval and the receipt of satisfactory third party approvals, the demerger is expected to be completed in the first half of the 2015 calendar year.
Against the backdrop of external and organisational change, we continue to be guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter, which defines Dear Shareholder our values.
our first Charter value is Sustainability and we maintain i am pleased to report that your Company delivered strong a relentless focus on the health and safety of our people and the performance this past financial year.
BHP Billiton reported an communities in which we operate.
this year, we reported a record Attributable profit of uS$13.8 billion and net operating cash flow low total recordable injury frequency and no fatalities at our of uS$25.4 billion.
these strong results were underpinned by operated assets during the period.
While this is an encouraging increased production and productivity-led cost efficiencies.
result, our efforts to protect the health and safety of our people will be unrelenting.
our balance sheet remains strong and we have maintained our solid A credit rating.
the full-year progressive base dividend was We are committed to making a positive contribution to the increased by 4.3 per cent to 121 uS cents per share.
At the same communities where we live and conduct our business.
this year, time, the Company has continued to invest in high-return growth we contributed one per cent of pre-tax profit, investing uS$242 million options within the existing portfolio.
across a wide range of programs and activities to support our communities.
these funds support local programs, such as the leAD Markets for our commodities have been affected by the mixed project which seeks to improve the lives of smallholder farmers in global economic environment, with solid but moderately slower the rural Maputo Province of Mozambique: an innovative education Chinese growth, underlying momentum in the united States and program in Pakistan that has seen 800 children graduate from the some positive signs in Japan, while the european union has remained program with another 2,000 currently studying in 13 model schools: weak.
overall, demand for our commodities continues to be strong, the AnDA project which addresses the needs of people displaced underpinning the long-term outlook for our portfolio of products.
by conflict and vulnerable communities in the Cordoba District of We continuously review our strategy against changes in the Colombia to complement poverty reduction efforts by the national external environment, including climate change.
We consider government: and Bush Blitz, a unique species discovery program various scenarios and the risks and opportunities facing the natural in Australia.
resources sector and seek to optimise the investments we make our community programs are in addition to the uS$9.9 billion on behalf of shareholders.
in taxes and royalties we paid to governments and our broader our position on climate change is clear.
Sustainable growth requires an economic contribution in terms of jobs, capital investment and effective response to climate change.
We accept the intergovernmental support of local businesses.
Panel on Climate Changes assessment that warming of the climate i would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge David Crawford is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and the physical impacts who will retire from the BHP Billiton Board in november 2014.
We believe that the Boards approach to strategy, has served with distinction on the board of BHP and BHP Billiton for investment decision-making and portfolio management, as well 20 years.
in announcing our plans to create an independent global as the diversity of our overall portfolio, positions us to manage and metals and mining company we said that David would become the respond to changes and capture opportunities to grow shareholder new companys inaugural chairman.
His skills and experience make value over time.
We believe that the resilience of our portfolio under David the right person to guide the new company through its entry a range of climate change scenarios is underpinned by its diversity into the global resources sector.
and by the relatively short pay-back periods for most of our present and future investments in fossil fuels production.
BHP Billiton in line with our planned approach to Board succession, we is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in its own have appointed Malcolm Brinded to the Board as a non-executive operations, to actively participating in the development and Director and member of the Sustainability Committee.
Malcolms deployment of low-emissions technologies and to being a leader deep experience in energy, governance and sustainability will in our sector on climate change action and advocacy.
make a significant contribution to the Board.
next year marks the 130th anniversary of the founding and stock in summary, a strong management team and over 123,000 talented exchange listing of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company limited.
employees and contractors in 21 countries have improved safety, over these years the Company has reshaped its business to maintain increased production and delivered more value for shareholders and its industry leadership.
We moved from mining silver, lead and zinc all our stakeholders.
Your Company does make a positive difference.
at Broken Hill, to producing steel, and then to petroleum in Bass BHP Billiton helps lift living standards for people around the world Strait, iron ore in the Pilbara, metallurgical coal in the Bowen Basin and we work hard to add value to the communities, regions and and copper in the Andes.
countries where we live and do business.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman 8 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.4 Chief Executive Officers Report in August 2014, we announced a proposal to create an independent global metals and mining company based on a selection of BHP Billitons high-quality aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel and silver assets.
Separating these assets via a demerger has the potential to unlock shareholder value by significantly simplifying the BHP Billiton Group and creating two portfolios of complementary assets.
once simplified, BHP Billiton would be almost exclusively focused on our large, long-life iron ore, copper, coal, petroleum and potash basins.
With fewer assets and a greater upstream focus, BHP Billiton would be able to reduce costs and improve the productivity of our largest businesses more quickly.
the proposed demerger remains subject to the receipt of satisfactory third party approvals, final Board approval and shareholder vote.
in addition to our work to simplify BHP Billitons portfolio, we continue to support the communities where we operate.
We support local economies through employment, infrastructure development, taxes and royalties, as well as purchasing local goods and services.
We are part of these communities and we strive to be a positive and active participant in community life.
in FY2014, our voluntary community i am pleased to report that BHP Billiton delivered a strong set investment amounted to uS$242 million.
of financial results in FY2014, with improvements in operating performance and safety supported by a continued focus on We are proud that the supply of our products supports global productivity.
this performance was achieved against a background economic growth and development, with the associated reduction of improving economic conditions in the united States, Japan and in poverty and improvement in living standards.
Continued global the european union, solid but slower Chinese economic growth development depends on access to affordable energy and other and a decline in key commodity prices in a highly competitive critical resources.
Sustainable growth requires an effective response to climate in a year of record production we had no fatalities at our operated change.
We accept the intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes assets and improved our total recordable injury frequency performance assessment that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human by nine per cent to 4.2 injuries per million hours worked.
While we influence is clear, and physical impacts are unavoidable.
We are are encouraged to have recorded a year without fatalities, we must taking action by focusing on reducing our emissions, increasing our never rest on past performance.
We will continue to relentlessly preparedness for physical climate impacts and working with others, identify and manage material health and safety risks to protect including industry and governments, to support effective responses our people and communities.
We will, through material investments in low-emissions technology, contribute to reducing emissions from Annual production records were achieved at 12 of our operations fossil fuels.
We view climate change as a critical element in our and across four commodities.
Western Australia iron ore and approach to risk management across our business.
Queensland Coal both increased annual production volume by more than 20 per cent as we delivered more tonnes from existing in everything we do, we are guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter infrastructure and growth projects ahead of schedule.
these results values of Sustainability, integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity were supported by our onshore uS petroleum asset delivering and Accountability.
these are the foundation of who we are, and a 73 per cent increase in petroleum liquids production.
how we perform our role as an active and engaged corporate citizen.
i am honoured to be part of a company where we live our safety performance improves through our continued focus our values every day.
on accelerating sustainable improvements in productivity by finding more efficient and effective ways of performing day-to-day Finally, i would like to thank all our suppliers, customers, host operations.
We delivered more than uS$6.6 billion of sustainable communities and shareholders for their continued support over productivity-led gains over the last two years.
there are more the past year as we strive to be a valued partner of choice.
i would achievements in productivity still to come as our teams continue especially like to thank our employees and contractors whose to innovate and learn from each other, replicating best practice and commitment and contribution is the cornerstone of the success operating on a common data platform across the organisation.
We continue to invest selectively in those projects that meet our demanding criteria.
in FY2014, we reduced our share of exploration and capital expenditure by 32 per cent to uS$15.2 billion and expect this to decline to uS$14.8 billion in FY2015.
this approach has Andrew Mackenzie increased internal competition for capital, improved our capital Chief executive officer efficiency and provides for long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton on A Annu nnuA Al l R Re eP Po oR Rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 9 9 1 Strategic report continued 1.5 Our strategy and business model 1.5.
1 Our consistent strategy Our purpose Our values our corporate purpose is to create long-term shareholder value in pursuing our strategy through all stages of the economic and through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing commodity cycles, we are guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter values of natural resources.
of Sustainability, integrity, respect, Performance, Simplicity and accountability.
Our strategy our overriding commitment is to ensuring the safety of our people, our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, and respecting our environment and the communities in which expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography we work.
this commitment informs everything we do and influences and market.
our unique position in the resources industry is due to our proven operational capability is fundamental to our strategy.
it is reflected and consistent strategy.
in line with our strategy, we pursue growth in Our Charter, in particular our values of Performance achieving opportunities consistent with our core skills of: superior business results by stretching our capabilities, and evaluating, developing and extracting resources in our Businesses: Simplicity focusing our efforts on the things that matter most.
distributing and selling our products, and managing financial risk associated with our revenue through Marketing: Our success factors defining and governing world-class functional standards, which We are successful when: are implemented Group-wide through our Group Functions.
our people start each day with a sense of purpose and end the day with a sense of accomplishment: We operate in a dynamic external environment and this strategy our communities, customers and suppliers value their relationships has delivered strong company performance over time which, with us: in turn, underpins the creation of long-term sustainable value for our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities our asset portfolio is world-class and sustainably developed: in which we operate.
We aim to deliver long-term sustainable our operational discipline and financial strength enables our value rather than focusing on short-term returns.
future growth: and our shareholders receive a superior return on their investment.
our key performance indicators presented in section 1.10 of this annual report enable our Group Management Committee GMC to measure our performance.
10 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.5.
2 Our business model Extraction, processing Exploration and evaluation Development Marketing and logistics and transportation Exploration and evaluation Extraction, processing and transportation Discovery through brownfield and greenfield exploration.
Extracting conventional and unconventional oil and gas.
over the past six years, brownfield exploration has increased our across our global operations, the diversification of our portfolio reserve base around our portfolio of existing assets in large resource of assets by commodity, geography and market continues to be basins, which now provide us with significant growth opportunities.
one of our differentiating features.
our goal is to safely operate this has allowed us to reduce brownfield exploration expenditure all our assets at capacity through mining, extracting, processing and rationalise our greenfield exploration program to focus on copper and transporting commodities.
in Chile and Peru and conventional oil and gas, predominantly offshore We continue to set production records at a number of assets.
in the Gulf of Mexico and Western australia.
through the development and use of standard operating practices We evaluate the results of our brownfield and greenfield exploration and technology, we are driving efficiencies through improved to identify future growth projects consistent with our strategy to own capital intensity, labour productivity and increased utilisation and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets.
We also continually evaluate our portfolio and consider divestment our extraction and processing activities are mindful of our ongoing and acquisition opportunities.
sustainability obligations, including rehabilitation at the end of the asset life.
Development Marketing and logistics Evaluating and developing projects.
BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue line and is responsible for: the evaluation and development of large-scale resource projects Selling the Groups products and purchasing all major raw materials.
generates significant value for BHP Billiton.
We have a number Supporting the Businesses to maximise the value of of high-quality growth projects currently under development.
have a large number of growth opportunities in our project pipeline in varying stages of evaluation.
Managing the supply chain to customers.
Achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products.
in our development process, these projects progress through feasibility Developing the Group-wide view of the markets and to execution only after external approvals.
our rigorous internal review future pricing.
process requires projects to pass through various tollgates for internal approvals at each stage, including Board approval for major projects.
the primary hub for our marketing activities is Singapore, while our marketing of oil and gas is headquartered in Houston, united States.
Potential expansion projects must compete for capital in BHP Billiton in addition, we have marketers located close to our customers in and are only approved if they meet our strict criteria for investment.
Marketings responsibilities require an active presence in the various commodities markets, the global freight market and the crude and gas pipeline transportation market, through which we manage the supply chain for our products and develop strong integrated relationships between our Businesses and our customers.
our market insight is strengthened by the multi-commodity nature of our organisation, our proximity to our customers and the flow of information in our centralised marketing structure.
a description of our risk factors, including those that impact our business model, and our approach to risk management are presented in section 1.7 of this annual report.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 11 11 1 Strategic report continued 1.5.
3 External factors and trends Economic outlook Climate change the global economy grew at a moderate rate in FY2014.
Momentum the physical impacts of climate change on our operations are in the united States, Japan and the united Kingdom was underpinned uncertain and particular to geographic circumstances.
in addition, by central bank monetary policy.
europes economy improved a number of national governments have already introduced marginally, although the recovery was constrained by high levels or are contemplating the introduction of regulatory responses of unemployment.
emerging markets, including China, experienced to greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels a moderate slowdown.
to address the impacts of climate change.
these physical effects and regulatory responses may adversely impact the productivity in a relative sense, the Chinese economy continues to grow strongly and financial performance of our operations.
with signs that it is rebalancing.
Consumption continued to be supported by higher household incomes while fixed asset investment Other external factors and trends softened, led by the property sector, as the central bank restricted a number of external factors and trends have had and may continue access to credit.
rapid credit growth in the non-bank financial sector to have a material impact on our financial condition and results remained an important concern for policy makers.
of operations, as described in section 1.15.1 of this annual report.
these factors include commodity prices, exchange rates, changes We remain confident in the short-term to medium-term outlook for in product demand and supply, and operating costs.
Measured stimulus recently introduced by the government demonstrates their commitment to maintain economic the chart below presents the price movements in our core growth above seven per cent.
We believe consumption and services Business commodities over the past 10 years.
over this period will continue to increase in importance, while the markets role we have benefited from generally rising commodity prices while in allocating capital will be enhanced.
Greater transparency within our diversified portfolio provides resilience to decreases in the the fiscal system is also expected to reshape the relationship between price of some commodities.
the underlying performance of the uS economy continued to Commodity prices 20052014 improve despite the significant disruption caused by severe weather Iron ore, Metallurgical coal, in the March 2014 quarter.
the curtailment of quantitative easing Energy coal, Crude oil Copper, Gas appears to have had a limited impact on sentiment as a solid increase US$ unit US$ unit in demand reflects a stronger labour market, rising disposable 300 18 incomes, and higher equities and housing prices.
Business investment has been a weak link in the recovery so far as companies have 250 15 responded slowly to better economic conditions, despite higher levels of profitability.
an increase in capital spending by the global 200 12 business community will be required to sustain the recovery in the medium term.
150 9 the Japanese economy has responded strongly to expansionary monetary and fiscal policy over the past year.
investment spending and wages increased as corporate profits benefited from the 100 6 depreciation of the Yen, while an increase in the national sales tax in april had a limited impact on consumption.
these factors have 50 3 increased the potential for faster growth in the short term, although a longer-term, sustainable recovery will be contingent on the scale 0 0 and speed of structural reform.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 With regard to the global economy, stronger uS growth and an Iron ore Metallurgical coal Gas Energy coal Crude oil Copper associated tightening of monetary policy could result in the rapid outflow of capital from emerging economies.
However, developing a summary of the pricing trends for our most significant commodities nations with sound macroeconomic fundamentals would be less for FY2014 is presented in section 1.15.1 of this annual report.
likely to experience a severe impact from this transition.
4 Corporate planning at BHP Billiton, we have a long-standing and robust corporate Corporate planning framework planning process, which is central to the effective development an annual Board strategic planning review is the start of each and delivery of our strategy.
corporate planning cycle, where the GMC and the Board actively discuss the Groups strategy.
a key outcome is the Ceo Message our planning process continuously reviews our strategy against to all employees which sets the long-term direction of the Group a constantly changing external environment and the risks and and aligns expectations.
opportunities this presents, to optimise both our returns to our shareholders, and our broader contribution to society.
the Directional Planning long-term strategic planning phase begins with the Ceo Message and the issuing of long-term Core principles scenarios.
Businesses use the Ceo Message and scenarios the corporate planning process is designed with the following to prepare their Directional Plans, which include life of asset core principles: resource plans.
Plans are discussed with the GMC at the Board and GMC ownership and regular review of strategy and Business Directional appraisals.
We prepare a Group-wide 20-year Plan which includes input from Clear accountabilities regular engagement through appraisals the Businesses Directional Plans.
a total annual capital allocation by the GMC with the Businesses, Marketing and Group Functions.
limit is set to maximise total shareholder returns, while ensuring alignment consistent and integrated Business, Marketing and financial risks are appropriately mitigated.
Within this capital ceiling, Group Functions planning process with individual plans aggregated major growth options are optimally sequenced over the 20-year Plan to form the overall corporate plan.
through our capital allocation process.
long to short long-term strategic plans are followed by the capital allocation process includes analysis of net present value short-term delivery plans.
nPV, internal rates of return irr, return on capital roC and robustness our plan should be resilient under both a range margin analysis to inform decision-making.
this process is further of long-term scenarios and short-term shock events.
all available growth 12 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report M A C R O G I R N S n o i t a c o l l 1.5.
4 Corporate planning continued the flowchart below illustrates our corporate planning framework.
CEO Message Board Strategic Planning 20 years Business Directional Plans and Appraisal Refreshed annually Maximise shareholder returns CEO Letter of Intent Business Delivery Appraisals 5-year Plans and 2-year Budget options are assessed and prioritised to generate a high-value and business environments.
a description of the key characteristics capital-efficient portfolio which provides flexibility to return excess of each of our scenarios is summarised below: cash to shareholders.
the increased competition for capital has Good global growth underpinned by significant technological improved our capital productivity.
Climate change science and need to act is acknowledged globally, resulting in global cooperation the Delivery Planning short-term to mid-term planning phase to mitigate carbon emissions and consumer pull for green begins with the Ceo letter of intent which provides capital guidance products and services.
and sets the context for the Business five-year plans and two-year Strong global growth, liberal trade flows, significant investment budgets.
again, plans are discussed with the GMC, this time at in research and technology underpinned by high gross domestic the Business Delivery appraisals.
product GDP, and a coordinated response to addressing We believe that the rigour of our corporate planning process, climate change.
combined with the flexibility it provides the Group to quickly Solid economic growth, potential new supply from key resource respond to an inherently dynamic external environment, basins failing to meet expectations, climate change remains a is essential to maximise total shareholder returns.
secondary issue with research focused on adaptive technology Scenarios to address greater pollution, and renewable energy technologies progressing above expectations.
the corporate planning process is underpinned by scenarios that encompass a wide spectrum of potential outcomes for key global a future state enmeshed in stagnation and protectionism, uncertainties driven by factors external to BHP Billiton.
Designed regional conflicts abound, domestic resources are prioritised to interpret technical, economic, political and global governance for consumption even if sub-economic, low investment in trends facing the resources industry, the scenarios offer a means research and development, and climate change commitments by which to explore potential portfolio discontinuities and are abandoned in favour of adaptation.
opportunities, as well as to test the robustness of decisions.
alongside scenarios, associated signposts trends and triggers it should be noted that the scenarios do not constitute preferred events allow early awareness for the potential advent of a scenario, outcomes for BHP Billiton.
the Companys approach to critical global offering a powerful decision-making tool.
For example, rising GDP challenges, such as the importance of addressing climate change, per capita in key commodity importing countries is a signpost to an continues to be based on Our Charter values, including our value earlier shift to consumption driven economies.
another example of a of Sustainability.
our position on climate change is discussed further potential trigger is if an accord on climate change were to be ratified in section 1.6.
1. during the 2015 united nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties, and then enacted globally.
the starting point of our scenario development is the construction of a Central Case, built through an in-depth, bottom up analysis We believe that our uniquely diversified portfolio is robust, both using rigorous processes, benchmarked with external views, across these scenarios, and also shorter-term shock events.
thoroughly reviewed and endorsed annually by the GMC and the as an example, in a severely carbon constrained world, we believe Board.
Currently our Central Case considers expected levels of uS there is significant upside for our potash and uranium commodities, economic recovery, progressive development of China and india, and also for our high-quality hard coking coal lower smelting integration of developing economies into a multi-polar economic emissions and iron ore lump product direct blast furnace feed, environment, as well as action on climate change centred on while copper is resilient.
in aggregate these mitigate potential national policies with short-term prioritisation to adaptation negative impacts in other commodities, given the relatively short and a long-term shift to mitigation.
pay-back periods for most present and future investments in fossil fuel production.
Conversely, our portfolio allows us to capture the scenarios are designed to be divergent, but also plausible upsides in an environment where developing countries experience and internally consistent, spanning different potential future strong global growth.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 13 13 a l a t i p a C I R V R P N 1 Strategic report continued 1.6 Strategic priorities Our Group Management Committee GMC maintains a strong focus on the following strategic priorities in order to execute the Companys strategy.
A number of these priorities are monitored by the GMC using the key performance indicators as presented in section 1.10 of this Annual Report.
1 Continue to operate sustainably We will continue to operate sustainably with our focus on the We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit calculated following areas: on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit in community programs that aim to have a long-lasting, positive Protect our people and improve the health and safety impact on peoples quality of life.
this includes implementing new of our operations and supporting existing community projects.
During FY2014, our the health, safety and wellbeing of our people are central to voluntary community investment totalled uS$241.7 million, comprising the success of our organisation.
regardless of where our people uS$141.7 million in cash, in-kind support and administrative costs, are located or the type of work they undertake, we strive to and a uS$100 million contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
create a working environment that is free from occupational illness or injury.
identifying and managing material risk is a critical Strategic approach to climate change component of our management approach.
By understanding and as energy demand continues to increase, the global challenge managing our risks, we provide greater protection for our people, of climate change remains a priority for our organisation.
We are communities and assets.
taking action by focusing on reducing our emissions, increasing our preparedness for physical climate impacts and working with others, Support sustainable development of our host communities including industry and governments, to support effective responses We are a global company that values our host communities.
our approach to investment decision-making We strive to be part of the communities in which we operate and and portfolio management and the diversity of our overall portfolio through all our interactions seek to foster meaningful long-term positions us not only to manage and respond to change, but also relationships, which respect local cultures and create lasting to capture opportunities to grow shareholder value over time.
our contribution to our host communities is broad ranging.
Further information on our sustainability commitments, standards and through employment, taxes and royalties, we support local, regional performance can be found in section 1.14 of this Annual Report and national economies.
We purchase local goods and services and develop infrastructure that benefits entire communities.
additional information is also available in the Sustainability report 2014, which can be found online at Our position on climate change We accept the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCCs assessment of climate change science which has found that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
We believe that: the world must pursue the twin objective of: limiting climate change to the lower end of the iPCC emission scenarios in line with current international agreements: while providing access to the affordable energy required to continue the economic growth essential for maintaining living standards and alleviating poverty.
under all current plausible scenarios, fossil fuels will continue to be a significant part of the energy mix for decades.
there needs to be an acceleration of effort to drive energy efficiency, develop and deploy low-emissions technology and adapt to the impacts of climate change.
there should be a price on carbon, implemented in a way that addresses competitiveness concerns and achieves lowest cost emissions reductions.
We will: continue to take action to reduce our emissions: build resilience of our operations, investments, communities and ecosystems to climate change impacts: recognising their role as policy makers, seek to enhance the global response by engaging with governments: work in partnership with resource sector peers to improve sectoral performance and increase industrys influence in policy development to deliver effective long-term regulatory responses: through material investments in low-emission technology, contribute to reducing emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
14 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.6.
2 Creating a more productive organisation We are focused on achieving sustainable improvement in productivity Following the october 2013 completion of our deployment of across all aspects of our business.
We believe our systems, structures, 1SaP, our single Group-wide common enterprise resource planning culture, people and portfolio should enable the creation of a system, we are now using common world-class business processes, competitive advantage by working smarter to safely deliver greater standard metrics and reports that are supported by robust data.
volume growth from existing plant and equipment at lower unit costs.
the implementation of 1SaP across the organisation supports our ability to pursue sustained improvement through the application During the past year, we have continued to implement and embed of standard processes and performance transparency.
our operating Model, which guides how we work, defines how we are organised and enables the measurement of operational and our long-term commitment to improve productivity across the financial performance across the Group.
the operating Model lays organisation has the potential to create significant value for the foundation for sustainable productivity gains by supporting shareholders and other stakeholders.
our focus on productivity the building of capability, eliminating the duplication of effort and has already resulted in significant improvement in operating enabling the rapid identification and deployment of best practices.
performance at each of our major Businesses this year, with a nine per cent increase in Group production on a copper equivalent recognising that culture also drives performance, BHP Billiton is basis and record output at 12 operations.
During FY2014, we continuing to create an inclusive environment where every employee delivered uS$2.9 billion of benefits attributable to productivity feels engaged.
We want our people to feel listened to, be motivated initiatives.
this means we have now delivered more than to contribute to their potential and work together to unlock uS$6.6 billion of benefits attributable to productivity initiatives world-class productivity from the ground up.
We support the over the last two years.
development of our people and encourage our teams to learn from each other, identify more productive ways of working and achieve functional excellence across the Group.
Case study: Cost and time reductions in Petroleums Onshore US shale drilling and completions In FY2014, rig mobilisation times have been cut by 12 per cent and overall drilling costs per well have decreased by 15 per cent.
Objective: To reduce the time and cost of each well : operations changes in how The average drilling time for a shale required to put each well online.
operations are conducted in the field : gas well has declined in FY2014, while and supply shifts in what and how goods the productivity of hydraulic fracturing Approach: Opportunities were identified and services are procured and delivered.
crews stages completed per crew per through statistical analysis and month has grown in FY2014.
comparison against internal best practice Outcomes: Rig mobilisation times have and external benchmarks.
Improvements been cut by 12 per cent in FY2014 through Productivity results: Overall, total in performance were sought in three the development and implementation Onshore US shale drilling costs per well areas: engineering changes in the design of an optimised rig move procedure.
decreased by 15 per cent in FY2014.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 15 15 M A C R O G I R N S n o i t a c o l l 1 Strategic report continued 1.6.
3 Disciplined approach to capital management our priorities for capital management remain unchanged.
the quality the following factors are considered when making capital of our assets and adherence to our strategy has differentiated our allocation decisions: performance and maximised shareholder returns by allocating A strong balance sheet capital in a disciplined manner.
our solid a credit rating provides flexibility and access to debt our diversified and high-margin portfolio delivers a higher return capital markets.
the Groups balance sheet continued to strengthen on capital with lower volatility, when compared with many peers.
as at 30 June 2014, net debt was uS$25.8 billion, over the last 10 years, we have returned uS$64 billion to shareholders a decrease of uS$1.7 billion compared to the net debt position in the form of dividends and buy-backs.
at 30 June 2013. as at 30 June 2014, the Groups cash and cash equivalents on hand were uS$8.8 billion.
Many of the areas to which we direct our cash flow are interconnected.
in order to make capital allocation decisions During FY2014, the Group issued a four tranche Global Bond we test each decision against a range of short-term and long-term totalling uS$5 billion comprising uS$500 million Senior Floating criteria across several scenarios.
We aim to optimise for net present notes due 2016 paying interest at three-month uS dollar liBor value nPV, return on capital roC, internal rate of return irr plus 25 basis points, uS$500 million 2.050 per cent Senior notes and margin, while remaining mindful of portfolio construction and due 2018, uS$1.5 billion, 3.850 per cent Senior notes due 2023, cash flow at risk.
no single metric can dominate the process given and uS$2.5 billion 5.000 per cent Senior notes due 2043. the potential to create imbalances and all alternatives, including these funds and our balance sheet capacity were used to meet an investment in our own shares, actively compete.
a series of financing commitments, including debt repayments our portfolio remains a key point of difference.
However, because of uS$7.2 billion and dividend payments of uS$6.4 billion.
it is opportunity-rich, capital discipline is more important.
By reducing Progressive base dividend annual expenditure, we have created even more competition for BHP Billiton has a progressive dividend policy.
the aim of this capital and we have sharpened our focus on our core commodities policy is to steadily increase or at least maintain our base dividend and our high-margin major basins.
in uS dollars at each half-yearly payment.
our progressive base Given our portfolio of long-life orebodies, we also consider the dividend is the minimum annual distribution that a shareholder value of future options as we must preserve their value at low cost.
should expect and is expected to grow broadly in accordance with the growth of our business.
our approach to capital management is illustrated in the diagram below.
on 19 august 2014, the Board determined a final dividend for the year of 62 uS cents per share.
together with the interim dividend of 59 uS cents per share paid to shareholders on 26 March 2014, this brought the total dividend determined for the year to 121 uS cents per share, a 4.3 per cent increase over the previous years full-year dividend of 116 uS cents per share.
Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 Dividends determined in respect of the period US cents per share interim dividend 59.0 57.0 55.0 Maximise shareholder Final dividend 62.0 59.0 57.0 returns 121.0 116.0 112.0 16 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 a l a t i p a C I R V R P N 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.6.
3 Disciplined approach to capital management continued Internal competition for capital investment Capital expenditure encompasses expenditure on major projects, as set out in section 2.4 of this annual report, and capital By reducing annual capital expenditure and increasing competition expenditure on sustaining and other items.
for capital within the Group, we have prioritised higher quality growth at a higher average rate of return on incremental investment.
We 2014 2013 2012 continue to invest selectively in those projects that meet our criteria.
Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M During FY2014, eight projects were completed, including: Capital expenditure Macedon Petroleum, which delivered first petroleum production Growth 13,130 18,678 14,994 in the September 2013 quarter.
our share of development costs Sustaining and other 2,863 3,565 3,643 was approximately uS$1.2 billion.
north West Shelf north rankin B Gas Compression Petroleum, Total 15,993 22,243 18,637 which delivered first gas production in the December 2013 quarter.
Exploration expenditure our share of development costs was approximately uS$721 million Petroleum 600 675 1,355 as of 30 June 2014.
Minerals 410 676 1,138 Jimblebar mine expansion iron ore, which delivered first iron ore production in the September 2013 quarter.
our share Total 1,010 1,351 2,493 of development costs was approximately uS$3.4 billion.
Total capital and exploration Port blending facilities and rail yard iron ore, which was expenditure cash basis 17,003 23,594 21,130 completed in the December 2013 quarter.
the project was delivered at a cost of uS$1.1 billion BHP Billiton share add: equity accounted investments 871 1,493 1,164 uS$916 million.
less: capitalised deferred stripping 1,421 1,650 1,531 Samarco fourth pellet plant iron ore, which delivered first iron less: non-controlling interests 1,272 1,146 970 ore pellet production in the March 2014 quarter.
the final spend Total capital and exploration of the project was uS$3.2 billion BHP Billiton share uS$1.6 billion.
expenditure BHP Billiton share 15,181 22,291 19,793 Caval ridge Coal, which delivered first metallurgical coal production in the June 2014 quarter.
BHP Billitons share of the BHP Billitons share of capital and exploration expenditure declined projects cost was uS$1.9 billion.
by 32 per cent during FY2014 to uS$15.2 billion.
our rate of investment eight major projects were in execution at 30 June 2014.
Seven of our is expected to decline further in FY2015 with planned capital development projects are brownfield in nature, which are inherently and exploration expenditure of approximately uS$14.8 billion lower risk than new greenfield projects.
A detailed discussion of our project pipeline including projects approved Capital expenditure after 30 June 2014 is located in section 2.4 of this Annual Report Capital and exploration expenditure is disclosed for each Business in the table below.
Returning excess capital to shareholders During the last 10 years, we supplemented our progressive base 2014 2013 2012 dividend by returning excess capital to shareholders and returned Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M uS$23 billion in the form of buy-backs, which is almost 35 per cent 1 Capital and exploration expenditure of total capital returned.
Petroleum and Potash 7,070 8,439 7,063 We have now returned uS$64 billion in the form of dividends and Copper 3,873 4,204 3,889 buy-backs over the last 10 years, equivalent to an underlying payout iron ore 3,118 6,196 4,745 ratio of approximately 50 per cent.
Coal 2,379 3,665 3,277 We continue to focus on the things we can control to maximise aluminium, Manganese and nickel 542 950 2,020 free cash flow, like productivity and the rate at which we invest.
Group and unallocated items 21 140 136 the pace at which our balance sheet strengthens, however, will also depend on external factors like prices and foreign exchange BHP Billiton Group 17,003 23,594 21,130 rates.
We monitor this closely and seek to return excess cash consistently and predictably.
1 Capital expenditure is presented on a cash basis and excludes capitalised interest, but includes capitalised exploration.
exploration expenditure is capitalised in accordance with our accounting policies, as set out in note 1 accounting policies in the Financial Statements.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 17 17 1 Strategic report continued 1.6.
4 Active management of our portfolio We are concentrating our efforts on those basins where we enjoy economies of scale and a competitive advantage.
our focus on four major Businesses of iron ore, Petroleum, Copper, and Coal, with Potash as a potential fifth, provides the benefits of diversification.
Proposed demerger of assets on 19 august 2014, we announced a plan to create an independent global metals and mining company based on a selection of our high-quality aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel and silver assets.
as a result of the growth of our major Businesses and the Groups substantial investment in recent years, BHP Billiton now has two great companies embedded within its portfolio.
Separating these assets via a demerger has the potential to unlock shareholder value by significantly simplifying the Group.
1 BHP Billiton portfolio FY2005 Core BHP Billiton and new company portfolios FY2014 Underlying EBITDA FY2005 Underlying EBITDA Iron Ore Petroleum & Potash Copper Petroleum Copper Iron Ore BHP Billiton Coal post demerger Manganese Coal Nickel New company Silver Aluminium Manganese Nickel Coal Aluminium FY2005 revenue FY2014 revenue Note: Bubble size represents average analyst NPV in 2005 Note: Bubble size represents average analyst NPV based on a sample size of up to seven analysts.
in 2014 based on a sample size of up to 16 analysts.
1 BHP Billitons continued diversification core portfolio, % contribution if the demerger is approved, we would focus almost exclusively 100% ROW on our large, long-life iron ore, copper, coal, petroleum and potash Australia Coal basins.
By concentrating on the development and operation North America Europe of these basins, BHP Billiton expects to reduce costs and improve productivity more quickly.
North America 75% Petroleum Following the demerger, BHP Billiton would have a simpler portfolio South America with fewer assets and a greater focus on upstream operations.
Other Asia Energy Coal BHP Billiton would remain: Copper India 50% the largest exporter of metallurgical coal: Japan a global top three producer of iron ore: Alumina a global top four exporter of copper concentrate: Australia 25% the largest overseas investor in onshore uS shale: Iron Ore China the developer of the worlds best undeveloped potash resource Aluminium in Saskatchewan, Canada.
1 Consistent with our established strategy, our Core Portfolio 0% Revenue by Revenue by Revenue by provides broad exposure to steelmaking raw materials, copper, 2 2 3 commodity geography market energy and potentially agricultural markets and will remain diversified by commodity, geography and market.
Our Charter values and commitment to putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible and supporting the communities in which we operate will remain unchanged.
We will continue to simplify our portfolio and as part of this process are reviewing our nickel West, new Mexico Coal and smaller petroleum assets.
1 Core assets include: Western australia iron ore, Samarco, Queensland Coal, nSW energy Coal, Cerrejn, escondida, olympic Dam, Pampa norte, antamina, onshore uS, Shenzi, Mad Dog, atlantis, angostura, north West Shelf, Bass Strait, Pyrenees, Macedon and Jansen Project.
2 FY2014 revenue excluding third party trading activities.
3 revenue by market represents location of customer.
18 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report New company position on the cash cost curve, CY2013 Alumina 2 Silver 1 Metallurgical coal Aluminium Nickel 4 Manganese 1.6.
4 Active management of our portfolio continued 3 Energy coal New company position on the cash cost curve, CY2013 Alumina 2 Silver 1 Metallurgical coal Aluminium Smallest producer Largest producer Nickel 4 Manganese Production rank company production rank, CY2013 3 Energy coal Source: Wood Mackenzie, AME, CRU, BHP Billiton for EBITDA only.
Note: Bubble size represents FY2014 Underlying EBITDA.
1 Metallurgical coal Illawarra shown on margin curve position to account for coal quality differentials.
2 Silver cost position based on mining cost by commodity rather than by-product credits.
3 Energy coal export tonnage rank and cash cost curve position for the export thermal coal market.
4 Manganese revenue and Underlying EBITDA is included on a proportional consolidation 60 per cent interest basis.
Statutory reporting has historically been on a full consolidation basis.
Smallest producer Largest producer Production rank company production rank, CY2013 Source: Wood Mackenzie, AME, CRU, BHP Billiton for EBITDA only.
1 Metallurgical coal Illawarra shown on margin curve position to account A new global metals and mining company BHP Billiton shareholders for coal quality differentials.
2 Silver cost position based on mining cost by commodity rather than the new company would have assets in five countries.
Many of BHP Billiton limited and Plc shareholders would be entitled to by-product credits.
its operations are among the most competitive in their industries 100 per cent of the shares in the new listed company through 3 Energy coal export tonnage rank and cash cost curve position for the export and in FY2014 its portfolio would have generated revenues a pro rata, in-specie distribution, as well as retaining their thermal coal market.
4 Manganese revenue and Underlying EBITDA is included on a proportional of nearly uS$10 billion.
its assets would include: existing shares in the Group.
consolidation 60 per cent interest basis.
Statutory reporting has historically BHP Billitons integrated aluminium business: been on a full consolidation basis.
Subject to final Board approval to proceed, shareholder approval Cannington silver: and the receipt of satisfactory third party approvals, the demerger is energy Coal South africa: expected to be completed in the first half of the 2015 calendar year.
illawarra metallurgical coal: Cerro Matoso nickel: additional information on the proposed demerger of assets is available BHP Billitons Manganese business.
online at the new companys portfolio of assets is positioned in the first or second quartile of industry cost curves.
Targeted divestment program By tailoring its approach, and retaining some elements of We also continue to execute a targeted divestment program, BHP Billitons common systems and processes, the new company with major transactions totalling uS$6.7 billion completed since would be designed to operate safely, reduce overheads and deliver FY2013.
the transactions completed during FY2014 included: improved performance.
the sale of the Pinto Valley mining operation and the associated Management, board and listings San Manuel arizona railroad Company to Capstone Mining Corp it is proposed that the Chairman of the new company would for an aggregate cash consideration of uS$653 million: be David Crawford, who will retire from the BHP Billiton Board the sale of our interest in our onshore uS South Midland shale in november 2014.
Graham Kerr, BHP Billitons Chief Financial operation, located in the Permian Basin, to eP energy for a cash officer, would assume the role of Chief executive officer of the consideration of uS$153 million: new company, based in Perth.
it is intended that Keith rumble the sale of liverpool Bay, comprising a 46.1 per cent interest will become a non-executive Director of the new company that in five producing offshore oil and gas fields in the irish Sea, BHP Billiton plans to form in the proposed demerger.
Mr rumble united Kingdom and the Point of ayr onshore processing plant would retire from the BHP Billiton Board at the time the shareholders in northern Wales and associated infrastructure.
the sale was vote on this demerger proposal.
the BHP Billiton Board also intends completed on 31 March 2014 to eni ulX limited for a cash to nominate Xolani Mkhwanazi, currently BHP Billitons Chairman consideration of uS$29 million: and South africa, as a non-executive Director of the new company.
the extension of our Western australia iron ore long-term joint the importance of South africa to the new company would be venture relationship with itoCHu and Mitsui to include Jimblebar, reflected in the formation of its board and management team, following the issuing of equity on 10 July 2013 in a subsidiary as well as its commitment to the countrys economic development company, for which BHP Billiton received a total consideration and transformation objectives.
of uS$1.5 billion in shares and loans of the subsidiary.
the new company is intended to be listed on the australian Securities exchange aSX with an inward secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock exchange JSe.
A responsible operator the new company would be committed to responsible environmental management, the safe operation of its assets and to making a positive contribution to its host communities and nations.
BHP Billitons existing community commitments will be fulfilled, while the new company would foster its own partnerships and establish its own community programs.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 19 19 Highest cost Lowest cost Highest cost Lowest cost 1 Strategic report continued 1.7 Our management of risk these include: 1.7.
1 Approach to risk management the potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate We believe the identification and management of risk is central purpose and business plans is identified through risk assessments to achieving our corporate purpose of creating long-term using approved materiality and tolerability criteria.
of any risk event is assessed according to a matrix that describes risk can present itself in many forms, has the potential to impact the degree of harm, injury or loss from the most severe impact our health and safety, environment, community, reputation, associated with that risk event, assuming reasonable effectiveness regulatory, market and financial performance and thereby the of controls.
achievement of our corporate purpose.
a risk assessment risk identification, risk analysis, including likelihood and impact assessment and risk evaluation is By understanding and managing risk, we provide greater certainty conducted for material risk issues.
and confidence for our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and for the communities in which we operate.
Successful risk controls are designed, implemented, operated and assessed risk management can be a source of competitive advantage.
to produce a residual risk that is tolerable.
Performance standards are established for critical controls over material risks with our risks are viewed and managed on a Group-wide basis.
the natural diversification in our portfolio of commodities, geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities is a key element We have established processes that apply when entering or in our risk management approach.
commencing new activities in high-risk countries.
risk assessments and a supporting risk management plan are required to ensure that risk management is embedded in our critical business activities, potential reputation, legal, business conduct and corruption-related functions and processes.
Materiality and our tolerance for risk exposures are managed and legislative compliance is maintained, are key considerations in our decision-making.
including relevant anti-corruption legislation and the application risk issues are identified, analysed and assessed in a consistent of any sanctions or trade embargoes.
Performance requirements exist for the identification, Our risk management governance approach is described assessment, control and monitoring of material risk issues that in sections 3.14.1 and 3.15 of this Annual Report could threaten our corporate purpose and business plans.
2 Risk factors We believe that because of the international scope of our operations and the industries in which we are engaged, there are numerous factors that may have an adverse effect on our results and operations.
the following describes the material risks that could affect BHP Billiton.
External risks Fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts of ongoing Our financial results may be negatively affected by currency global economic volatility may negatively affect our results, exchange rate fluctuations including cash flows and asset values our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide the prices we obtain for our oil, gas and minerals are determined variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the countries by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have historically in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those been subject to substantial volatility.
our usual policy is to sell currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results.
our products at the prevailing market prices.
the diversity provided the uS dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales by our relatively broad portfolio of commodities does not insulate are denominated.
operating costs are influenced by the currencies the effects of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can of those countries where our mines and processing plants are occur due to price shifts reflecting underlying global economic and located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported geopolitical factors, industry demand, increased supply due to the equipment and services are determined.
the australian dollar, development of new productive resources, technological change, South african rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real and uS dollar product substitution and national tariffs.
We are particularly and are some of the currencies influencing our operating costs.
exposed to price movements in iron ore, coal, copper, and oil and over recent years, higher exchange rates compared to the uS dollar gas.
For example, a uS$1 per tonne decline in the average iron of currencies in which the majority of our operating costs are ore price and uS$1 per barrel decline in the average oil price incurred have and may continue to adversely impact our profit would have an estimated impact on FY2014 profit after taxation margins.
Given the dominant role of the uS currency in our of uS$112 million and uS$54 million, respectively.
Volatility in affairs, the uS dollar is the currency in which we present financial global economic growth, particularly in the developing economies, performance.
We do not generally believe that active currency has the potential to adversely impact future demand and prices hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders.
the impact of potential long-term sustained to time, we consider currency protection measures appropriate in price shifts and short-term price volatility, including the effects specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict limits of unwinding the sustained monetary stimulus in the united States, established by our Board.
creates the risk that our financial and operating results including cash flows and asset values, will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
20 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued External risks continued Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results our operations are based on material long-term investments that are dependent on long-term fiscal stability and could be adversely the Chinese market has been driving global materials demand impacted by changes in fiscal legislation.
the natural resources and pricing over the past decade.
Sales into China generated industry continues to be regarded as a source of tax revenue uS$23.3 billion FY2013: uS$20.1 billion or 34.7 per cent FY2013: and can also be impacted by broader fiscal measures applying 30.4 per cent of our revenue in FY2014.
the FY2014 sales into China to business generally.
by Business included 64.9 per cent iron ore, 17.8 per cent Copper, 8.5 per cent Coal, 6.6 per cent aluminium, Manganese and nickel our business could be adversely affected by new government and 2.2 per cent Petroleum.
a slowing in Chinas economic growth regulations, such as controls on imports, exports, prices and could result in lower prices and less demand for our products and greenhouse gas emissions.
increasing requirements relating to negatively impact our results, including cash flows.
regulatory, environmental and social approvals can potentially result in significant delays in construction and may adversely affect the Actions by governments or political events in the countries in economics of new mining and oil and gas projects, the expansion which we operate could have a negative impact on our business of existing operations and results of our operations.
infrastructure, We have operations in many countries around the globe, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical to our business which have varying degrees of political and commercial stability.
We have operations or potential development projects We operate in emerging markets, which may involve additional in countries where government-provided infrastructure or regulatory risks that could have an adverse impact on the profitability regimes for access to infrastructure, including our own privately of an operation.
these risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, operated infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain or subject nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, to legislative change.
these may adversely impact the efficient leases, permits or other agreements, restrictions on repatriation operations and expansion of our Businesses.
of earnings or capital and changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
risks relating to bribery and corruption, We operate in several countries where ownership of land is including possible delays or disruption resulting from a refusal to uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
make so-called facilitation payments, may be prevalent in some in australia, the native title act 1993 provides for the establishment of the countries in which we operate.
if any of our major operations and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
are affected by one or more of these risks, it could have a negative in South africa, the extension of Security of tenure act 1997 effect on our operations in those countries, as well as the Groups and the restitution of land rights act 1994 provide for various overall operating results and financial condition.
Such legislation could negatively affect new or existing projects.
these regulations are complex, difficult to predict and outside our control and could negatively affect our Company, future results and our financial condition.
Business risks Failure to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves Potential changes to our portfolio of assets through or develop new operations could negatively affect our future acquisitions and divestments may have a material adverse results and financial condition effect on our future results and financial condition the demand for our products and production from our operations We regularly review the composition of our asset portfolio and results in existing reserves being depleted over time.
as our revenues from time to time may add assets to the portfolio or divest assets and profits are derived from our oil and gas and minerals operations, from the portfolio.
there are a number of risks associated with our results and financial condition are directly related to the success such acquisitions or divestments.
these include adverse market of our exploration and acquisition efforts, and our ability to generate reaction to such changes or the timing or terms on which such reserves to meet our production requirements.
exploration activity changes are made, the imposition of adverse regulatory conditions occurs adjacent to established operations and in new regions, and obligations, commercial objectives not being achieved as in developed and less-developed countries.
these activities may expected, unforeseen liabilities arising from such changes to increase land tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
the portfolio, sales revenues and operational performance not a failure in our ability to discover or acquire new resources, maintain meeting our expectations, anticipated synergies or cost savings reserves or develop new operations in sufficient quantities to being delayed or not being achieved, inability to retain key maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively staff and transaction-related costs being more than anticipated.
affect our results, financial condition and prospects.
these factors could negatively affect our reputation, future results and financial condition.
Future deterioration in commodities pricing may make some existing reserves uneconomic.
our actual drilling activities and Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely affect future drilling budget will depend on our mineral inventory our development projects size and quality, drilling results, commodity prices, drilling and although we devote significant time and resources to our project production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, planning, approval and review process, many of our development lease expirations, transportation pipelines and other infrastructure projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors.
our control, which may cause us to underestimate the cost or time required to complete a project.
For instance, accidents there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral during development projects may cause setbacks or cost overruns, and oil and gas reserves.
Geological assumptions about our required licences, permits or authorisations to build a project mineralisation that are valid at the time of estimation may may be unobtainable at anticipated costs, or may be obtained change significantly when new information becomes available.
only after significant delay and market conditions may change estimates that the indicated amount of reserves will be recovered making a project less profitable than initially projected.
or that it will be recovered at the cost we anticipate are based on uncertain assumptions.
the uncertain global financial outlook in addition, we may fail to manage projects as effectively as we may affect economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
reserve restatements could any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule negatively affect our results and prospects.
delays at our development projects, adversely affecting our development projects and impacting anticipated financial returns.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 21 21 1 Strategic report continued 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Financial risks If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly it could The commercial counterparties we transact with may not meet adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs their obligations, which may negatively impact our results We seek to maintain a solid a credit rating as part of our strategy.
We contract with a large number of commercial and financial However, fluctuations in commodity prices and the ongoing global counterparties, including end-customers, suppliers and financial economic volatility may adversely impact our future cash flows institutions.
Global economic volatility continues to strain global and ability to access capital from financial markets at acceptable financial markets, with tighter liquidity in China and uncertain pricing.
if our key financial ratios and credit rating are not business conditions generally.
We maintain a one book approach maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate costs with commercial counterparties to ensure all credit exposures are on borrowed debt, future access to financial capital markets quantified.
our existing counterparty credit controls may not prevent and the ability to fund current and future major capital programs a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer or could be adversely affected.
in addition, customers, suppliers, contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against existing We may not recover our investments in mining, oil and gas contracts and obligations.
non-supply of key inputs, such as tyres, assets, which may require financial write-downs mining and mobile equipment, diesel and other key consumables, one or more of our assets may be impacted by changed market may unfavourably impact costs and production at our operations.
or industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating these factors could negatively affect our financial condition and difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves results of operations.
and increased operating cost levels.
these may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our investment in mining and oil and gas assets and may require financial write-downs, including goodwill adversely impacting our financial results.
Operational risks Cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively environmental pollution and mechanical critical equipment impact our operating margins and expansion plans failures.
our operations may also be subject to unexpected natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes, flood, hurricanes and tsunamis.
Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources our northwest Western australia iron ore, Queensland coal and industry.
as the prices for our products are determined by the global Gulf of Mexico oil and gas operations are located in areas subject commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally have to cyclones or hurricanes.
our Chilean copper operations are the ability to offset these cost pressures through corresponding located in a known earthquake and tsunami zone.
Based on our risk price increases, which can adversely affect our operating margins.
management and concerns about the value of external insurance notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs and a number of key in the natural resource sector, our risk financing insurance cost inputs being commodity price-linked, the inability to reduce approach is to minimise or not to purchase external insurance costs and a timing lag may adversely impact our operating margins for certain risks, including property damage, business interruption, for an extended period.
construction-related risk, marine cargo and primary liability risks.
a number of our operations, such as aluminium and copper, are existing business continuity plans may not provide protection for energy or water intensive and, as a result, the Groups costs and all of the costs that arise from such events.
the impact of these earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply events could lead to disruptions in production, increased costs interruptions.
these could include the unavailability of energy, and loss of facilities more than offsetting external premiums fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations saved, which would adversely affect our financial results and in climate, significant increases in costs, inadequate infrastructure prospects.
Where external insurance is purchased, third party capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure claims arising from these events may exceed the limit of liability or other causes and the inability to extend supply contracts of the insurance policies we have in place.
Our non-operated assets may not comply with our standards our australian-based operations may continue to be affected Some of our assets are operated and managed by joint venture by the australian Fair Work act 2009 as labour agreements expire partners or by other companies.
Management of our non-operated and Businesses are required to collectively bargain with unions.
assets may not comply with our management and operating in some instances, labour unions are pursuing wage claims in standards, controls and procedures, including our health, safety, the bargaining process, and or claims about union involvement environment and community HSeC standards.
Failure to adopt in operational decision-making.
Claims or labour disputes may equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets could adversely affect productivity and costs.
industrial action in pursuit lead to higher costs and reduced production and adversely impact of claims associated with the bargaining process has occurred our results and reputation.
or been threatened in some Businesses, and is likely to continue to occur as unions press claims as part of the collective Breaches in our information technology security processes bargaining process.
may adversely impact our business activities We maintain global information technology it systems, consisting these factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing of infrastructure, applications and communications networks to operations and could negatively impact our operating margins support our business activities.
these systems could be subject and expansion plans.
to security breaches e. g. cyber-crime resulting in theft, disclosure Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may or corruption of information, including information relating to adversely impact our operations acquisitions and divestments, strategic decision-making, non-public We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in investment market communications or commercially sensitive many geographic locations, both onshore and offshore.
our key port information relating to major contracts.
Security breaches could also facilities are located at Port Hedland and Hay Point in australia.
result in misappropriation of funds or disruptions to our operations.
We have 11 underground mines, including seven underground coal mines.
our operational processes may be subject to operational accidents, such as port and shipping incidents, underground mine and processing plant fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents, loss of well control, 22 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks Safety, health, environmental and community impacts, Hydraulic fracturing incidents or accidents and related regulations may our onshore uS operations involve hydraulic fracturing, an essential adversely affect our people, operations and reputation and common practice in the oil and gas industry to stimulate or licence to operate production of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock Safety formations.
Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact rock formation, to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
on our operations include fire, explosion or rock fall incidents in We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in our drilling underground mining operations, personnel conveyance equipment and completion programs.
failures in underground operations, aircraft incidents, incidents involving light vehicles and mining mobile equipment, ground attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead control failures, well blowouts, explosions or gas leaks, and to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using accidents involving inadequate isolation and working from hydraulic fracturing techniques.
increased regulation could impose heights or lifting operations.
more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations.
in the united Health States, the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by Health risks faced include fatigue, musculoskeletal illnesses and relevant uS state regulatory bodies.
Some states are considering occupational exposure to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust changes to regulations in relation to permitting, public disclosure, particulate, fluorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
and or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing and longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated related operations, including the possibility of outright bans on workplace exposures or historical exposures of our workforce to the process.
arkansas, louisiana and texas the states in which hazardous substances.
these effects may create future financial we currently operate have adopted various laws, regulations compensation obligations.
or issued regulatory guidance concerning hydraulic fracturing.
infectious diseases such as malaria may have a material adverse Several uS federal agencies are also reviewing or advancing impact upon our workers or on our communities, primarily in africa.
regulatory proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related Because we operate globally, we may be affected by potential operations.
the uS environmental Protection agency ePa pandemic influenza outbreaks, such as a H1n1 and avian flu, commenced a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing in any of the regions in which we operate.
activities on drinking water resources and issued a non-determinative Environment Progress report in December 2012. a draft report, not including environmental incidents have the potential to lead to material prospective case study work, is expected in late CY2014.
the ePa adverse impacts on our operations.
these include uncontrolled is expected to issue a final report for peer review in CY2016.
tailings containment breaches, subsidence from mining activities, the ePas office of inspector General is researching the ePas and escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases states ability to manage potential threats to water resources from of hydrocarbons.
hydraulic fracturing, with a possible longer-term study to follow.
the uS Bureau of land Management BlM is planning to issue our operations by their nature have the potential to adversely a revised proposed rule in CY2014 that would impose new impact biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem services.
requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations conducted on Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, regulatory federal lands, including the disclosure of chemicals used, wellbore requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent or delay integrity, water use and disposal of flow back water.
activity at project approvals and result in increased costs for mitigation, the federal level, including the ongoing ePa study, BlM rules offsets or compensatory actions.
and other analysis by federal and state agencies to assess the We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
impacts of hydraulic fracturing could spur additional legislative our operating and closed facilities are required to have closure or regulatory actions.
Changes in regulatory or community expectations may While we have not experienced a material delay or substantially result in the relevant plans not being adequate.
this may increase higher operating costs as a result of current regulatory requirements financial provisioning and costs at the affected operations.
in our onshore uS operations, we cannot predict whether additional Community federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and what local communities may become dissatisfied with the impact of such actions would require or prohibit.
additional legislation or our operations or oppose our new development projects, including regulation could subject our operations to delays and increased through litigation, potentially affecting costs and production, costs, or prohibit certain activities, which could adversely affect and in extreme cases viability.
Community related risks may include the financial performance of our onshore uS operations.
community protests or civil unrest, and may cause delays to Due to the nature of our operations, HSeC incidents or accidents proposed developments.
our operations or activities also risk and related regulations may adversely affect our reputation inadvertent breaches of human rights or other international laws or licence to operate.
Climate change may impact the value of our Company, HSE legislation and our operations and markets the nature of the industries in which we operate means many of our the physical impacts of climate change and various regulations activities are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental that seek to address climate change may negatively affect our HSe laws.
as regulatory standards and expectations are constantly operations, productivity and the markets in which we sell our developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance products.
according to the intergovernmental Panel on Climate costs and unforeseen environmental rehabilitation expenses.
Change iPCC, fossil fuel-related emissions are a significant source legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream of greenhouse gases contributing to climate change.
We produce users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas for sale to customers, and to establish that the substances can be used without negatively we use fossil fuels in our mining and processing operations either affecting health or the environment may impact our operations directly or through the purchase of fossil fuel-based electricity.
these potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational costs could negatively affect our financial results.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 23 23 1 Strategic report continued 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks continued a number of national governments have already introduced Changing consumer demand towards alternative energy supply or are contemplating the introduction of regulatory responses options could present a threat to existing fossil fuel markets.
to greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels the physical effects of climate change on our operations may to address the impacts of climate change.
this includes countries include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising where we have operations such as australia, the united States, sea levels, increased storm intensities and higher temperatures.
South africa and Chile, as well as customer markets such as these effects may adversely impact the financial performance China, india and europe.
From a medium to long-term perspective, of our operations.
we are likely to see some adverse changes in the cost position A breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory of our greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets penalties and loss of reputation as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries where we operate.
these proposed regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations We operate in a global environment that encompasses multiple directly or indirectly through our suppliers and customers.
jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
our governance assessments of the potential impact of future climate change and compliance processes, which include the review of internal regulation are uncertain given the wide scope of potential regulatory controls over financial reporting and specific internal controls in change in the many countries in which we operate.
For example, relation to offers of things of value to government officials and the australian Government repealed a carbon tax in 2014, the South representatives of state-owned enterprises, may not prevent african Government plans to introduce a carbon tax beginning future potential breaches of law, accounting or governance practice.
in 2016 and carbon pricing is being discussed as part of a broader our Code of Business Conduct, together with our mandatory tax reform package in Chile.
policies, such as the anti-corruption, trade and financial sanctions and competition policies, may not prevent instances of fraudulent there is a potential gap between the current valuation of fossil fuel behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal reserves on the balance sheets of companies and in global equities or regulatory requirements.
this may lead to regulatory fines, markets and the reduced value that could result if a significant disgorgement of profits, litigation, loss of operating licences proportion of reserves were rendered incapable of extraction in an or reputational damage.
economically viable fashion due to regulatory or market responses to climate change.
in such a scenario, reserve assets held on our balance sheet may need to be impaired or written off and our inability to make productive use of such assets may also negatively impact our financial condition and results.
3 Management of principal risks the scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.7.
our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area Risk management approach External risks the diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies and currencies is a key strategy for reducing the effects of volatility.
Section 1.15.1 describes external factors and risks arise from falls in commodity trends affecting our results and note 29 Financial risk management to the Financial prices and demand in major markets Statements outlines the Groups financial risk management strategy, including market, such as China or europe or changes commodity, and currency risk.
the Financial risk Management Committee oversees in currency exchange rates and actions these risks as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16.
We also engage with governments by governments and political events and other key stakeholders to ensure the potential adverse impacts of proposed fiscal, that impact long-term fiscal stability.
tax, resource investment, infrastructure access and regulatory changes are understood and where possible mitigated.
Business risks the Group resource and Business optimisation function provides governance and technical leadership for Mineral resource development and ore reserves reporting as described risks include the inherent uncertainty of in section 2.3.
2. our governance over reporting of Petroleum reserves is described in identifying and proving reserves, adding section 2.3.
1. and divesting assets and managing our capital development projects.
We have established investment approval processes that apply to all major capital projects and asset divestment and acquisitions.
the investment Committee oversees these as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16. the Group Project Management function additionally seeks to ensure that projects are safe, predictable and competitive.
We have established project hubs as operating centres for the study and execution of a pipeline of major capital projects using a program management approach.
24 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.7.
3 Management of principal risks continued Principal risk area Risk management approach Financial risks We seek to maintain a solid a credit rating, supported by our portfolio risk management strategy.
as part of this strategy, commodity prices and currency exchange rates are not Continued volatility in global financial hedged, and wherever possible we take the prevailing market price.
We use Cash Flow markets may adversely impact future cash at risk analysis to monitor volatilities and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review flows, our ability to adequately access processes are required to be established for all customers and financial counterparties.
and source capital from financial markets the Financial risk Management Committee oversees these as described in sections 3.15 and our credit rating.
Volatility may and 3.16. note 29 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements outlines our impact planned expenditures, as well financial risk management strategy.
as the ability to recover investments in mining and oil and gas projects.
in addition, the commercial counterparties customers, suppliers and financial institutions we transact with may, due to adverse market conditions, fail to meet their contractual obligations.
Operational risks We seek to ensure that adequate operating margins are maintained through our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost and expandable upstream assets.
operating cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively impact the Groups concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and drive productivity operating margins and expansion plans.
improvements has realised tangible results, with a reduction in controllable costs.
non-operated assets may not comply the capability to sustain productivity improvements is being further enhanced through with our standards.
unexpected natural continued refinements to our operating Model.
the operating Model is designed to and operational catastrophes may deliver a simple and scalable organisation, providing a competitive advantage through adversely impact our operations.
defining work, organisation and performance measurements.
Defined global business Breaches in it security processes processes, including 1SaP, provide a standardised way of working across the organisation.
may adversely impact the conduct Common processes generate useful data and improve operating discipline.
Global sourcing of our business activities.
arrangements have been established to ensure continuity of supply and competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence the application of our standards to non-operated assets.
through the application of our risk management processes, we identify catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
Business continuity plans are required to be established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business interruption and construction.
it security controls to protect it infrastructure, applications and communication networks and respond to security incidents are in place and subject to regular monitoring and assessment.
to maintain adequate levels of protection, we also continue to monitor the development of threats in the external environment and assess potential responses to those threats.
Sustainability risks our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our Charter and described in section 1.14. a comprehensive set of Group level Documents GlDs set out Group-wide HSeC-related HSeC incidents or accidents and related performance requirements to ensure effective management control of these risks.
regulations may adversely affect our people, operations and reputation or our approach to corporate planning, investment decision-making and portfolio licence to operate.
the potential physical management provides a focus on the identification, assessment and management of impacts and related responses to climate climate change risks.
We have been applying an internal price on carbon in our investment change may impact the value of our decisions for more than a decade.
through a comprehensive and strategic approach Company, and operations and markets.
to corporate planning, we work with a broad range of scenarios to assess our portfolio, Given we operate in a challenging including consideration of a broad range of potential policy responses to and impacts global environment straddling multiple from climate change.
our models suggest that BHP Billitons portfolio diversification jurisdictions, a breach of our governance results in the resilience of our overall asset valuation through all these scenarios.
processes may lead to regulatory as with our other risks, for climate change risk our Risk Management GlD provides the penalties and loss of reputation.
internal audits are conducted to test compliance with GlD requirements and action plans are developed to address any gaps.
Key findings are reported to senior management and reports are considered by relevant Board committees.
our Code of Business Conduct sets out requirements related to working with integrity, including dealings with government officials and third parties.
Processes and controls are in place for the internal control over financial reporting, including under Sarbanes-oxley.
We have also established anti-corruption and antitrust related performance requirements, which are overseen by the legal and Compliance function.
additionally, the Disclosure Committee oversees our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous and periodic disclosure obligations as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 25 25 O v e f R e i x r n I t C s e a S e r O n n K e c a s i M l a a & l a M r n u e d I A d p i T t o m U T o r r o t, E D i n r n I E i i g s t T, k o r s D E L O E R v G r E e e A r T C m M s I O u e O N U e n s e M N r a a M E n t i d I o R T n A m T p o T E o I n l E i i O t c y o N r s G R C O H U I c O O O P O E O O O O a O R R & v v v S S v F m m v v p r r v v e s s s v f M e e e E E R e i i e e e e U U a a N N N x e e u u u e r t r r C E r n C C r r G A I C t t t B C C r r c r c c m m C C a s s s s C S S M M s s a e e e s s O O O S X s l c c c r N r r O e e e e r O O e e O u u r r O d O O n e e F T T e O O e e e e e e O ii s n E K e e A e e U U e e n n u c e e I a a s t s s M e M M O n n n A A a s i V M s s s M s s r M M M M e e ll e s C s s G s s M M s l M a e N e e i ii N N u r r I I I I I & a l E E H H a a a a a o d o o U a a a a a A a c w w w M M M M r N N i N N N A E E M M M M n S S 1 Strategic report continued 1.8 Our approach to corporate governance At BHP Billiton, we have a governance framework that goes beyond an interest in governance for its own sake or the need to simply comply with regulatory requirements.
Instead, we believe high-quality governance supports long-term value creation.
Simply put, we think good governance is good business, and our approach is to adopt what we consider to be the better of the prevailing governance standards in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States.
in the same spirit, we do not see governance as just a matter for Our Charter is core to the governance framework of BHP Billiton.
Good governance is also the responsibility of senior it embodies our corporate purpose, strategy and values, and management and is embedded throughout the organisation.
defines when we are successful.
We foster a culture that values and rewards high ethical standards, personal and corporate the diagram below describes the governance framework integrity and respect for others.
it shows the interaction between the shareholders and the Board, demonstrates how the Board Committee structure We live the values enshrined in Our Charter and adhere to the facilitates the interaction between the Board and the Ceo and standards of conduct required by our Code of Business Conduct.
illustrates the flow of delegation from shareholders.
We have Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance is robust processes in place to ensure the delegation flows through expressed through the approach BHP Billiton takes to engaging the Board and its committees to the Ceo and the GMC and into the and communicating with shareholders.
at the same time, accountability flows back upwards to make their views known to us.
from the Company to shareholders.
this process helps to ensure our shareholders are based across the globe.
outside of the alignment with shareholders.
annual General Meetings aGMs, which are an important step as part of our corporate planning cycle, we have embedded a range in the governance and investor engagement process, the Board of scenarios that are reviewed annually and updated by the Group uses a range of formal and informal communication channels to with the GMCs involvement.
the scenarios, and the governance understand shareholder views to ensure it can represent shareholders process supporting them, also form part of the Board agenda.
regular proactive engagement with these scenarios provide a lens to assess the performance of our institutional shareholders and investor representative organisations business portfolio.
they include assumptions around carbon and takes place in australia, South africa, the united Kingdom and the commodity prices, currencies, costs and tax rates and ranges for united States.
the purpose of these meetings is to discuss the full a number of risks that face the Group, including climate change, range of governance issues, as well as the broad strategy of the global growth, levels of trade, geopolitical situation and technology Group.
they offer an important opportunity to build relationships focus.
all of the scenarios are used to inform BHP Billitons strategy and to engage directly with governance managers, fund managers and the resilience of our diversified asset portfolio over the short and governance advisers.
For more information on our corporate governance processes, refer to section 3 of this Annual Report as we set out in section 3 of this annual report, while the five committees have accountability for making recommendations to the Board on certain matters, such as remuneration and sustainability, we ensure all Board members have oversight and the opportunity for full discussion of those issues through the committee report-out process to the full Board.
BHP Billiton governance structure SHAREHOLDERS 26 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 M n n t t t u n n n n n n l R n n n ii a e a a i T M d u E E I I I I d d A d o o d I I d d l R R I I d d ll g I A A d A A A N I E p p p p r i N T C C T T T n n e l T T T T ll t T V e a a a o N m T U T T R A A m m B B a a a C T o m m n m m m m, T T T r T T A n T T n n T m m E T p p I I I r n o t n n c I I o o T T f, E D o o E E E o i o d o o d d E o o E E E E E e a a n n n O n O O L L u C I I n n N r n ll n n E n I i O ii D n E E i n n t t i ii I I ii E E E E n E E ii g s i O t t t n n n O O c c i t t ii T N N N t t C t T T F d, t k t t e e o y y o o g g g o o i o M r r o r o o F N N r r E Y Y n r r s s r s I r s s r r s s s M g s s s C, I T E T R E E O S m v U a e t r C S e s r e T O i e a A l s M I H a N M S n E d I A A C T C B m T m C I o E O a L n t U I E i t t N T e o T r Y r A s s B I L I T Y c a O p v i e t r a C s l d F e O s u I t e r e s M N u d a c i A t M l n i u g d N I r e T e C n m, T c f E o E e u n E n i t d o i n r s g, 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.9 Our approach to remuneration Our Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance, aligning the activities of management to the interests of shareholders, and in supporting Our BHP Billiton Charter.
The remuneration policy is reviewed annually and, where appropriate, fine-tuned to ensure that it continues to be effective in achieving these goals.
Remuneration at BHP Billiton Our approach the key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain there have been no substantial changes to our underlying approach unchanged, are to: we ensure that remuneration outcomes reflect the performance of the Group, Businesses and individuals.
this approach has enjoyed support the execution of the Groups business strategy in a strong level of support from shareholders, with a vote in favour accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate for for the remuneration report of 97 per cent at last years annual the organisation: General Meetings.
provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: our approach to incentive structures has been in place for more apply demanding performance measures, including key than a decade and has served both shareholders and participants financial and non-financial measures of performance: well, delivering remuneration outcomes to executives aligned to the performance of the Group and of individuals.
BHP Billiton link a significant component of pay to our performance and the adopted the deferral of a substantial portion of short-term incentive creation of value for our shareholders from relative outperformance: awards in equity in 2003, and a five-year term for long-term ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate incentive awards in 2004. these approaches, which were then the deployment of people around the Group: market leading, have since become more prevalent and limit severance payments on termination to pre-established acknowledged as best practice.
contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making any unjustified payments.
notwithstanding our stable approach, the Committee and the Board continue to pay close attention to shareholders views so they can Link to strategy be factored into the Groups future approach.
Our Charter sets out our purpose, strategy, values and how we Summary measure our success.
in framing how we remunerate our executives, we are guided by the measures of success contained in Our Charter.
our fundamental philosophies and approaches to remuneration they are designed to ensure that executives take a long-term have not changed we trust that you will agree that our long held, approach to decision-making and to minimise activities that focus consistent approach to aligning remuneration to performance has only on short-term results at the expense of longer-term business served shareholders well.
the Committee has considered the ways For more information on our remuneration policies and the remuneration in which risk management and the long-term horizon are outcomes for members of the GMC and Non-executive Directors, refer to reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements section 4 of this Annual Report for all executives, and is satisfied that our approach reinforces the desired behaviours.
this is largely achieved through the Groups approach to short-term and long-term incentive awards, which comprise a significant portion of total remuneration for our Chief executive officer, andrew Mackenzie, and other members of the Group Management Committee GMC.
the equity component of the short-term incentive award is deferred for a two-year period, and performance under the long-term incentive plan is measured over a five-year period.
the actual rewards received by Mr Mackenzie and other members of the GMC therefore reflect the Groups performance and share price over an extended period.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 27 27 1 Strategic report continued 1.10 Key performance 1.10.1 Sustainability KPIs indicators Definition TRIF total recordable injury frequency triF is an indicator Our key performance indicators KPIs in highlighting broad personal injury trends and is enable us to measure our financial and calculated based on the number of recordable injuries Per million hours worked sustainable development performance.
this data only includes wholly 8.0 owned and operated assets or assets operated in a joint Their relevance to our strategy and our venture operation from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014. performance against these measures Link to strategy in FY2014 are explained below.
6.0 our overriding commitment is to ensuring the safety and health of our people and this is supported by Our Charter value of Sustainability.
these KPis are used as measures, directly and indirectly, in the short-term and or long-term FY2014 performance 4.0 incentive arrangements for remuneration of our triF has improved by 21 per cent over the senior executives.
Certain KPis denoted with last five years.
During FY2014, we improved our this symbol are used directly to calculate triF by nine per cent and had no fatalities at our 2.0 operated assets.
incentive outcomes and others denoted with this symbol are considered more broadly in For information on our approach to health and determining final overall results.
our remuneration safety and our performance, refer to section 1.14 report is contained in section 4 of this annual 0 of this Annual Report report and provides information on our overall approach to remuneration of executives, including remuneration policies and the remuneration outcomes for members of the GMC and non-executive Directors.
Definition GHG emissions Greenhouse gas GHG emissions are measured according to the World resources institute World For information on our remuneration policies Business Council for Sustainable Development Millions of tonnes COe 2 and the remuneration outcomes for members of Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
this data only includes wholly 50 GMC and Non-executive Directors, refer to section 4 owned and operated assets or assets operated in a joint of this Annual Report venture operation from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2014.
40 Link to strategy the global challenge of climate change remains a priority for our organisation and is core to our strategic 30 decision-making.
our GHG emissions are monitored and our performance is tracked against our target.
FY2014 performance 20 the Groups GHG emissions declined by 1.7 Mt Coe 2 to 45.0 Mt Coe, which keeps our emissions in line to 2 achieve our target.
10 For additional information on our GHG emissions, including a description of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 0 emissions, refer to section 1.14.4 of this Annual Report Scope 1 Scope 2 Definition Community our voluntary community investment comprising cash, investment in-kind support, administrative costs and contributions to the BHP Billiton Foundation and BHP Billiton US$ million Sustainable Communities our corporate charities.
300 includes BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations.
250 Link to strategy We believe that in addition to operating a responsible 200 and ethical company, we can make a broader contribution to the communities in which we operate and support Our Charter value of Sustainability.
150 FY2014 performance our voluntary community investment totalled 100 uS$241.7 million, comprising uS$141.7 million in cash, in-kind support and administrative costs, and a uS$100 million contribution to 50 the BHP Billiton Foundation.
0 For additional information on our community investment, refer to section 1.14 of this Annual Report Expenditure Corporate charities 28 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2014 141.7 100.0 2014 22.7 22.3 2014 4.2 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.10.2 Financial KPIs 1.10.3 Capital management KPIs Definition Definition Attributable Total Shareholder attributable profit represents Profit tSr shows the total return to the profit Return TSR after taxation attributable to members shareholder during the year.
it US$ billion of BHP Billiton Group.
% change from previous year combines both movements in share 3-month average prices and dividends paid which are 25 Link to strategy assumed to be reinvested.
40 this is a key financial measure that provides Link to strategy insight on the amount of profit available to 20 30 distribute to shareholders, which aligns to our tSr measures performance of the purpose as presented in Our Charter.
organisation in terms of shareholder 20 wealth generation, which aligns to FY2014 performance 15 our purpose as presented in Our attributable profit increased by 23 per cent to Charter, and enables the comparison 10 uS$13.8 billion, benefiting from a reduction in of our performance with that of our the Groups effective tax rate to 31.5 per cent.
0 For our Consolidated Financial FY2014 performance Statements, refer to section 7 of this -10 tSr grew 13 per cent as a result 5 Annual Report of increases in both the BHP Billiton -20 share price and the dividends paid.
BHP Billiton outperformed its peer 0 companies by 17.8 per cent from -30 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2014.
Definition Definition Underlying EBIT Long-term underlying eBit is earnings before net finance Credit ratings are forward looking credit rating costs, taxation and any exceptional items.
Standard & Poors and Moodys credit ratings Standard & Poors US$ billion Link to strategy express the opinion of each agency 35 this is a key financial measure used across the about the ability and willingness Group.
it gives insight to cost management, 2014 A of BHP Billiton to meet its financial 30 production growth and performance efficiency.
obligations in full and on time.
2013 A FY2014 performance Link to strategy 25 underlying eBit was unchanged for the year 2012 A one of BHP Billitons priorities for at uS$22.9 billion as benefits attributable capital management is to maintain a 2011 A 20 to productivity initiatives during the period solid a credit rating, which indicates totalling uS$2.9 billion and further volume 2010 A the strength of our balance sheet.
15 increases from the successful commissioning FY2014 performance and ramp-up of our low-risk, brownfield Moodys development projects of uS$1.9 billion were BHP Billiton has maintained a 10 offset by the decrease in commodity prices, long-term credit rating of a impact of inflation on costs and an increase in from Standard & Poors and a1 5 2014 A1 our depreciation and amortisation expense.
from Moodys over the last five years.
2013 A1 0 For a reconciliation of Underlying EBIT For additional information on our to Profit from operations, refer to section 1.11 liquidity and capital resources, refer 2012 A1 of this Annual Report.
For our Consolidated to section 1.15.5 of this Annual Report 2011 A1 Financial Statements, refer to section 7 of this Annual Report 2010 A1 Definition Net operating net operating cash flow represents the cash cash flow generated by the Groups consolidated operations, after dividends received, interest, taxation and US$ billion royalty-related taxation.
this figure excludes cash 35 flows relating to investing and financing activities.
Link to strategy 30 net operating cash flow provides insight into how we are managing costs and increasing 25 efficiency and productivity across the Company.
20 FY2014 performance net operating cash flows after interest and 15 tax increased by 26 per cent to uS$25.4 billion.
a uS$2.6 billion increase in cash generated from operations after changes in working capital 10 balances and a uS$2.1 billion decrease in net taxes paid were the major contributors to the 5 strong increase.
0 For our Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to section 7 of this Annual Report 1 restated in the Financial Statements to be disclosed on the same basis as FY2014.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 29 29 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 1 1 1 2012 2012 2012 1 1 1 2013 2013 2013 2014 25.4 2014 22.9 2014 13.8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 13.0 1 Strategic report continued 1.11 Summary of consolidated performance 1.11.1 Selected financial information our selected financial information reflects the operations of the BHP Billiton Group, and should be read in conjunction with the FY2014 Financial Statements, together with the accompanying notes.
We prepare our consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with international Financial reporting Standards iFrS, as issued by the international accounting Standards Board, and as outlined in note 1 accounting policies to the Financial Statements in this annual report.
We publish our consolidated Financial Statements in uS dollars.
Comparative financial information for FY2013 and FY2012 has been restated for the effects of new accounting standards and interpretations which are effective in the financial year commencing from 1 July 2013 relating to: iFrS 10 aaSB 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which is a replacement of iaS 27 aaSB 127 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements: iFrS 11 aaSB 11 Joint arrangements which is a replacement of iaS 31 aaSB 131 Joint Ventures: iaS 28 investments in associates and Joint Ventures which is a replacement of iaS 28 accounting for investments in associates: iFriC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine: iFrS 13 aaSB 13 Fair Value Measurement: and amendments to iaS 19 aaSB 119 employee Benefits.
the Group has also changed its exploration and evaluation expenditure policy from 1 July 2013 such that all acquisitions of exploration leases are classified as intangible exploration assets or tangible exploration assets based on the nature of the assets acquired.
For further detail of the nature and the impact of these changes, on comparative financial information, refer to note 37 impact of new accounting standards and change in accounting policies to the Financial Statements.
We use several financial measures to monitor the financial performance of our overall strategy.
the two key measures are Profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Billiton Group attributable profit and underlying eBit.
2 underlying attributable profit, underlying eBit and underlying eBitDa are used to reflect the underlying performance of BHP Billiton.
underlying attributable profit is attributable profit excluding any exceptional items.
underlying eBit is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and any exceptional items.
underlying eBitDa is underlying eBit before depreciation, impairments and amortisation.
We believe that underlying attributable profit, underlying eBit and underlying eBitDa provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or as an alternative to, attributable profit as an indicator of actual operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
underlying eBit and underlying eBitDa are included in the FY2014 Consolidated Financial Statements as required by iFrS 8 operating Segments.
3 represents the share of capital and exploration expenditure attributable to BHP Billiton shareholders on a cash basis.
includes BHP Billiton proportionate share of equity accounted investments: excludes capitalised deferred stripping and non-controlling interests.
FY2011 and FY2010 data has not been restated and represents the capital and exploration expenditure of the Group on a cash basis, as published.
4 net operating cash flows are after net interest and taxation.
on 1 July 2010, the Group adopted the policy of classifying exploration cash flows which are not recognised as assets as net operating cash flows.
Previously such cash flows were classified as net investing cash flows.
the change in policy arose from amendments to iaS7 aaSB7 Cash Flows.
Comparative figures have been restated.
5 FY2011 and FY2010 data has not been restated for the effects of new accounting standards and interpretations and other voluntary changes in accounting policy, which are effective in the financial year commencing from 1 July 2013.
30 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.11.1 Selected financial information continued Non-IFRS measures of the Groups investment in equity accounted investments, with no adjustment for any cash balances, interest bearing We use a number of non-iFrS measures to assess our performance.
liabilities and deferred tax balances of the associate.
non-iFrS measures are defined as follows: underlying attributable profit comprises Profit after taxation Financial results for year ended 30 June 2014 compared attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group less exceptional with year ended 30 June 2013 items as described in note 3 exceptional items to the revenue in FY2014 was uS$67.2 billion, an increase of uS$1.2 billion, Financial Statements.
or 1.9 per cent, from uS$66.0 billion in the corresponding period.
underlying basic earnings per share represents basic earnings the revenue increase was primarily reflected in the iron ore and per share excluding any exceptional items.
Petroleum and Potash Businesses, with increases of uS$2.8 billion underlying eBitDa interest coverage for the purpose of deriving and uS$1.6 billion, respectively.
these increases were offset by interest coverage, net interest comprises interest on bank loans decreases in our Copper Business of uS$669 million, in our Coal and overdrafts, interest on all other borrowings, Finance lease Business of uS$780 million, in our aluminium, Manganese and and hire purchase interest less interest income.
nickel Business of uS$867 million and by the loss of revenue of our disposed former Diamonds and Specialty Products Business adjusted effective tax rate comprises total taxation expense of uS$325 million.
excluding remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with the Minerals resource rent tax Mrrt, exceptional items and the increase in revenue in iron ore was primarily due to an increase exchange rate movements included in taxation expense divided in sales volumes of 17 per cent to 202 Mt, which contributed to an by Profit before taxation and exceptional items.
increase in revenue of uS$3.2 billion, partially offset by a six per cent underlying eBit margin comprises underlying eBit excluding decline in average realised price of iron ore to uS$103 per wet metric third party product profit from operations, divided by revenue tonne FoB, which reduced revenue by uS$522 million.
the increase excluding third party product revenue.
in revenue in Petroleum was primarily due to an increase in volume underlying eBitDa margin comprises underlying eBitDa excluding of four per cent in FY2014 to 246 MMboe, which contributed to an third party product eBitDa, divided by revenue excluding third party increase in revenue of uS$1.4 billion, and to higher realised prices, product revenue.
which contributed to an additional increase of uS$219 million.
the decrease in other businesses mainly reflected lower realised underlying return on capital represents net profit after tax prices in our Copper Business uS$1.2 billion, Coal Business excluding exceptional items and net finance costs after tax, uS$1.4 billion and aluminium, Manganese and nickel Business divided by average capital employed.
Capital employed is net uS$394 million.
Free cash flow comprises net operating cash flows less overall the uS$1.2 billion increase in revenue in FY2014 can be net investing cash flows.
attributed to uS$5.5 billion related to increased volumes, which net debt comprises interest bearing liabilities less Cash are within our control, offset primarily by uS$3.3 billion related and cash equivalents.
to prices, which are uncontrollable, uS$494 million for ceased and sold operations, and uS$202 million for exchange rates.
net operating assets represents operating assets net of operating liabilities, including the carrying value of equity total expenses decreased from uS$50.0 billion in FY2013 to accounted investments and predominantly excludes cash uS$46.5 billion in FY2014.
excluding exceptional items, the majority balances, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances.
of which related to impairments in FY2013, total expenses have the carrying value of investments accounted for using increased by uS$1.6 billion or 3.5 per cent during FY2014 from the equity accounted method represents the balance uS$45.0 billion to uS$46.5 billion.
2014 2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M raw materials and consumables used 8,842 8,926 8,128 employee benefits expense 6,903 7,168 6,035 1 external services including transportation 11,736 12,478 14,293 third party commodity purchases 2,935 2,759 3,402 net foreign exchange losses gains 100 284 571 Fair value change on derivatives 120 79 141 Government royalties paid and payable 2,760 2,562 2,880 Depreciation and amortisation expense 8,701 7,031 6,431 exploration and evaluation expenditure 716 1,047 1,644 2 impairment of assets 797 5,496 3,763 operating lease rentals 759 776 658 3 other operating expenses 2,384 2,002 2,122 Total expenses 46,513 50,040 48,644 less exceptional items 5,087 3,786 Total expenses excluding exceptional items 46,513 44,953 44,858 1 includes exceptional items of uS$ nil 2013: uS$96 million: 2012: uS$ nil.
2 includes exceptional items of uS$ nil 2013: uS$5,149 million: 2012: uS$3,663 million.
3 includes exceptional items of uS$ nil 2013: credit of uS$158 million: 2012: uS$ nil.
the majority of the increase relates to non-cash expenses for depreciation and amortisation uS$1.7 billion, impairments not classified as exceptional items uS$450 million and changes to provisions for mine site rehabilitation uS$300 million.
increases in other non-cash charges also included provisions for restructuring and a lower capitalisation rate for deferred stripping at escondida and Pampa norte.
increases in costs attributable to inflation were uS$805 million.
Higher expenses associated with increased production across our four major Businesses of uS$2.6 billion were more than offset by reduced operating costs.
our focus on reducing operating costs through productivity initiatives saw cost efficiencies in our Businesses, in particular our Coal Business.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 31 31 1 Strategic report continued 1.11.1 Selected financial information continued reductions in expenses excluding exceptional items were evident in employee benefit expense uS$265 million, external services uS$646 million, exploration and evaluation expenditure uS$331 million and raw materials and consumables uS$84 million.
in total operating costs were aided by favourable exchange rate impacts of uS$2.0 billion.
other income decreased from uS$3.9 billion in FY2013 to uS$1.5 billion.
excluding exceptional items, the majority of which relates to gains on the sale of assets, other income increased from uS$788 million to uS$973 million.
Profit from operations increased by uS$2.4 billion, or 11 per cent, from uS$21.0 billion to uS$23.4 billion.
exceptional items during FY2014 comprised a gain on sale of our Pinto Valley mining operation of uS$551 million, compared with net exceptional charges of uS$1.9 billion in FY2013.
in that context, in FY2014 Profit from operations excluding exceptional items, which we refer to as underlying eBit, declined by 0.3 per cent, or uS$69 million, to uS$22.9 billion.
Underlying EBIT in discussing the operating results of the Group, we focus on a financial measure we refer to as underlying eBit.
underlying eBit is the key measure that management uses internally to assess the performance of our Businesses, make decisions on the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because financing structures and tax regimes differ across our assets and substantial components of our tax and interest charges are levied at a Group level rather than an operational level.
We exclude exceptional items from underlying eBit in order to enhance the comparability of the measure from period to period and provide clarity into the underlying performance of our operations.
our management monitors exceptional items separately.
the following table reconciles underlying eBit to Profit from operations.
2014 2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M underlying eBit 22,861 22,930 28,086 exceptional items before taxation refer section 1.15.3 551 1,928 3,486 Profit from operations EBIT 23,412 21,002 24,600 attributable profit increased by 23 per cent to uS$13.8 billion due to a decrease of the Groups effective tax rate from 35.0 per cent to 31.5 per cent.
attributable profit excluding exceptional items comprising Profit after taxation attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group less exceptional items of uS$13.4 billion increased due to a decrease in the Groups adjusted effective tax rate from 34.2 per cent to 32.5 per cent.
net operating cash flows after interest and tax increased by 26 per cent to uS$25.4 billion in FY2014.
a uS$2.6 billion increase in cash generated from operations after changes in working capital balances and a uS$2.1 billion decrease in net taxes paid were the major contributors to the strong increase.
We delivered a substantial uS$8.1 billion increase in free cash flow, being net operating cash flows less net investing cash flows, despite weaker commodity prices.
in this context, capital and exploration expenditure BHP Billiton share declined by 32 per cent to uS$15.2 billion in the period.
We finished the period with net debt of uS$25.8 billion 2013: uS$27.5 billion, which included finance leases of uS$1.3 billion 2013: uS$137 million, for a gearing ratio of 23 per cent 2013: 27 per cent.
Further analysis of underlying eBit for the Businesses is included in section 1.12 and for the Group in section 1.15.3 of this annual report.
1.11.2 Production performance a summary of our production volumes for FY2014 and the previous two financial years is shown below.
Further details appear in section 2.2 of this annual report.
Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 total Petroleum production MMboe 246 236 222 Copper kt 1,727 1,689 1,468 iron ore kt 203,564 169,856 159,478 Metallurgical coal kt 45,078 37,650 33,230 energy coal kt 73,492 72,445 74,267 alumina kt 5,178 4,880 4,152 aluminium kt 1,174 1,179 1,153 Manganese ores kt 8,302 8,517 7,931 Manganese alloys kt 646 608 602 nickel kt 143 154 158 1.11.3 Projects and pipeline our project pipeline focuses on commodities that are expected to be high-margin and create significant future value.
During FY2014, eight projects were completed for a total capital expenditure subject to finalisation of uS$10.3 billion.
at the end of FY2014, we had seven major projects under development in execution and one other project in pre-development phase with a combined budget of uS$14.1 billion.
this budget does not include an additional uS$4.0 billion of capital expenditure that we expect to spend in FY2015 on development of our onshore uS asset.
For more information on our major projects and pipeline refer to sections 1.12, 2.1 and 2.4 of this annual report.
32 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12 Our Businesses the description of our Businesses and a discussion of their performance is set out below.
For further information on our assets, production, results and reserves and resources refer to section 2 of this annual report.
For further information on the financial results of our Businesses, refer to note 2 Segment reporting to the Financial Statements.
1.12.1 Revenue and Underlying EBIT performance by Business the following tables provide a summary of revenue and underlying eBit for FY2014 and the two prior corresponding periods of our Businesses and the Group.
our use of underlying eBit is explained in section 1.11.1 of this annual report.
2 includes the Groups diamonds business divested effective 10 april 2013, interest in titanium minerals divested effective 3 September 2012, non-Potash corporate costs incurred by the former Diamonds and Specialty Products Business, consolidation adjustments, unallocated items and external sales of freight and fuel via the Groups transport and logistics operations.
Year ended 30 June 2014 compared with year ended 30 June 2013 underlying eBit for FY2014 was uS$22.9 billion, basically unchanged from FY2013.
a substantial reduction in commodity prices reduced underlying eBit by uS$3.4 billion.
this was offset by cost improvements which underpinned a decrease in operating cash costs of uS$1.5 billion and a decrease in exploration and business development costs of uS$398 million.
in addition, higher volumes attributed to our development projects coming online and through productivity efficiencies at existing assets, primarily in iron ore and Petroleum, contributed an additional uS$2.9 billion to underlying eBit.
this was offset by increased depreciation and amortisation which reduced underlying eBit by uS$1.7 billion.
the use of the term operating cash costs is described in section 1.15.3 of this annual report.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 33 33 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.2 Petroleum and Potash Business a summary of our Petroleum and Potash Business assets, capital projects and FY2014 performance is presented below.
Description of the Petroleum Business our production operations include the following: Gulf of Mexico United States We operate two fields in the Gulf of Mexico Shenzi with a 44 per cent interest and neptune with a 35 per cent interest and hold non-operating interests in three other fields atlantis with a 44 per cent interest, Mad Dog with a 23.9 per cent interest, and Genesis with a 4.95 per cent interest.
We have ongoing infill drilling in our Gulf of Mexico fields.
We completed water injection development projects at Shenzi and atlantis in CY2013.
all the fields are located between 155 and 210 kilometres offshore of the uS state Our Petroleum and Potash Business headquartered in of louisiana.
We also own 25 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, Houston, United States, comprises conventional and of the companies that own and operate the Caesar oil pipeline and non-conventional operations located in six countries the Cleopatra gas pipeline.
Production in FY2014 was 36.1 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe up from 30.6 MMboe in FY2013.
throughout the world and a potash project based in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Onshore US United States We produce oil, condensate, nGls and natural gas in four shale areas: eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville.
the eagle Results Ford area has two sections, Black Hawk and Hawkville.
Much of the eagle Ford and Permian areas are focused on hydrocarbon liquids.
the Haynesville and Fayetteville areas are focused on natural gas.
2014 2013 2012 our combined leasehold acreage onshore in the united States is Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M approximately 1.2 million net acres.
our ownership interests in those revenue 14,833 13,224 12,933 leases range from less than one per cent to 100 per cent.
at 30 June 2014, we held an interest in approximately 7,700 gross wells and underlying eBit 5,287 5,636 6,033 approximately 2,600 net wells.
We acted as joint venture operator Capital expenditure 6,423 7,675 5,488 for approximately 32 per cent of our gross wells.
Production in FY2014 was 108.1 MMboe, up from 99.2 MMboe in FY2013.
net operating assets 39,514 37,525 33,583 oil and gas production from our onshore shale areas is sold total petroleum domestically in the united States, via connections to intrastate and production MMboe 246 236 222 interstate pipelines.
Prices for oil, nGls and natural gas are based on uS regional price indices, including West texas intermediate our Petroleum Business includes exploration, development, prices for oil, Henry Hub prices for natural gas and Mont Belvieu production and marketing activities.
We have a high-quality prices for nGls.
resource base concentrated in the united States and australia.
During FY2014, we sold our interest in our onshore uS South Midland our core production operations are primarily located in the uS Gulf shale operation, located in the Permian Basin, to eP energy for a of Mexico, onshore uS and in australia.
We also have operations cash consideration of uS$153 million.
in trinidad and tobago, Pakistan, algeria and the united Kingdom.
We produce crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids nGls.
our petroleum portfolio consisted of conventional oil and gas operations up until 2011, when we moved into the Map of Onshore US and Gulf of Mexico unconventional shale business.
our onshore uS operations evolved from the acquisition of the Fayetteville shale assets Oklahoma from Chesapeake energy Corporation and the acquisition New Mexico Fayetteville of Petrohawk energy Corporation.
Arkansas Mississippi Haynesville Texas Permian Houston Louisiana Eagle Ford Shenzi Neptune Gulf of Mexico Atlantis Mad Dog Liquids-focused area Gas-focused area BHP Billiton acreage 34 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.2 Petroleum and Potash Business continued Map of North West Shelf and Bass Strait Lakes Entrance Victoria Thebe Longford Snapper Tuna Kipper Jupiter Scarborough Australia Turrum North West Shelf Flounder LNG Plant Dampier Halibut Bream Tallaganda Karratha Blackback Stybarrow Barracoutta Pyrenees Kingfish Onslow Macedon BHP Billiton acreage Macedon Gas Plant Gas Fields 0 10 20 30km Bass Strait Oil Fields Bass Strait Australia Other together with our 5050 joint venture partner, esso australia We are the operator at the following operations: Minerva 90 per cent a subsidiary of exxonMobil, through the Gippsland Basin Joint interest, a gas field located 11 kilometres south-southwest of Port Venture, we participated in the original discovery of hydrocarbons Campbell in western Victoria, the Zamzama gas project 38.5 per cent in 1965 and we have been producing oil and gas from Bass Strait interest in the Sindh province of Pakistan and the Keith oil and gas for more than 40 years.
the Bass Strait operations are located field 31.83 per cent interest in the north Sea.
We have non-operating between 25 and 80 kilometres off the southeastern coast interests in roD integrated Development 38 per cent interest, of australia.
which consists of six satellite oil fields in algeria, and in the Bruce oil and gas field 16 per cent interest in the north Sea.
Production We sell the majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and condensate in FY2014 was 17.3 MMboe, down from 22.3 MMboe in FY2013.
production to refineries along the east coast of australia under More information on our assets and operations is presented in 12-month term contracts.
the contract price is based on the average section 2.1.
1 of this Annual Report Dated Brent price.
Gas is piped onshore to the joint ventures longford processing facility, from which we sell our share of Completed development projects production to domestic distributors under contracts with periodic price reviews.
Macedon Macedon is a domestic gas development that consists of a Production in FY2014 was 34.0 MMboe, down from 36.0 MMboe 200 million cubic feet per day MMcf d stand-alone gas plant, four in FY2013.
subsea production wells, a 90-kilometre 20-inch wet gas pipeline North West Shelf Australia and a 67-kilometre 20-inch sales gas pipeline.
the project was We are a joint venture participant in the north West Shelf Project, approved in august 2010.
First gas occurred in august 2013. located approximately 125 kilometres northwest of Dampier in North West Shelf North Rankin gas compression Western australia.
the north West Shelf Project was developed the north West Shelf gas compression project was approved in phases: the domestic gas phase supplies gas to the Western by the Board in March 2008 to recover remaining lower pressure australia domestic market, mainly under long-term contracts, gas from the north rankin and Perseus gas fields.
the project and a series of liquefied natural gas lnG expansion phases consisted of a new gas compression platform, north rankin B, supplying lnG to buyers in Japan, South Korea and China under capable of processing 2,500 MMcf d of gas, which was constructed a series of long-term contracts.
Gas from north West Shelf is adjacent to the existing north rankin a platform, 135 kilometres piped to the Karratha Gas Plant for processing.
We are also a offshore from Karratha on the northwest coast of Western australia.
joint venture partner in four nearby oil fields.
all north West Shelf the two platforms are connected by a 100-metre long bridge gas and oil joint ventures are operated by Woodside.
Production and operate as a single facility.
First gas production occurred in FY2014 was 28.8 MMboe, down from 30.1 MMboe in FY2013.
in october 2013. this project is operated by Woodside, with Pyrenees Australia an equally shared interest between Woodside, BHP Billiton, We operate six oil fields in Pyrenees, which are located offshore BP, Chevron, MiMi and Shell.
approximately 23 kilometres northwest of northwest Cape, Western australia.
We had an effective 62 per cent interest in the fields as Development projects in execution at year-end at 30 June 2014, based on inception to-date production from two North West Shelf Greater Western FlankA permits in which we have interests of 71.43 per cent and 40 per cent, the north West Shelf Greater Western Flanka GWF-a gas project respectively.
the project uses a floating, production, storage and was approved by the Board in november 2011 to recover gas from off-take FPSo facility.
the crude oil produced is sold internationally the near field Goodwyn H and tidepole fields.
the project consists on the spot market.
Production in FY2014 was 7.5 MMboe, down of a five well subsea tie-back of the Goodwyn H and tidepole fields from 8.5 MMboe in FY2013.
the Goodwyn a platform is located Macedon Australia in 130 metres of water, approximately 130 kilometres offshore from We are the operator of Macedon 71.43 per cent interest, an Karratha on the northwest coast of australia.
First gas production offshore gas field located approximately 75 kilometres west of is expected in CY2016.
Woodside is the operator and we own onslow, Western australia, and a gas processing facility onshore a 16.67 per cent interest.
approximately 17 kilometres southwest of onslow.
the operation Bass Strait Longford Gas Conditioning achieved first gas in august 2013 and consists of four subsea wells, the longford Gas Conditioning Plant lGCP Project was approved with gas piped onshore to the processing plant.
after processing, by the Board in December 2012 to enable the production of turrum the gas is delivered into a pipeline and sold domestically under reserves plus the production of Kipper and other undeveloped high long-term contracts.
First year production was 5.5 MMboe.
the project scope includes Greater Angostura Trinidad and Tobago a carbon dioxide extraction facility, brownfield tie-ins, an electrical We operate the Greater angostura field 45 per cent interest in the upgrade and multiple supporting utilities.
First gas production production sharing contract, an integrated oil and gas development, is expected in CY2016.
located offshore, 40 kilometres east of trinidad.
the crude oil is sold on a spot basis to international markets, while the gas is sold domestically under term contracts.
Production in FY2014 was 7.5 MMboe, up from 7.4 MMboe in FY2013.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 35 35 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.2 Petroleum and Potash Business continued Onshore US Development With our investment premised on the attractive longer-term market fundamentals for potash, we will continue to modulate the pace Drilling and development investment for onshore uS in FY2014 was of development as we seek to time our entrance to meet market uS$4.2 billion, down from uS$4.7 billion in FY2013, with uS$3.6 billion demand.
the introduction of one or more minority partners, FY2013: uS$3.8 billion spent in the liquids-focused areas of eagle consistent with our approach for certain of our other resource Ford and Permian, and uS$0.6 billion FY2013: uS$0.9 billion in the operations, will be considered at the appropriate time.
gas-focused areas of Haynesville and Fayetteville.
the expenditure primarily related to drilling and completion activities at all four areas.
on the basis of our current projections and assuming Board our onshore drilling activity in FY2014 resulted in 413 net development approval, the Jansen mine is likely to ramp-up to its nameplate wells completed, primarily in the eagle Ford and Permian areas.
capacity of approximately 10 Mtpa of agricultural grade potassium chloride in the decade beyond 2020. of the uS$4.2 billion, approximately uS$400 million was invested in the installation of more than 200 kilometres of pipeline infrastructure Performance and additional gas processing facilities, primarily in our eagle Ford and Permian areas.
the majority of drilling and completion activity in Petroleum and Potash revenue increased by uS$1.6 billion onshore uS was directed towards the liquids-focused eagle Ford and to uS$14.8 billion, mainly due to onshore uS, which increased Permian areas to capitalise on the stronger liquid prices as compared by 43 per cent to uS$4.3 billion, and atlantis, which increased with natural gas prices.
at the end of FY2014, more than 85 per cent by 80 per cent to uS$1.5 billion.
of drilling activity was conducted in these areas.
the increase in revenue primarily resulted from an increase in More information on our development and capital projects is presented volume of four per cent in FY2014 to 246 MMboe.
a 16 MMboe in section 2.4 of this Annual Report increase in liquids production was underpinned by a 73 per cent increase in onshore uS liquids volumes and a near doubling of Exploration and evaluation production at atlantis.
natural gas volumes declined by four per cent our exploration strategy is to focus on material opportunities, as the delivery of first gas from Macedon partially offset lower at high working interest, with a bias for liquids and operatorship.
demand at Bass Strait and natural field decline at Haynesville.
While the majority of our expenditure occurs in our two principal the average realised price of natural gas across our portfolio offshore areas of activity, the Gulf of Mexico and Western australia, increased by 16 per cent to uS$4.35 per thousand standard cubic we also have exploration activities in trinidad and tobago, Brazil, feet Mscf.
this included a 25 per cent increase in the average South africa, South east asia and onshore uS.
realised price of uS natural gas to uS$4.10 per Mscf.
this increase We then perform development evaluation activities to determine the was partially offset by a four per cent decline in the average realised technical feasibility and commercial viability of prospective projects price of oil to uS$102 per bbl, a one per cent decline in the average after exploration and appraisal.
realised price of lnG to uS$14.67 per Mscf and a seven per cent decline in the average realised price of natural gas liquids nGl More information on our development evaluation activities and exploration to uS$42.28 per barrel.
1 of this Annual Report underlying eBit for Petroleum decreased by uS$115 million to Description of the Potash Business uS$5.9 billion in FY2014.
Price-related increases, net of price-linked Jansen Potash Project costs, contributed uS$113 million to underlying eBit and volumes contributed an additional uS$994 million, although this was our Potash strategy is to build a material industry position over partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortisation the long term.
expense at onshore uS that reflected the ramp-up of liquids We hold exploration permits and mining leases, issued by the production and the progressive development of our Permian Government of Saskatchewan, covering more than 14,000 square acreage.
in this regard, our position within our focus area kilometres of mineral rights in the province of Saskatchewan in in the Permian increased by 25 per cent in the period to Canada.
We have progressively explored our permit areas over 74 thousand net acres.
the past seven years and continue to evaluate their economic additional charges were also recognised during the period, development potential.
We are converting our exploration permits to long-term leases as these permits mature in order to enable including: a uS$184 million impairment of minor Gulf of Mexico assets: a uS$143 million adjustment to the Browse divestment further evaluation.
to date, we have secured 4,400 square kilometres under long-term mining leases.
proceeds: and a uS$112 million uK pension plan expense.
the Group also incurred a charge of uS$135 million for We believe our Jansen Potash Project, a greenfield potash project underutilised gas pipeline capacity, primarily in the Haynesville.
in south-central Saskatchewan, is the worlds best undeveloped the onshore uS underlying eBit for FY2014 was a loss of potash resource and is likely to be a low-cost source of supply uS$156 million compared with a loss in FY2013 of uS$287 million.
investment in Jansen could underpin the onshore uS underlying eBitDa for FY2014 was uS$2.3 billion a potential fifth pillar of BHP Billiton, given the opportunity compared with uS$1.5 billion in FY2013.
Second half June 2014 to develop a multi-decade, multi-mine basin in Saskatchewan.
eBitDa increased by more than 60 per cent to uS$1.4 billion.
as a on 20 august 2013, we announced an additional uS$2.6 billion result, onshore uS generated an underlying eBit of uS$142 million investment for Jansen, bringing total approved spending to during the second half of FY2014.
this included the aforementioned uS$3.8 billion.
this investment is funding the excavation and underutilised gas pipeline capacity charges.
a six per cent lining of the Projects production and service shafts, and the reduction in unit costs in the second half of FY2014 contributed installation of surface infrastructure and utilities.
the level to this strong improvement in financial performance.
of expenditure on the Jansen Potash Project in FY2014 was uS$596 million.
36 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.2 Petroleum and Potash Business continued in FY2014, approximately 75 per cent of onshore uS drilling and Potash recorded an underlying eBit loss of uS$583 million.
development expenditure of uS$4.2 billion was invested in the this included: a uS$68 million impairment associated with eagle Ford, with the majority focused on our Black Hawk acreage.
our decision to allow the exclusivity agreement for terminal 5 the repetitive, manufacturing-like nature of shale development at the Port of Vancouver uS to lapse: and a uS$300 million is ideally suited to our productivity agenda.
Drilling costs in the charge related to the revision of mine site rehabilitation provisions Black Hawk declined by 16 per cent to uS$4.2 million per well during for the Groups north american closed mines, which are managed the period while spud to sales timing improved by 21 per cent.
in addition, exploration expense for Potash was uS$47 million, a uS$42 million reduction from FY2013.
of the 24 operated drilling rigs in action at the end of the period 30 June 2013: 40, 17 were in the eagle Ford 30 June 2013: 31, the Jansen Potash Project was 30 per cent complete at the four were in the Permian 30 June 2013: four, three were in end of the period with significant progress made on surface the Haynesville 30 June 2013: four, while no rigs were in the infrastructure and shaft excavation continuing.
Outlook a total of 138 net wells were put online in our prolific Black Hawk after adjusting for the sale of liverpool Bay, Petroleum production acreage during FY2014 FY2013: 66 net wells with an average is forecast to increase by five per cent in FY2015 to 255 MMboe 30-day initial production rate of 1,140 boe per day.
an average with another 16 MMboe increase in total liquids production one-year cumulative production rate per well of 208 thousand projected.
Conventional volumes for FY2015 are forecast to barrels of oil equivalent Mboe for the wells put online in FY2013 remain broadly unchanged.
reflected advances in completions optimisation and the benefit Petroleum capital expenditure of approximately uS$5.6 billion is of restricting initial flow rates.
at the end of the period we had planned in FY2015.
in our onshore uS asset we will continue to 284 net producing wells in the Black Hawk with an average prioritise investment in the liquids-focused eagle Ford and Permian rate of 82.4 Mboe per day achieved in the June 2014 quarter with up to 120 net wells expected to be put online in the Black 43.0 Mboe per day in the June 2013 quarter.
in our conventional business, we will remain focused on Petroleum exploration expenditure for FY2014 was uS$600 million, high-return infill drilling opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico and of which uS$369 million was expensed.
During the period, we signed life extension projects at Bass Strait and north West Shelf.
a production sharing contract for Block 23b 60 per cent interest and a uS$750 million exploration program, largely focused on the operator and farmed into Blocks 23a and 14 70 per cent interest Gulf of Mexico, Western australia and the collection of seismic and operator in trinidad and tobago.
data in trinidad and tobago is planned for FY2015.
During the period, we completed the divestment of our 46.1 per cent interest in liverpool Bay and our South Midland acreage in the Permian basin, onshore uS.
Combined proceeds of uS$182 million were realised before customary adjustments and a gain on sale of uS$116 million was recognised in underlying eBit.
Onshore US overview for FY2014 Liquids-focused areas Gas-focused areas Eagle Ford and Permian Haynesville and Fayetteville Total Year ended 30 June FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 Capital expenditure uS$ billion 3.6 3.8 0.6 0.9 4.2 4.7 Production MMboe 51.9 33.4 56.2 65.8 108.1 99.2 Production mix natural gas 36% 42% 100% 100% 69% 80% natural gas liquids 22% 23% 11% 8% Crude and condensate 42% 35% 20% 12% BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 37 37 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.3 Copper Business Pampa Norte Chile Pampa norte consists of two wholly owned operations in the atacama Desert in northern Chile Spence and Cerro Colorado.
During FY2014, Spence produced 152.8 kt of high-quality copper cathodes, using oxide and sulphide ore treatment through leaching, solvent extraction and electrowinning processes.
although production levels at Cerro Colorado have fallen in recent years as grades have declined, production in FY2014 reached 80.3 kt of copper cathode.
Spence and Cerro Colorado have reserve lives of 10 and nine years, respectively.
a project, currently being studied, referred to as the Spence Growth option SGo, is being conducted to consider exploiting the hypogene sulphide resource with associated molybdenum sulphide by building a 95 kilotonnes per day ktpd concentrator at the Spence operation.
Our Copper Business, headquartered in Santiago, Chile, SGo would extend the mine life by approximately 50 years following is one of the worlds premier producers of copper, silver, the current FY2025 closure date.
lead and uranium, and is a leading producer of zinc.
Antamina Peru We market five primary products: copper cathodes, We own 33.75 per cent of antamina, a large, long-life, low-cost copper, lead and zinc concentrates and uranium oxide.
copper and zinc mine in north central Peru.
our share of antaminas FY2014 production was 143.5 kt of copper in concentrate and 52.0 kt of zinc in concentrate.
antamina also produces molybdenum and lead bismuth concentrate, as well as small amounts of silver Results in the form of by-products.
antamina has a reserve life of 13 years.
in FY2014, antamina commenced execution of a debottlenecking 2014 2013 2012 project, to increase milling capacity by 12 per cent to 145 ktpd.
Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M Cannington Australia revenue 13,868 14,537 13,553 our wholly owned Cannington mine is one of the worlds largest underlying eBit 5,080 5,639 5,313 producers of silver and lead.
located in northwest Queensland, australia, the underground mine feeds a beneficiation processing Capital expenditure 3,757 3,930 3,518 facility that extracts silver lead and zinc concentrates from sulphide net operating assets 22,231 20,074 16,721 ore. in FY2014, Cannington produced concentrates containing 186.5 kt of lead, 57.9 kt of zinc and approximately 25.2 million Production copper kt 1,727 1,689 1,468 ounces of silver.
Cannington has a reserve life of nine years.
Olympic Dam Australia a summary of our Copper Business assets and operations, our wholly owned olympic Dam mine in South australia is a development projects and FY2014 performance is presented below.
producer of copper cathode and uranium oxide and a refiner of gold and silver bullion.
the site includes an underground mine, Description of the Copper Business where the primary method of ore extraction is long-hole open our assets consist of the following: stoping with cemented aggregate fill, and an integrated metallurgical Escondida Chile processing plant.
in FY2014, olympic Dam produced 184.4 kt of copper cathode, 4.0 kt of uranium oxide, 121.3 kilo-ounces koz our 57.5 per cent owned and operated escondida mine is the largest of refined gold and 972 koz of refined silver.
olympic Dam has producer of copper in the world.
located in the atacama Desert in a reserve life of 47 years.
northern Chile, escondida employs approximately 14,000 operational employees and contractors and has the capacity to move in excess a pre-feasibility study is being conducted into the proposed of 1.3 million tonnes Mt of material per day.
its two open-cut pits expansion of olympic Dam.
the objective of the study is to feed two concentrator plants, which use grinding and flotation identify the full range of development path alternatives for technologies to produce copper concentrate, as well as two olympic Dam by investigating all possible mining methods leaching operations oxide and sulphide.
in FY2014, our share and less capital-intensive designs, including new technologies.
of escondida production was 485.7 kilotonnes kt of payable in July 2014, we lodged an application for assessment by the copper in concentrate and 177.1 kt of copper cathode.
escondida australian and South australian Governments to construct and has a reserve life of 52 years.
operate a demonstration plant on the existing mining lease at olympic Dam.
this process would enable heap leaching trials to progress to the next phase as part of our efforts to identify an alternative, less capital-intensive process for extracting metals from ore mined underground.
Should government and Board approvals be granted, construction of the demonstration plant is expected to commence in the second half of CY2015.
a trial period of 36 months is envisaged, commencing in late 2016.
Divested asset Pinto Valley United States in october 2013, we completed the sale of our Pinto Valley mining operation and the associated San Manuel arizona railroad Company to Capstone Mining Corp. for uS$653 million, after working capital adjustments.
More information on our assets and operations is presented in section 2.1.
2 of this Annual Report 38 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.3 Copper Business continued underlying eBit for FY2014 decreased by uS$559 million to Development projects in execution at year-end uS$5.1 billion.
unit cash costs, which we calculate excluding Escondida revenue from by-products, at our operated copper assets declined the organic Growth Project 1 oGP1 is the replacement for the by six per cent during FY2014 despite the impact of the nine per cent los Colorados concentrator with a new 152 ktpd plant.
We expect reduction in ore grades at escondida.
in this context, productivity this project to provide additional processing capacity and allows cost efficiencies increased underlying eBit by uS$190 million and access to higher-grade ore. oGP1 was approved in February 2012 reflected insourcing initiatives and the broader optimisation of with budgeted expenditure of uS$3.8 billion BHP Billiton share contractor activities across the business.
a reduction in exploration uS$2.2 billion.
Project completion is targeted for the first half and business development expenditure increased underlying eBit of CY2015.
Work on oGP1 was 79 per cent complete at 30 June 2014. by a further uS$217 million as the Group sharpened its focus on We approved the escondida Water Supply eWS project in July 2013, greenfield copper porphyry targets in Chile and Peru.
in contrast, which consists of a new 2,500 litres per second sea water desalination an increase in non-cash charges reflected a lower capitalisation facility.
this project will provide an alternative water supply to rate for deferred stripping at escondida and Pampa norte, and escondida, as water usage increases upon completion of the 152 ktpd a general increase in depreciation and amortisation, and reduced oGP1 copper concentrator.
Construction of the new desalination underlying eBit by uS$337 million during the period.
facility commenced in July 2013 and includes the development underlying eBit of olympic Dam for FY2014 increased by of two pipelines, four high-pressure pump stations, a reservoir uS$38 million to uS$34 million, where costs efficiencies offset at the mine site and high-voltage infrastructure to support the the decrease in commodities prices.
the new facility is expected to be commissioned in 2017 at a cost of uS$3.4 billion BHP Billiton share uS$2.0 billion.
at 30 June 2014, the Group had 350 kt of outstanding copper sales that were revalued at a weighted average price of uS$3.19 per Prior to completion of the eWS project, water supply for oGP1 will continue to be sourced from existing aquifers and the pound.
the final price of these sales will be determined in FY2015.
in addition, 386 kt of copper sales from FY2013 were subject to 500 litres per second desalination plant.
these provisional pricing and the oxide leach area Project olaP involves the creation of a new finalisation adjustments increased underlying eBit by uS$73 million dynamic leaching pad and mineral handling system that will include in FY2014 FY2013: uS$303 million decrease.
the new pad is expected to maintain a gain on the sale of the Pinto Valley mining operation and the oxide leaching capacity at current levels following the exhaustion of the existing heap leach in CY2014.
olaP was approved in February associated San Manuel arizona railroad Company of uS$385 million after tax was recognised in FY2014 and was reported as an 2012 with budgeted expenditure of uS$721 million BHP Billiton share uS$414 million.
a uS$212 million increase in the budget of olaP to exceptional item.
uS$933 million BHP Billiton share uS$536 million was approved in Outlook March 2014.
Work on the project was 93 per cent complete at 30 June total copper production is forecast to increase by five per cent 2014, and is expected to be completed in the second half of CY2014.
With further improvements in productivity More information on our development projects is presented in anticipated, escondida is on track to produce approximately section 2.4 of this Annual Report 1.27 Mt of copper in the period.
Copper volumes at Pampa norte and olympic Dam are expected to remain at a similar level to Exploration activities FY2014, while lower average copper grades are expected to our greenfield copper exploration activities during FY2014 were lead to a reduction in copper production at antamina in FY2015, focused on advancing targets within Chile and Peru.
Greenfield consistent with the mine plan.
activities include opportunity identification, application for the commissioning of oGP1, which remains on schedule to commence and acquisition of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations in the June 2015 quarter, will create 152 ktpd of valuable copper and drilling programs.
the escondida olaP and oGP1 are expected to maintain escondidas copper production.
Performance total copper production in FY2014 increased by two per cent to 1.7 Mt.
escondida copper production increased by two per cent to 1.2 Mt as an improvement in mill throughput and concentrator utilisation offset a nine per cent decline in ore grades.
record mining rates at olympic Dam underpinned an 11 per cent increase in copper production to 184 kt while Pampa norte copper production of 233 kt was unchanged from the prior period.
antamina achieved record annual mill throughput and copper production in FY2014.
Copper revenue decreased by uS$669 million to uS$13.9 billion.
revenue for escondida decreased by six per cent to uS$8.1 billion.
the decrease in revenue primarily resulted from a five per cent decline in the average realised price of copper to uS$3.22 per pound.
lower average realised prices reduced underlying eBit by uS$947 million, net of price-linked costs.
in contrast, a stronger uS dollar against the Chilean peso and australian dollar increased underlying eBit by uS$359 million.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 39 39 Rail Line 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.4 Iron Ore Business maximise output through operating our mines and utilising available infrastructure at our disposal.
this includes our plan to continue to grow production following the recent completion of a number of expansion projects and ongoing debottlenecking of the supply chain to underpin further potential growth in capacity to 290 million tonnes per annum Mtpa.
We have expanded our Waio operations in response to increasing demand for iron ore, particularly from China.
Since 2001, we have completed eight expansion projects to increase our mine, rail and port capacity.
our share of FY2014 production was 193 Mt of ore, which is expected to increase in FY2015 to 211 Mtpa.
We have been transitioning to owner-operated mines since 2011.
We completed this transition with the last contractor run site, orebody 18, finalising its transition during FY2014.
Our Iron Ore Business, headquartered in Perth, Australia, is lump and fines products are sold to steel mills in China, South Korea, one of the leading iron ore producers in the world.
We sell Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, taiwan, Switzerland and australia, lump and fines products produced in Australia and pellets under long-term and short-term contracts.
Contract prices are from our operations in Brazil.
generally linked to market indices.
in order to establish a consistent, long-term, high-quality lump ore product having a stable grade, we recently transitioned to a Results blended lump product.
the product is a blend of lump ores produced from the newman, area C and Jimblebar mining areas, known as 2014 2013 2012 newman Blend lump.
During FY2014, 23 per cent of sales were lump Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M and 77 per cent were fines.
revenue 21,356 18,593 20,605 our Waio operations consist of four main joint ventures: Mt newman, Yandi, Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
our interest in the joint underlying eBit 12,102 11,109 14,044 ventures is 85 per cent with Mitsui and itoCHu owning the remaining Capital expenditure 2,949 5,979 4,458 15 per cent.
the joint ventures are unincorporated except Jimblebar, where we diluted our interest in a subsidiary company to 85 per cent net operating assets 23,390 22,126 17,375 in July 2013 for which BHP Billiton received total consideration of Production iron ore Mt 204 170 159 uS$1.5 billion.
the Mt newman Joint Venture consists of a number of orebodies a summary of our iron ore Business assets, development projects joined by conveyors and spur lines to a mining hub at Mt Whaleback.
and FY2014 performance is presented below.
ore is crushed, beneficiated where necessary and blended to create the newman Blend for lump and fines.
the ore is then transported Description of the Iron Ore Business to port using our rail facilities.
the Yandi JV comprises the Yandi mine our assets consist of the following: where ore is crushed and screened and then transported by rail on the newman main line.
the Mt Goldsworthy JV consists of the area Western Australia Iron Ore Australia C mine in the central Pilbara and the Yarrie mine in northern Pilbara.
operations at Western australia iron ore Waio involve an integrated ore is crushed and screened at area C and transported by rail to system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres of rail infrastructure the hub at Mt Whaleback.
Production at Yarrie was suspended and port facilities in the Pilbara region of northern Western australia, on 25 February 2014. the Jimblebar operation was officially opened with the headquarters located in Perth.
our focus is to safely on 23 april 2014 and comprises the new Jimblebar mine located 40 kilometres east of newman.
Jimblebar delivered first production Map of Western Australia Iron Ore in the September 2013 quarter and produced 9 Mt during FY2014.
our rail operations are controlled from Perth via our integrated Pilbara Region remote operations centre which co-locates rail control, port Perth production control, mine dispatch control and mine fixed plant control.
Port Hedland our port facilities are located on both sides of the harbour Nelson Point Finucane Island at Port Hedland.
these facilities consist of nelson Point and South Hedland Goldsworthy Karratha Finucane island.
the port facilities include five ore car dumpers, Yarrie three screening plants, nine stackers, five reclaimers, stock and Marble Bar Great blending yards, and eight ship loaders.
Northern Highway Port Hedland Newman Rail Line the reserve life of our Western australian mines is 16 years.
Samarco Brazil Chichester Deviation We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco operation in Brazil.
Samarco is currently comprised of a mine and Karijini National two concentrators, located in the state of Minas Gerais, and three Yandi Park Area C pellet plants and a port, located in anchieta in the state of espirito Orebody Santo.
three 396-kilometre pipelines connect the mine site to the 23 24 25 Orebody 18 pelletising facilities.
Jimblebar Note: Location of markers Mt Whaleback Newman Wheelarra is indicative only Orebody 29 30 35 Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
extraction and beneficiation of iron ore is conducted at the Germano facilities Existing Operations in the municipalities of Mariana and ouro Preto.
ore beneficiation Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Goldsworthy Rail Line occurs in concentrators after which concentrate is pumped through 40 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.4 Iron Ore Business continued slurry pipelines to the pellet plant in ubu, anchieta.
Pellets are Guinea Iron Ore independently marketed by Samarco and sold to steelmakers on 29 July 2014, we signed an agreement with arcelorMittal for in 20 countries in the americas, asia, africa, the Middle east and the sale of our 41.3 per cent interest in a joint venture that holds europe, with prices generally linked to market indices.
in FY2014, the nimba Mining Concession and four iron ore prospecting our share of production was 11 Mt of pellets.
the reserve permits in southeast Guinea.
Completion of the transaction life of Samarco is 39 years.
is subject to the receipt of regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions.
3 of this Annual Report Liberia Iron Ore We have a 100 per cent interest in a Mineral Development agreement Completed development projects with the Government of liberia.
this enables the further exploration Western Australia Iron Ore and development of our liberian iron ore mineral leases.
Waio has been executing a number of expansion projects Performance in recent years.
these projects, approved in March 2011 for a total of uS$7.4 billion BHP Billiton share uS$6.6 billion plus iron ore revenue increased by uS$2.8 billion to uS$21.4 billion.
pre-commitment funding of uS$2.3 billion BHP Billiton share revenue for Waio increased by uS$2.6 billion, an increase of uS$2.1 billion were designed to deliver an integrated operation 13.9 per cent.
an 18 per cent increase in Waio sales volumes was with a minimum capacity of 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
the major contributor, which was partially offset by a six per cent decline in average realised price of iron ore to uS$103 per wet these projects included: metric tonne FoB.
Jimblebar Mine expansion project to develop the Jimblebar mine and rail links, and procure mining equipment and rolling stock iron ore production increased by 20 per cent in FY2014 to a to deliver a capacity of 35 Mtpa.
the project costs as at 30 June record 204 Mt, exceeding initial full-year guidance by more than 2014 amounted to uS$3.4 billion BHP Billiton share : final costs eight per cent.
Waio production of 225 Mt 100 per cent basis are expected to be delivered below the revised budget of represents a fourteenth consecutive annual record and was uS$3.6 billion: underpinned by the early commissioning of Jimblebar and our productivity agenda, which raised the capacity of our integrated further development of Port Hedland, including two additional supply chain.
berths and ship loaders, a car dumper, connecting conveyor routes, and associated rail works and rolling stock.
the project underlying eBit for FY2014 increased by uS$993 million to costs as at 30 June 2014 amounted to uS$1.7 billion BHP Billiton uS$12.1 billion.
the fall in the average realised price of iron ore share : final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised reduced underlying eBit by uS$864 million, net of price-linked budget of uS$1.9 billion: costs, although this was partially offset by a weaker australian port blending facilities and rail yards to enable ore blending, dollar which increased underlying eBit by uS$383 million.
iron ore expand resource life and prepare for the anticipated growth sales, on average, were linked to the index price for the month of of the business beyond the inner harbour.
the project costs shipment, with price differentials reflecting product quality and the as at 30 June 2014 amounted to uS$0.9 billion BHP Billiton increase in Waio sales volumes, adding uS$1.8 billion to underlying share : final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised eBit.
Conversely, the progressive ramp-up of several major projects budget of uS$1.0 billion.
resulted in a uS$425 million increase in depreciation and amortisation expense during the period.
Having redirected the Waio supply-chain Western Australia Iron Ore Orebody 24 mine bottleneck away from the mines and back to the port, Waio unit in FY2014, Waio completed execution of its development of the costs decreased by six per cent in FY2014 to uS$27.53 per tonne.
orebody 24 mine, located approximately 10 kilometres northeast a 12 per cent reduction in unit costs to uS$25.89 per tonne was of newman.
orebody 24 is a sustaining mine to maintain iron ore achieved in the June 2014 half year.
production output from the Mt newman JV operations.
the project was approved in november 2011 and included the construction FY2014 FY2013 H1 FY2014 H2 FY2014 of an ore crushing plant, train loadout facility, rail spur and other WAIO unit costs US$M uS$M uS$M uS$M associated support facilities.
the project was delivered at a cost revenue 21,013 18,452 10,849 10,164 of uS$0.5 billion BHP Billiton share, subject to finalisation, in the September 2014 quarter versus a budget of uS$0.7 billion.
underlying eBitDa 12,988 11,668 6,801 6,187 Samarco Cash costs gross 8,025 6,784 4,048 3,977 During FY2011, Samarco shareholders approved a uS$3.5 billion less: freight 1,274 856 625 649 BHP Billiton share uS$1.75 billion expansion project, consisting of a fourth pellet plant, a new concentrator and a third slurry pipeline.
less: royalties 1,497 1,192 744 753 the project is complete, with its first pellet production in March Cash costs net 5,254 4,736 2,679 2,575 2014. this has expanded Samarcos iron ore pellet production capacity from 22.3 Mtpa to 30.5 Mtpa.
the final cost of the project Sales kt, BHP Billiton share 190,843 160,955 91,327 99,516 was uS$3.2 billion BHP Billiton share uS$1.6 billion.
Cash cost per tonne uS$ 27.53 29.42 29.33 25.89 More information on our development projects is presented in section 2.4 of this Annual Report Outlook in FY2015, Waio production is expected to increase by a further Exploration activities 20 Mt to approximately 245 Mt 100 per cent basis.
We expect Western Australia additional productivity gains to support another year of record Waio has a substantial existing reserve base supported by performance despite the planned tie-in of ship loaders 1 and 2 during the December 2014 half year.
total iron ore production considerable additional mineralisation all within a 250-kilometre radius of our existing infrastructure.
this concentration of orebodies is forecast to increase by 11 per cent in FY2015 to 225 Mt BHP Billiton share.
also gives Waio the flexibility to add growth tonnes to existing hub infrastructure and link brownfield developments to our existing our strategy includes expanding Jimblebar to 55 Mtpa 100 per cent mainline rail and port facilities.
the total area covered by basis as well as a broader debottlenecking of the supply chain, exploration and mining tenure amounts to 6,500 square kilometres.
which is expected to underpin further growth in Waio supply-chain total exploration expenditure in FY2014 amounted to uS$166 million.
capacity to 290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 41 41 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.5 Coal Business BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC is a subsidiary company owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
BMC owns and operates South Walker Creek and Poitrel open-cut metallurgical coal mines.
total production in FY2014 was 8.3 Mt.
the reserve lives of our mines are 15 years at Poitrel and 11 years at South Walker Creek.
Illawarra Coal Australia our wholly owned illawarra Coal asset owns and operates three underground coal mines appin, West Cliff and Dendrobium, in the illawarra region of new South Wales, australia.
the mines supply metallurgical coal to the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks and to other domestic and export markets.
the appin mine is currently being developed to sustain illawarra Coals production following the end of the mine life at West Cliff.
Our Coal Business, headquartered in Brisbane, Australia, Coal is exported via the Port Kembla Coal terminal, in which is the worlds largest supplier of seaborne metallurgical we own a 16.67 per cent interest.
total production in FY2014 coal, one of the worlds largest suppliers of seaborne was 7.5 Mt.
the reserve lives of our mines range from 2 years energy coal and a significant domestic energy coal at West Cliff to 25 years at appin.
supplier in the countries where our mines are located.
Energy Coal South Africa South Africa energy Coal South africa known as BeCSa operates four energy coal mines Khutala, Klipspruit, Middelburg and Wolvekrans, Results in the Witbank region in the province of Mpumalanga, South africa.
BeCSa is 90 per cent owned by BHP Billiton, two per cent owned 2014 2013 2012 by its employees through an employee Share ownership Plan Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M and eight per cent owned by a Broad-Based Black economic revenue 9,115 9,895 12,512 empowerment B-BBee consortium led by Pembani Group Proprietary limited.
underlying eBit 386 595 2,612 Production in FY2014 was 30.4 Mt.
the reserve lives of our mines Capital expenditure 2,345 3,626 3,103 range from 5.8 years at Khutala to 23 years at Middelburg.
net operating assets 14,300 13,225 10,663 New Mexico Coal United States Production We own and operate the San Juan energy coal mine located in the metallurgical coal Mt 45 38 33 uS state of new Mexico.
the mine transports its production directly to the nearby San Juan Generating Station.
the San Juan mine has Production a reserve life of 3.5 years, which is the life of the current customer energy coal Mt 73 72 74 contract.
We also operate the nearby navajo mine, located on navajo a summary of our Coal Business assets, development projects nation land in new Mexico.
Full ownership of the navajo and FY2014 performance is presented below.
Coal Company transferred to the navajo transitional energy Company nteC, an entity of the navajo nation, effective Description of the Coal Business 30 December 2013. new Mexico Coal and nteC have entered our assets comprise the following: into a Mine Management agreement where new Mexico Coal Queensland Coal Australia will continue as mine operator until 31 December 2016.
Queensland Coal comprises the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi alliance Map of Queensland Coal BMa and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC assets in the Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, australia.
Abbot Point Bowen the Bowen Basin is well positioned to supply the seaborne market because of its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are ideally suited to efficient blast furnace operations, and its geographical Collinsville proximity to asian customers.
We have access to key infrastructure in the Bowen Basin, including a modern, multi-user rail network, Mackay and our own coal loading terminal at Hay Point, located near the Dalrymple Bay Broadmeadow BMA Hay Point city of Mackay.
We also have contracted capacity at three other South Walker Coal Terminal Goonyella Creek multi-user port facilities including the Port of Gladstone rG tanna Riverside Coal terminal, Dalrymple Bay Coal terminal and abbot Point Daunia Moranbah Caval Ridge Coal terminal.
Poitrel Peak Downs Saraji BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMa owns and operates open-cut Dysart and underground metallurgical coal mines in the Bowen Basin, and Norwich Park also owns and operates the Hay Point Coal terminal.
We share RG Tanna Gregory Crinum 5050 ownership with Mitsubishi Development.
BMa operates Rockhampton Emerald the Goonyella riverside, Broadmeadow, Daunia, Caval ridge, Peak Blackwater Barney Point Downs, Saraji, Gregory Crinum and Blackwater mines.
First production Blackwater Gladstone commenced at Caval ridge in the June 2014 quarter.
our share of total production in FY2014 was 29.3 Mt.
the reserve lives of our mines range from 2.8 years at Gregory Crinum to 37 years at Saraji.
BMA Mine BMA Port Rail BMC Mine Port 42 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.5 Coal Business continued New South Wales Energy Coal Australia Appin Area 9 Project our wholly owned new South Wales energy Coal asset owns in June 2012, approval was given to invest uS$845 million to and operates the Mt arthur Coal open-cut energy coal mine sustain operations at illawarra Coal by establishing a replacement in the Hunter Valley region of new South Wales, australia.
mining area at appin mine.
the replacement area will have a production capacity of 3.5 Mtpa and will sustain illawarra Coals new South Wales energy Coal produced 20 Mt in FY2014 and production capacity at 9 Mtpa.
the appin area 9 Project was has a reserve life of 33 years.
67 per cent complete at 30 June 2014 and is expected to be Cerrejn Colombia operational in CY2016, whereupon it will replace production at the West Cliff mine.
the project includes roadway development, We have a one-third interest in Cerrejn Coal Company, which owns and operates one of the worlds largest open-cut export new ventilation infrastructure, new and reconfigured conveyors and other mine services.
energy coal mines, located in the la Guajira province of Colombia.
More information on our development projects is presented in FY2014, our share of Cerrejn production was approximately in section 2.4 of this Annual Report 12.3 Mt.
Cerrejn has a reserve life of 17 years.
More information on our assets and operations is presented Performance in section 2.1.
4 of this Annual Report Metallurgical coal production increased by 20 per cent in FY2014 Completed development projects to a record 45 Mt BHP Billiton share.
record production and sales volumes at Queensland Coal reflected strong performance across BMA Expansions all operations.
this included first production from Caval ridge, in november 2011, we approved the development of the Caval the successful ramp-up of Daunia and record production at Peak ridge mine project, with a revised investment of uS$1.9 billion Downs, Saraji, South Walker Creek and Poitrel.
illawarra Coal BHP Billiton share.
the Caval ridge mine is an open-cut dragline production declined by five per cent as an extended outage at the and truck and shovel operation, with coal railed to the Hay Point Dendrobium mine impacted performance in the first half of FY2014.
First coal at the Caval ridge mine occurred in the June 2014 quarter and the mine was 100 per cent completed energy coal production of 73 Mt for FY2014 was broadly unchanged at 30 June 2014. from the prior period.
another year of robust performance was underpinned by a fifth consecutive annual production record Cerrejn P40 Project at new South Wales energy Coal and record volumes at Cerrejn.
in august 2011, we announced a uS$437 million BHP Billiton share extended outages at both a local utility and the richards Bay Coal investment in the expansion of Cerrejn, known as the P40 Project, terminal led to lower production at energy Coal South africa, while which is expected to enable Cerrejns thermal coal production navajo Coal production declined following the permanent closure to increase by 8 Mtpa to approximately 40 Mtpa.
the project of three of the five power units at the Four Corners Power Plant.
scope includes a second berth and dual quadrant ship loader at Coal revenue for FY2014 decreased by uS$780 million to Cerrejns 100 per cent owned and operated Puerto Bolivar, along uS$9.1 billion.
revenue for illawarra decreased by 31 per cent to with necessary mine, rail and associated supply chain infrastructure.
uS$886 million and revenues for new South Wales energy Coal and Construction commenced in CY2011 and the project handled its first energy Coal South africa also decreased: this was partially offset coal in the December 2013 quarter.
the port expansion associated by an increase in revenues for Queensland Coal of five per cent to with the Cerrejn P40 project is currently being commissioned, uS$4.7 billion.
the decrease in revenues was driven by a 20 per cent although operational issues are expected to constrain capacity reduction in the average price for hard coking coal and 14 per cent to approximately to 35 Mtpa 100 per cent basis in the medium reduction in the average price received for both weak coking coal term.
at 30 June 2014, the project was 94 per cent complete.
Newcastle Port Third Phase Expansion underlying eBit for FY2014 declined by uS$209 million to in august 2011, we announced a uS$367 million BHP Billiton share uS$386 million despite productivity volume and cost efficiencies investment in the third stage development of the newcastle Coal of uS$1.3 billion being embedded during the period.
infrastructure Groups coal handling facility in newcastle.
the port expansion project is expected to increase total capacity a stronger uS dollar against both the australian dollar and at the coal terminal from 53 Mtpa to 66 Mtpa.
this is expected South african rand increased underlying eBit by uS$543 million.
to increase new South Wales energy Coals allocation by 4.6 Mtpa this was more than offset by the reduction in the average price, to 19.2 Mtpa.
First coal on ship, being the first ship loading through which in total, reduced underlying eBit by uS$1.4 billion, net the new facility, was achieved in June 2013, ahead of schedule.
at 30 June 2014, the project was 86 per cent complete.
a sustainable increase in truck and wash plant utilisation rates underpinned the improvement in productivity while a reduction Development projects in execution in labour, contractor and maintenance costs was also achieved.
BMA Expansions in this context, redundancies totalling uS$40 million were in March 2011, we approved the expansion of the Hay Point Coal recognised in FY2014 while an increase in non-cash charges reduced terminal.
the expansion of the terminal will deliver an additional underlying eBit by a further uS$497 million.
the latter included 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis.
Following a a uS$292 million impairment charge at energy Coal South africa.
review of the project during FY2013, first shipment is expected in a uS$84 million gain on the sale of the energy Coal South africa CY2015 with a revised budget of uS$1.5 billion BHP Billiton share.
optimum Coal purchase agreement was also recognised during the project was 87 per cent complete at 30 June 2014. the period.
Outlook Metallurgical coal production for FY2015 is expected to increase by four per cent to approximately 47 Mt as the ramp-up of Caval ridge is completed.
energy coal production for FY2015 is expected to remain broadly unchanged at 73 Mt.
as we will retain control of the navajo mine until full consideration is received from nteC, production and financial results for the navajo mine will continue to be reported by the Group.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 43 43 1 Strategic report continued 1.12.6 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Mozal Mozambique We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium smelter located near Maputo, Mozambique.
Mozal sources power generated by Hydro Cahora Basa via Motraco, a transmission joint venture between eskom and the national electricity utilities of Mozambique and Swaziland.
our share of Mozals FY2014 production was 266 kt.
Alumar Brazil alumar is an integrated alumina refinery aluminium smelter.
We own 36 per cent of the alumar refinery and 40 per cent of the smelter.
the operations, and their integrated port facility, are located at So lus in the Maranho province of Brazil.
the alumar smelter has currently suspended production from pot lines 2 and 3 reducing overall annual capacity to 124 kilotonnes Our Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business, per annum ktpa, from 447 ktpa 100 per cent, due to challenging headquartered in Perth, Australia, is one of the worlds global market conditions in primary aluminium and increased costs.
largest integrated producers of aluminium, nickel and our share of alumars FY2014 saleable production was 1.3 Mt manganese ore and alloy.
of alumina and 104 kt of aluminium.
HMM South Africa We own a 44.4 per cent interest in Hotazel Manganese Mines Results HMM, which owns the Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels underground mine.
in FY2014, the total manganese ore production 2014 2013 2012 was 3,526 kt.
Wessels has a reserve life of 46 years and Mamatwan Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M has a reserve life of 18 years.
revenue 8,411 9,278 9,911 GEMCO Australia underlying eBit 307 158 24 our 60 per cent owned and operated GeMCo operation is an open-cut mining operation, located 16 kilometres from our port Capital expenditure 498 893 1,941 facilities at Milner Bay, northern territory.
these operations, net operating assets 9,322 8,809 13,127 consisting of crushing, screening, washing and dense media separation, combined with its high-grade ore are in relative Production alumina kt 5,178 4,880 4,152 close proximity to the asian export markets.
FY2014 production Production aluminium kt 1,174 1,179 1,153 of manganese ore was 4,776 kt.
GeMCo has a reserve life of 11 years.
Production manganese ores kt 8,302 8,517 7,931 Metalloys South Africa our 60 per cent owned and operated Samancor Manganese Production Metalloys alloy plant, located in Meyerton, is one of the largest manganese alloys kt 646 608 602 manganese alloy producers in the world.
Metalloys produces Production nickel kt 143 154 158 highand medium-carbon ferromanganese.
Production of manganese alloy in FY2014 was 377 kt.
a summary of our aluminium, Manganese and nickel Business TEMCO Australia assets, development projects and FY2014 performance is our 60 per cent owned and operated teMCo operation, presented below.
located in tasmania, is a medium-sized producer of high-carbon ferromanganese, silicomanganese and sinter using ore shipped Description of the Aluminium, Manganese from GeMCo, primarily using hydroelectric power.
Production of and Nickel Business manganese alloy in FY2014 was 269 kt.
our assets include the following: Nickel West Australia Boddington Worsley Australia our wholly owned nickel West asset, in Western australia, consists Boddington Worsley is an integrated bauxite mining alumina of an integrated system of mines, concentrators, a smelter and refining operation located in Western australia.
nickel West production in FY2014 was 98.9 kt of bauxite mine supplies bauxite ore to the Worsley alumina refinery contained nickel.
on 31 october 2013, production at the nickel West via a 51-kilometre long conveying system.
We own 86 per cent leinster Perseverance underground mine was suspended following of the mine and the refinery.
our share of Worsleys FY2014 a significant seismic event.
a subsequent review of the incident production was 3.9 Mt of alumina.
Boddington has a reserve determined it was unsafe to resume operations.
Cerro Matoso Colombia Hillside and Bayside South Africa our 99.98 per cent owned Cerro Matoso asset in Colombia our wholly owned Hillside and Bayside aluminium smelters are combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a ferronickel smelter.
located at richards Bay in South africa.
Hillside is the largest the smelter produces high-purity, low-carbon ferronickel granules.
aluminium smelter in the southern hemisphere.
in June 2014, Cerro Matoso has an estimated reserve life of 15 years.
Production Bayside completed the ramp-down of its remaining smelting in FY2014 was 44.3 kt of nickel in ferronickel form.
the Bayside Casthouse continues to More information on our assets and operations is presented operate and began processing liquid metal transfers from Hillside in section 2.1.
5 of this Annual Report in June 2014.
Production in FY2014 for Hillside was 715 kt and Bayside was 89 kt.
44 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.12.6 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business continued notwithstanding a rebound in nickel and aluminium prices in Development projects the second half, lower average realised prices reduced underlying GEMCO expansion eBit by uS$409 million during FY2014, net of price-linked costs.
the uS$279 million GeMCo expansion Project GeeP2 BHP Billiton More specifically, lower average realised prices for aluminium share uS$167 million, approved in July 2011, was delivered on time down six per cent to uS$2,022 per tonne, manganese ore down and on budget in the December 2013 quarter.
GeeP2 increased four per cent to uS$4.64 per dry metric tonne unit, manganese GeMCos capacity from 4.2 Mtpa to 4.8 Mtpa through the alloy down six per cent to uS$980 per tonne and nickel down introduction of a dense media circuit by-pass facility.
the expansion seven per cent to uS$14,925 per tonne were only partially has also addressed key infrastructure constraints by increasing offset by an increase in the average realised price of alumina road and port capacity to 5.9 Mtpa, creating 1.1 Mtpa of additional up two per cent to uS$307 per tonne.
underlying eBit for FY2014 increased by uS$149 million to More information on our development projects is presented uS$307 million.
a reduction in headcount and consumable costs, in section 2.4 of this Annual Report as well as equipment debottlenecking at most assets, contributed to the uS$335 million of productivity cost efficiencies embedded Performance during the period.
a stronger uS dollar against both the australian aluminium, Manganese and nickel revenues decreased by dollar and South african rand increased underlying eBit by a uS$867 million to uS$8.4 billion.
revenue for Cerro Matoso further uS$469 million.
in contrast, the cessation of aluminium decreased by 25.9 per cent to uS$595 million, driven by a decline smelting activities at Bayside uS$167 million and costs associated in nickel prices by seven per cent and lower production.
Production with the closure of the Perseverance underground mine at nickel at Cerro Matoso was affected by kiln and furnace outages, and West uS$174 million contributed to a decrease in underlying eBit lower nickel grades.
aluminium revenues decreased by 8.5 per cent of uS$341 million.
to uS$2.4 billion primarily due to lower average realised prices in May 2014, the Group announced a review of the nickel West which declined by six per cent.
business, comprising the Mt Keith, Cliffs and leinster mines, alumina production increased by six per cent in FY2014 to a record its concentrators, the Kalgoorlie smelter and the Kwinana refinery.
the efficiency and Growth project at Worsley reached the review is considering all options for the long-term future nameplate capacity during the year and annual production records of nickel West, including the potential sale of all or part of were achieved at both the Worsley and alumar refineries.
production of 1.2 Mt was unchanged from FY2013 with production Outlook records at both Hillside and Mozal offset by lower volumes at Saleable nickel production at nickel West is expected to decline by alumar following the phased suspension of 103 kt BHP Billiton four per cent in FY2015 to 95 kt with approximately 55 per cent to share of annualised capacity.
be sourced from third party feed.
Ferro-nickel production at Cerro Manganese ore production declined by three per cent in FY2014 Matoso is expected to decline by three per cent to 43 kt as a result to 8.3 Mt as GeMCo was affected by higher than usual rainfall of lower grades.
Manganese alloy production increased in contemplation of the proposed demerger, BHP Billiton and by six per cent in FY2014 compared to FY2013, which was anglo american have agreed to make certain changes to the affected by the temporary suspension of operations at teMCo.
agreement which governs their interests in the Manganese business.
nickel production declined by seven per cent in FY2014 to 143 kt.
BHP Billiton manages and owns 60 per cent of the Manganese Production at Cerro Matoso was affected by kiln and furnace business with anglo american owning the remaining 40 per cent.
outages, and lower nickel grades.
nickel West production declined Subject to obtaining the required approvals for the agreement, by four per cent following the closure of the Perseverance the changes will result in BHP Billiton and anglo american agreeing underground mine in november 2013. to share joint control of the Manganese business.
as a result, we will discontinue consolidation of the Manganese business and account for our 60 per cent interest as an equity accounted joint venture.
We will therefore derecognise the existing carrying amounts of all assets, liabilities and the non-controlling interest in the Manganese business attributed to anglo american and initially record our retained 60 per cent interest at fair value.
the remeasurement at fair value will give rise to an estimated gain of approximately uS$2 billion in the first half of FY2015.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 45 45 1 Strategic report continued 1.13 Our people People are the foundation of our organisation and underpin our success.
We value our people and encourage the development of talented and motivated employees to support the continued performance and growth of our diverse operations.
We strive to build a sense of purpose and achievement among all our people in the work we do.
1.13.1 Employees and contractors By working to Our Charter we align our people around our common on 1 July 2013 the Group adopted iFrS 10 and iFrS 11. this led purpose and values.
Our Charter provides a vital reference point for to the full consolidation of escondida employees previously how we do business, wherever we are in the world, and whatever proportionately consolidated and the exclusion of certain equity work we do.
accounted entities including Samarco, antamina and Cerrejn.
the comparative periods have been restated on this basis.
the table below provides the average number of employees and contractors over the last three financial years.
the table below provides a breakdown of our average number of employees by Business for each of the last three financial years.
aluminium, Manganese and nickel 10,775 11,115 11,388 Group Functions, Marketing Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 and unallocated 1,639 1,770 1,948 Male employees 39,517 38,920 35,888 Total 47,044 46,892 43,238 Female employees 7,527 7,972 7,350 the table below provides a breakdown of our average number Female employees per cent 16 17 17 a of employees by geographic region for each of the last three Male senior leaders 317 326 365 financial years.
a Female senior leaders 55 40 41 Female senior leaders per cent 15 11 10 Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 Male Board members 12 11 11 africa 9,035 9,121 9,358 Female Board members 2 2 2 asia 1,105 1,183 1,114 Female Board members per cent 14 15 15 australasia 23,048 21,977 19,305 a For uK law purposes, we are required to show information for senior europe 146 231 532 managers which is defined to include both senior leaders and any persons north america 4,373 5,116 4,117 who are directors of any subsidiary company even if they are not senior leaders.
in FY2014, senior leaders comprise the top 372 people in the South america 9,337 9,264 8,812 organisation.
there are 33 directors of subsidiary companies who are not senior leaders, comprising 23 males and 10 females.
therefore, for uK law Total 47,044 46,892 43,238 purposes, the total number of senior managers is 340 males and 65 females 16 per cent female.
the increase in australasian headcount during FY2014 is primarily the tables below provide a breakdown of the weighted average due to the increase in the iron ore Business as a result of the number of employees across the Group, in accordance with expansion of the Jimblebar operations and additional support our reporting requirements under the uK Companies act 2006. required in non-process infrastructure and port and rail operations.
the calculation includes the executive Director, 100 per cent the Coal Business also experienced an increase as a result of the of employees of subsidiary companies, and our share of joint addition of the Daunia and Caval ridge workforce.
the decreased operations, for each of the past three financial years.
employees headcount in europe occurred with the closure of offices in the Hague of equity accounted entities are not included.
Part-time employees and antwerp, and in north america with the sale of the diamonds are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
employees of business and sale of the Pinto Valley mining operation.
For further businesses acquired or disposed of during a particular year are information regarding these sales, refer to sections 1.15.3 and 2.1.
2 included for the period of ownership.
46 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.13.2 Employee policies and engagement We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships participants in Shareplus.
the Shareplus employee plan is described with our employees.
at BHP Billiton, we recognise the most in section 4.4.
Short-term and long-term important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated incentive schemes also operate across the Group.
rewards for workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are eligible individuals are predicated on the need to meet targets aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
relating to the Groups performance in areas such as health, safety and achievement of financial measures and on the personal We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, retain performance of each employee.
our approach is outlined in Our Charter, the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and the Group level our performance management process aligns individual Documents GlDs that prescribe what we will do and how we will do performance and behaviour to Our Charter and our strategic and it.
all of these documents are published and accessible to employees.
operational priorities as well as working to ensure individual and team performance is recognised.
our leaders are accountable for effective communication and employee engagement is critical for providing feedback and coaching and identifying development maintaining open and productive relationships between leaders needs to help our employees maximise their performance and and employees.
employees receive communication on BHP Billiton realise their full potential.
in FY2014, 74 per cent of employees goals and performance, as well as on other important issues such participated in a formal performance review process.
Due to as health and safety and the environment and the Code of Business industrial agreements, not all employees are able to participate Conduct.
our Code of Business Conduct is founded on Our Charter in individual performance or reward programs.
the importance values, which make an unqualified commitment to working with we place on employee development and training is demonstrated integrity.
Communication is undertaken through a variety of channels, by the significant amount of training our employees undertake.
including the internet, intranet, email, newsletters and other means designed to cater for the local environment.
our employees can BHP Billiton is committed to building and maintaining a diverse access our annual reports either via the internet or hard copy.
workforce and providing a work environment in which every employee Communications tools are also used to facilitate employee feedback, is treated fairly and with respect.
We work actively to avoid as are a variety of consultative processes.
Dispute and grievance discrimination on any basis, including disability.
Where an employee handling processes are also in place to assist in equitably addressing suffers some disability while they are employed, we work to identify workplace issues across the organisation.
a business conduct roles that meet their skill, experience and capability, and in some advisory service, ethicsPoint, operates worldwide to allow concerns cases offer retraining.
We also offer flexible work practices, where to be raised about conduct that is out of step with Our Charter this is possible, taking into account the needs of the employee and values, our policies and procedures or legislation.
those of the particular workplace.
the employment packages under our remuneration policy, which must comply with local regulations, our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available to are aligned to our business requirements and are designed to be all permanent full-time and part-time employees, and those on sufficiently attractive to recruit and retain the best people.
fixed-term contracts, except where local regulations limit operation of the scheme.
in these instances, alternative arrangements are in place.
as at 30 June 2014, 27,401 employees, or approximately 53.1 per cent of those eligible for the april 2014 offer, were 1.13.3 Diversity and inclusion at BHP Billiton Our Charter and GlDs guide all aspects of our management, Principles that underpin our approach to diversity and inclusion: including diversity and inclusion.
a diverse workforce and an inclusive environment are necessary to the delivery of our strategy that is predicated on diversification our GlDs are underpinned by principles that guide our approach by commodity, geography and market: to diversity and inclusion.
our GMC and the Board believe that a We aspire to have a workforce that best represents the communities diverse workforce and inclusive work environment where the unique in which our assets are located and our employees live: skills, experiences and perspectives of our people are embraced is pivotal to sustaining performance and increasing productivity.
actions that support our diversity and inclusion objectives the Board approves the Groups diversity and inclusion measurable should be consistent with our established approach to talent, objectives for each financial year and monitors its progress.
in relation performance and reward: to gender, they have set a goal of increasing the number of women achieving an appropriate level of diversity will require structured on the Board.
Further details are set out below.
programs to support employees from an early career stage in developing the necessary skills and experiences for leadership roles: creating an inclusive work environment will require every employee and leader to embrace diversity and act in a way that is consistent with Our Charter: measurable objectives in support of diversity and inclusion will be transparent, fit for purpose and focus on i engaging, enabling and developing our workforce and ii establishing appropriate representation goals.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 47 47 1 Strategic report continued 1.13.3 Diversity and inclusion at BHP Billiton continued Progress against measurable objectives Progress against our FY2014 commitments is set out below.
Each Business, Group Function and Marketing will be evaluated on progress in executing the measurable objectives that form part of its multi-year diversity plan.
the performance of each Business, Group Function and Marketing was evaluated as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
results were taken into account in determining variable remuneration.
Execute the diversity and inclusion strategy and actions approved by the GMC.
our Ceo and management teams reinforced our commitment to diversity and inclusion through internal and external communication channels including town hall meetings, surveys and participation in industry events.
Senior leaders mentored and held talent development conversations with high potential females, females in our graduate program and ethnically diverse talent.
Specific actions were captured as part of their development plans.
employees perceived level of inclusion in their teams was measured as part of the employee survey.
results, together with tools to assist action planning were cascaded to business leaders and line managers.
actions to increase representation of indigenous people in our workforce included targeted resourcing strategies, training programs and integration initiatives to broaden employment opportunities.
Female representation increased i seven percentage points in senior leadership roles to 15 per cent and ii one percentage point in our overall workforce representation to 16 per cent from our baseline in 2010.
We remain committed to increasing overall female representation, with a specific focus on operational areas.
Increase female representation by one in each asset and operations leadership team by end of FY2015 where the business leadership team comprises less than 50 per cent females.
Female representation increased nine percentage points in operational leadership teams from last year.
Develop recommendations for providing childcare options and flexible work arrangements.
Flexible work recommendations are being piloted in different locations.
Childcare options remain a focus for FY2015.
Increase the proportion of female and Indigenous graduates hired and retained year on year.
representation of females in our graduate intake increased three percentage points at a global level and six percentage points in australia from last year.
indigenous australian representation increased three percentage points.
retention of female graduates that have commenced since 2011 remains stable at 93 per cent.
Maintain at least a 30 per cent female participation in our Accelerated Leadership Development Program ALDP.
Female representation in our alDP cohort remains at 41 per cent.
Continuous improvement in FY2015, we will continue focusing on creating work environments of greater inclusion and enhancing our gender and diversity profile.
We will take the following steps to deliver against this commitment: 1.
Demonstrate progress against our diversity and inclusion plan to improve our gender and ethnicity profile and increase female representation year on year: 2.
Demonstrate improvement in creating a work environment of inclusion, as measured by our employee survey.
each Business, Group Function and Marketing will continue to be evaluated on progress against their multi-year diversity and inclusion plan.
Successful completion will be taken into account in determining bonus remuneration and tracked as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
48 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.14 Sustainability Our Charter value of Sustainability is core to our strategy and we integrate health, safety, environmental, social and economic factors into our decision-making.
Maintaining our licence to operate as a global company is dependent upon gaining access to natural resources and ensuring we earn the trust of our shareholders, employees, contractors, communities, customers and suppliers.
our approach to sustainability reflects our priority to put health and 1.14.1 Identifying our sustainability issues safety first, be environmentally responsible and provide support to to deliver successfully on our strategy, we must identify and our host communities.
in reporting our sustainability performance, respond to the sustainability issues that have a direct or indirect we include our impact on the environment and approach to climate impact on our business, to our stakeholders and society at large.
change, water stewardship, resource conservation and biodiversity: using a materiality assessment process, we identified and prioritised and our efforts to ensure the broader economic contributions material sustainability issues included in this annual report and of our operations benefit the regions in which we operate.
the Sustainability report 2014. the following issues are discussed the information contained in this section, unless otherwise stated, in this annual report: covers assets that have been wholly owned and operated by BHP Billiton or that have been operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation operated assets for FY2014.
Governance Health and safety Environment Society Governance and sustainability Keeping our people and energy and greenhouse Supporting and engaging operations safe gas management with our communities identifying and managing our material risks Focusing on the health Biodiversity and land Free, prior informed consent of our people management operating with integrity respecting human rights and conducting business Water stewardship Making a positive transparently responsibly managing contribution to society addressing climate change hydraulic fracturing additional information relating to our sustainability performance for FY2014 is available in our Sustainability report 2014 and can be found online at BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 49 49 1 Strategic report continued 1.14.2 Governance Governance and sustainability Business Conduct prohibit bribery and corruption in all our business dealings.
Particulars in relation to the Code of Business Conduct and our Board governs the Group in a manner consistent with anti-corruption are referred to in section 3.17 of this annual report.
Our Charter values, our strategy and our commitment to a transparent Specific discussion on legal proceedings is available in section 6 and high-quality governance system.
the Board has established of this annual report.
a number of committees to assist it in exercising its authority and to monitor the performance of the Group.
the Sustainability Transparently reporting our payments to governments Committee assists the Board in oversight of health, safety, We believe that transparency of government revenue from the environment, community and climate change matters.
this includes extraction of natural resources is an important element in the overseeing areas relating to risk control, compliance with applicable fight against corruption.
BHP Billiton has been a supporter of the legal and regulatory requirements and overall health, safety, extractive industries transparency initiative eiti since its inception environment and community HSeC performance of the Group.
in 2002 and we continue to engage actively with eiti processes in the Board delegates authority to the Ceo to manage the Group countries where we operate.
in line with our support for the eiti, in its pursuit of creating long-term shareholder value through we have reported in the Sustainability report 2014, payments the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural of taxes and royalties derived from resource developments on a resources.
established by the Ceo, the GMC is the Groups most country-by-country basis.
our payments to governments in FY2014 senior executive body.
the GMCs purpose is to provide leadership included uS$9.9 billion in company taxes, royalties and certain to the Group, determining its priorities and the way it is to operate, indirect taxes and approximately uS$1.5 billion in taxes collected thereby assisting the Ceo in pursuing the corporate purpose.
the GMC on behalf of employees.
More than 99 per cent of our payments is a forum to debate high-level matters important to the Group and were made to 14 countries.
of these, our largest payments are to ensure consistent development of the Groups strategy.
made in australia, where we have the majority of our assets.
to link HSeC matters to remuneration, 20 per cent of the FY2014 Sustainability in our supply chain short-term incentive opportunity for GMC members was based on as a global organisation, we understand our responsibility to ensure HSeC performance.
this was an increase from 15 per cent in FY2013, we only engage with suppliers who have responsible and ethical reflecting the importance the Board and GMC place on sustainability.
relationships with our partner suppliers are the Sustainability Committee assists the remuneration Committee managed in accordance with relevant contractual arrangements, in determining appropriate HSeC metrics to be included in GMC Our Charter, our Code of Business Conduct, our Anti-corruption GlD scorecards and in assessing performance against those measures.
the Board also has discretion over both the short-term and to identify sustainability risks across our supply chain, we use a long-term incentive opportunities for GMC members and takes risk-based approach within our Supply Source to Contract GlD into consideration HSeC performance.
to support our suppliers alignment with our HSeC and business Identifying and managing our material risks conduct requirements.
these requirements include zero tolerance in addition to the legal requirements of the countries in which of a number of human rights infringements including child labour, we operate, our approach to sustainability risks is defined by inhumane treatment of employees and forced or compulsory labour.
our HSeC-related Group level Documents GlDs.
these clearly our suppliers are also required to adopt an open attitude towards describe our mandatory minimum performance requirements legitimate activities of trade unions.
and accountabilities across the Group and are the foundation for Contracted suppliers are assessed on a matrix for commercial developing and implementing management systems at our operations.
dependency versus supplier risk and assigned a tiered segmentation.
our HSeC-related GlDs outline our approach to the Groups material a procedure to engage with each supplier is developed appropriate sustainability risks and highlight a commitment to international to the level of risk.
policies, standards and management practices.
these include the Closure planning principles and mandatory requirements of the position statements Closure planning is a key consideration in the planning and of the international Council on Mining and Metals iCMM development of our projects and operations.
We recognise the Sustainable Development Framework, the united nations un significant risks associated with poorly managed closure activities Global Compact, the un Declaration of Human rights and the and seek to minimise these throughout the life cycle of our operations.
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human rights.
in line with our Corporation Alignment Planning GlD, our operations We seek to ensure our customers, suppliers, agents, service providers are required to develop and maintain closure plans that address the and contractors maintain business practices and workplaces that details of rehabilitation activities for disturbed land, remediation are aligned with our GlDs.
We also provide GlD performance requirements for contaminated land, and end uses for land and requirements to our non-operated assets and seek to influence infrastructure.
Closure plans are also required to include community the asset to follow these requirements.
livelihood opportunities post-closure, design and engineering specifications for structures remaining at closure and human our Risk Management GlD provides the framework for embedding resource strategies addressing retention and transition opportunities risk identification and management into our business activities, for employees.
in addition, we require closure plans to be developed functions and processes.
this is the basis of an active and consistent as part of our major capital investments to ensure we understand risk-based approach to sustainability.
We identify risks we consider potential closure liabilities and have the opportunity to reduce them material to our organisation and take into consideration the during the design stage.
the closure plans provide the basis for potential health, safety, environmental, community, reputational, estimating the closure costs and the associated accounting for legal and financial impacts.
the severity of any particular risk closure and rehabilitation obligations.
information on these is assessed according to the most severe impact associated with provisions can be found in note 18 Provisions to the Financial a specific risk.
the objectives of the risk management process Statements in our annual report 2014. are to understand the nature and residual impact of the material risks for the Group and to ensure they are managed through the an ongoing internal closure planning audit program, established verification and effectiveness testing of critical controls.
information in FY2011, tests the effectiveness of the controls detailed in our relating to the material risks for the Group, including sustainability Corporation Alignment Planning GlD.
Findings from these audits risks, is available in section 1.7 of this annual report.
are reported to the relevant Business Presidents, while summary reports are considered by the Sustainability Committee of the Board.
Operating with integrity and conducting business transparently During FY2014, 10 audits were conducted and, where required, to maintain our position as one of the worlds leading companies, improvements to the closure plan or provisions were implemented.
we are committed to ethical business practices and high levels of governance in all our dealings.
regardless of the country or culture within which our people work, our Anti-corruption GlD and Code of 50 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.14.2 Governance continued Addressing climate change The global challenge addressing climate change is a Board governance and strategic our diverse portfolio is important in meeting global demand issue.
Successful implementation of our strategy requires us to for energy.
We will continue to adjust the shape of our portfolio sustainably develop our asset portfolio to deliver superior long-term to match energy and commodity demand and meet societys shareholder returns.
expectations while maximising shareholder returns.
Climate change governance our approach to investment decision-making and portfolio management ensures that climate change risks are identified, We recognise our responsibility to take action by focusing on assessed and appropriately addressed.
We have been applying an reducing our emissions, increasing our preparedness for physical internal price on carbon in our investment decisions and portfolio climate impacts and working with others, including our industry evaluation for more than a decade and were early adopters of this and governments, to enhance the global response to climate approach.
We maintain a view on carbon pricing using a carbon change.
to effectively address the challenge of climate change, price protocol which we update regularly.
our carbon price protocol there must be significant focus on developing and deploying tracks the progress of national commitments to tackle climate low-emissions technologies.
We will, through material investments change throughout the world, including our major operating regions in low-emissions technology, contribute to reducing emissions and customer demand centres, and considers various potential from fossil fuels.
scenarios for how global emissions and policy will evolve over time.
there is uncertainty around the physical impacts of climate change We look at the potential for reductions in emissions and the cost and how the world will respond to these impacts or seek to mitigate associated with those reductions to determine an appropriate price climate change.
in light of this, our investment decisions are level for each relevant country or region.
in doing so, we consider informed by a comprehensive understanding of a range of possible the effectiveness of different policies, political situations required to climate change outcomes and the associated risks and opportunities pass legislation, timing to implement reductions and the interaction to delivering shareholder value.
We use a broad range of scenarios between policy mechanisms.
that consider critical global uncertainties e. g. macroeconomic and through a comprehensive and strategic approach to corporate geopolitical and their impacts on supply and demand assumptions planning, we work with a broad range of scenarios to assess our to test our portfolio and investment decision-making.
portfolio, including consideration of a range of policy responses our approach to addressing climate change is to identify emerging to and impacts from climate change.
our work suggests that trends, develop strategies, coordinate activity across the Businesses BHP Billitons portfolio diversification provides resilience to our and report our performance externally.
our GMC has primary overall asset valuation.
the diversity of our overall portfolio, which responsibility for the design and implementation of an effective includes energy oil, coal and uranium and minerals including position and response to climate change, and accountability for copper, premium quality iron ore and potash, uniquely positions performance against our climate change metrics.
We also seek us to manage and respond to changes and capture opportunities input and insight from external experts, such as the Forum to grow shareholder value over time.
Stranded assets and the carbon bubble to reflect updates in scientific knowledge and global regulatory the potential gap between the current valuation of fossil fuel and political responses, we regularly review our position on climate reserves on the balance sheets of companies and in global equities change.
We incorporate climate change considerations into our markets and the reduced value that could result if a significant Group scenarios to understand potential impacts on our portfolio.
proportion of reserves were rendered incapable of extraction We also conduct annual reviews of performance against Business in an economically viable fashion due to responses to climate greenhouse gas GHG targets to ensure we are on track to achieve change, is known as the carbon bubble.
although this concept our company target.
the Sustainability Committee has considered has been discussed by non-government organisations and academics a range of climate change scenarios and continues to monitor the for several years, there has recently been renewed interest in this actions being taken to manage a range of climate change impacts topic, particularly from ratings agencies and investment analysts.
there is, however, little consensus on what specific carbon prices, Our perspective on climate change fossil fuel demand or market prices might trigger this devaluation.
We accept the intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes iPCC Providing access to the affordable energy required to continue assessment of climate change science, which has found that warming economic growth is essential for maintaining living standards of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and physical and alleviating poverty.
under all current plausible scenarios, impacts are unavoidable.
We believe the world must pursue the twin fossil fuels will continue to be a significant part of the energy objectives of limiting climate change to the lower end of the iPCC mix for decades.
emission scenarios in line with current international agreements, BHP Billiton uses a scenario framework, including forecasting while providing access to the affordable energy required to continue commodity prices that considers critical global uncertainties the economic growth essential for maintaining living standards and e. g. macroeconomic and geopolitical and their impacts on alleviating poverty.
using a range of carbon prices We use the iPCCs findings to build our understanding of the and commodity demand and pricing assumptions across a impacts climate change will have on our business and to inform variety of internally consistent scenarios, we have determined our decision-making.
limiting climate change will require substantial that BHP Billitons overall asset valuation is not at material risk, and sustained reductions of GHG emissions.
our view is that the pay-back periods for most present and future investments an effective, long-term climate change policy framework in fossil fuels production are relatively short and the portfolio should use a portfolio of complementary measures to reduce remains robust.
this should include a price on carbon that addresses competitiveness concerns, support for energy-efficiency improvements, and the development and deployment of low-emissions technologies, together with measures to respond to the physical impacts of climate change.
We will continue to take action to reduce our emissions and build the resilience of our operations, investments, communities and ecosystems to the impacts of climate change.
recognising their role as policy makers, we engage with governments to enhance the global response.
We work in partnership with resource sector peers to improve sectoral performance and increase industrys influence in policy development to deliver effective long-term regulatory responses.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 51 51 1 Strategic report continued 1.14.2 Governance continued 1.14.3 Health and safety Mitigation Keeping our people and operations safe We have been setting GHG targets for our Businesses since We recognise that the health and safety of our people comes 1996 and have a goal to limit our overall emissions to below our first.
this is core to Our Charter and to every aspect of our FY2006 baseline by FY2017.
Meeting an absolute target is not easy.
our people are key to our long-term success and Growth across our Businesses will increase emissions and we must central to improving our HSeC performance.
continually look for opportunities to improve our energy efficiency to understand, manage and, where possible, eliminate the risks and implement GHG reduction projects to mitigate this increase.
in our business, we have appropriate controls in place and provide all our Businesses are required to minimise their emissions to our people with appropriate training.
While eliminating hazards reduce our contribution to climate change.
they must identify, through engineering or physical controls has a strong place in evaluate and implement all suitable projects that prevent or safety management, we understand it is only part of the solution.
minimise GHG emissions including in project design and equipment our operations are required to have systems in place to identify and selection.
For further information on our GHG emissions reduction effectively manage foreseeable crises and emergencies.
this ensures projects, please refer to the Sustainability report 2014. our operations can deal with potential causalities, to limit harm and Adaptation to safely return to full function as soon as possible.
We recognise that we must ensure our business is resilient and across our business, we undertake annual assessments to verify can adapt to physical climate change impacts that will occur.
that critical controls are effective in managing each material risk.
our assets are long-lived so we take a robust, risk-based approach During FY2014, we maintained this focus, which included assessing to managing these impacts.
our assessment of the regional impacts whether the critical controls were being deployed as designed and on our Businesses shows that they are already exposed to risks to the standard required.
as a result of climate change, including increasing storm intensities, greater water supply variability and an increasing number of in FY2014, there were no fatalities reported at our operated high-temperature days.
these impacts can affect health and safety, assets.
our total recordable injury frequency triF performance productivity and financial performance.
testing the resilience of of 4.2 injuries per million hours worked improved by nine per cent our operations to these impacts has already changed the way we compared with FY2013.
For example, the identification and assessment of increasing Total recordable injury frequency per million hours worked storm intensity and storm surge levels has resulted in raising the height of the trestle at our Hay Point coal port facility in australia Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 as part of our expansion plans.
total recordable injury frequency triF 4.2 4.6 4.7 We continue to look for enhancements to the Company-wide integrated planning framework to allow better assessment Focusing on the health of our people of the physical risks associated with climate change and to ensure to prevent occupational illness and injury, we are focused on resilience is embedded into our business plans and investment ensuring the work our people are required to do does not impact decisions.
We will also look for opportunities to work in partnership their health and that they are fit for work.
this means identifying to improve community and ecosystem resilience to the impacts and assessing risks and managing and minimising their impact.
Since FY2012, we have seen an increase in the reporting of Investing in technology and innovation musculoskeletal illnesses and in FY2014 we have also seen an to effectively address the challenge of climate change, there must increase in noise induced hearing loss case reporting.
these changes be a significant focus on developing and deploying low-emissions in reported cases have been driven by the adoption of comprehensive technologies over the next few decades.
the rate of technology musculoskeletal illness classification processes and the introduction improvement and subsequent adoption must be faster than the of programs for the early detection of hearing loss at some of our usual commercial timeframes if these technologies are to be australian operations.
this has resulted in more focus on both of available at scale and at acceptable cost to meet the global these illnesses.
industry and government will need to work together in collaborative partnerships to facilitate this step-change.
in FY2014, the incidence of employee occupational illness was 2.84 per million hours worked, an increase of 19 per cent compared We are a foundation member of the Cooperative research Centre with FY2013.
for Greenhouse Gas technologies, one of the worlds leading collaborative research organisations focused on carbon capture Employee occupational illness incidence per million hours worked and storage CCS.
We contribute a voluntary levy to the australian Coal association low emissions technologies to facilitate the Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 development of low-emissions technologies from coal use, including CCS.
We are a member of the Global Carbon Capture and Storage noise induced hearing loss 0.68 0.51 0.97 institute which aims to accelerate the development, demonstration Musculoskeletal 1.61 1.24 1.04 and deployment of CCS globally through knowledge sharing, other illnesses 0.55 0.64 0.35 fact-based advice and advocacy and works to create favourable conditions to implement CCS.
Total 2.84 2.39 2.36 We are developing a more integrated approach to low-emissions our priority is to control occupational exposures at their source.
technology to provide a roadmap for our investments.
We will We are focused on continuously improving our occupational investigate opportunities for investment across a range of exposure controls.
in situations where we cannot control the source, technologies that have the potential to lead to material emission we employ a range of measures, including the provision of personal reductions in our operations and across our supply chains.
protective equipment to safeguard our people.
to accelerate deployment of any prospective technologies, we will seek opportunities to partner with governments, operations are required to identify and control health risks and to industry leaders and key researchers.
establish an exposure risk profile to harmful agents for employees and for contractors and to review the profile to validate exposure Further information on our approach to climate change is available levels and to account for process changes.
the implementation online at of exposure controls is required where exposure potentially exceeds or is anticipated to exceed occupational exposure limits oels.
We establish our own oels when we believe local regulatory limits do not provide adequate protection for our workers.
if a potential exposure to harmful agents exceeds 50 per cent of the oel, periodic medical surveillance is required.
52 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.14.3 Health and safety continued in FY2012, we established a health target baseline and committed Biodiversity and land management to reduce potential occupational exposure to carcinogens and improving our management of land and enhancing biodiversity airborne contaminants by 10 per cent by FY2017.
in FY2014, are essential to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner.
we recorded a 22 per cent decrease in the number of potential We continue to demonstrate environmental responsibility by exposures to carcinogens and airborne contaminants, if not for minimising our environmental impacts and seeking opportunities the use of personal protective equipment, compared with our to contribute to enduring benefits to biodiversity, ecosystems FY2012 baseline.
We have therefore currently exceeded our and other environmental resources.
target: however, exposure control remains an area of focus our approach to land access is undertaken on a case-by-case to ensure our reductions are maintained.
basis and considers the potential environmental, societal, economic or cultural impacts.
We consider what land we need 1.14.4 Environment for our activities and seek to identify the uses of the land and We demonstrate environmental responsibility by minimising the stakeholders who may be affected by our activities.
We then our environmental impacts and contributing to enduring benefits look at our possible short-term and long-term impacts on that to biodiversity, ecosystems and other environmental resources.
land, including the effects that our use may have on biodiversity, We classify environmental incidents based on our risk Severity table.
water resources, air and communities.
We determine a significant environmental incident as one that causes in FY2013, we established a target to develop and maintain land one or more major impacts to land, biodiversity, ecosystem services, and biodiversity management plans that include controls to avoid, water resources or air, with effects lasting greater than one year.
minimise, rehabilitate and apply compensatory actions as incidents that may impact any of the environmental attributes listed appropriate, to manage the biodiversity and ecosystem impacts previously are investigated and remediated according to internal of our operations.
this target is supported by the requirements or external requirements.
in FY2014, there were no significant of our Environment GlD.
in FY2014, all our operations developed environmental incidents reported at our operated assets.
land and biodiversity management plans, consistent with our target.
Energy and greenhouse gas management We also have explicit requirements in our Environment GlD We strive to continually improve energy and GHG management.
to avoid environmental impacts to protect our local and global Consistent with our Environment GlD, our Businesses are required environment.
We continue to monitor the operational effectiveness to identify, evaluate and implement suitable projects that prevent of our controls.
Where actual or reasonably foreseeable residual or minimise GHG emissions.
We also evaluate and implement impacts remain to important biodiversity and ecosystems impacted GHG emission reduction opportunities in capital project design.
by our activities, we look to undertake compensatory actions.
in FY2013, we set a target to maintain our FY2017 GHG emissions in addition to the environmental management actions of our below our FY2006 baseline levels, while continuing to grow Businesses, we have voluntarily committed to finance the conservation our business.
in FY2014, the Groups total GHG emissions were and ongoing management of areas of high biodiversity and 45.0 million tonnes Mt of carbon dioxide equivalent Coe, 2 ecosystem value that are of national or international conservation a reduction of 1.7 Mt Coe compared with FY2013 46.7 Mt Coe.
We established an alliance with Conservation this keeps us in line to achieve our GHG target.
We will continue international to support the delivery of this target and improve to focus on the implementation of abatement opportunities within our approach to biodiversity management more broadly.
as a result, our Businesses to further reduce our GHG emissions.
we will improve our environmental performance and broaden GHG Scope 1 and 2 millions of tonnes COe our contributions to lasting environmental benefits beyond what 2 could be achieved by our operations alone.
as of FY2014, we have Year ended 30 June 2014 2013 2012 committed more than uS$30 million to conservation, in addition a to the environmental management activities at our operations.
Scope 1 22.7 22.0 20.2 b Scope 2 22.3 24.7 20.0 a central part of our approach to managing our impacts on land and biodiversity is the rehabilitation of land no longer required total GHG millions of tonnes Coe 45.0 46.7 40.2 2 for our activities.
our Businesses are required to maintain rehabilitation plans that support life of asset and closure plans, a Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from our operated assets.
b Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased and to rehabilitate disturbed areas no longer required for electricity and steam that is consumed by our operated assets.
operational purposes, consistent with the pre-disturbance land use or alternate land use, taking into account regulatory in FY2014, our total energy consumption across the Group increased requirements and stakeholder expectations.
by six per cent, compared to FY2013, to 343 petajoules.
this increase was related to new projects coming online, including our Jimblebar Water stewardship iron ore mine in Western australia and our Daunia coal mine in We recognise the role we have as responsible stewards of the water Queensland, australia.
to further improve energy consumption and resources we share with our host communities and the environment.
GHG emissions we have implemented projects across our Businesses.
the sustainability of our operations relies on our ability to obtain an appropriate quality and quantity of water, use it responsibly in line with requirements of the uK Companies act 2006, our and manage it appropriately, including taking account of natural reported FY2014 GHG intensity was 4.9 tonnes of Coe per tonne 2 supply variations.
We believe that attempting to benchmark energy use and or greenhouse gas emissions on an across our Businesses, water risks are required to be assessed intensity basis does not meaningfully contribute to an understanding and managed on a regional basis.
in some locations, we operate of our performance, given the diverse range of products across our in arid environments where water scarcity is an ongoing challenge, portfolio, fundamental differences in the grade, geology, accessibility while in other locations, we contend with water excess, water and technological processes and changes in output levels that quality or water discharge issues.
We anticipate climate change is routinely occur in different directions in response to changing likely to make the patterns and cycles of water flow less predictable market conditions and other factors.
rather than use an intensity and so we require our operations to implement adaptive responses.
metric, we have set ourselves a more challenging goal to limit our Managing our shared water resources is therefore a complex task overall emissions by setting an absolute target, keeping our FY2017 for our business.
GHG emissions below our FY2006 baseline while we continue to grow our business.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 53 53 1 Strategic report continued 1.14.4 Environment continued in line with our Environment GlD, our operations are required a number of controls are used to manage, minimise and recycle to assess direct, indirect and cumulative impacts and risks to water drilling residuals.
We use closed loop systems that allow drilling resources as a result of understanding social, cultural, ecological muds to be recycled and lower the potential for contact with and economic values of these resources at a catchment level within the environment.
as part of our commitment to transparency, our area of influence.
Based on these risks and impacts, controls we publicly report the ingredients of the fracturing fluids for each demonstrating application of the mitigation hierarchy avoid, well completion in the hydraulic fracturing chemical disclosure minimise and rehabilitate environmental impacts prior to applying registry, FracFocus.
For a high percentage of our wells, we fully compensatory actions are required to be implemented and disclose all of the ingredients and additives by name and Chemical monitored for effectiveness.
target environmental outcomes abstracts Service number and provide the maximum percentage for impacts to water resources consistent with the level of risk of each ingredient present in the fracturing fluid mixture.
in a few are also required.
Compensatory actions are applied where cases, the service providers who supply the ingredients and conduct residual impacts remain to important water-related biodiversity our well completions elect to designate a small number of proprietary and ecosystems impacted by our activities to meet our ingredients as confidential business information.
in the Permian target environmental outcomes and contribute to long-term area, we pump a blend of produced water and fresh water treated environmental benefits.
with an advanced oxidation process which utilises ozone, a highly reactive oxidant that kills most bacteria.
this process eliminates recognising the regional nature of our water risks, we introduced the need for clay stabiliser and biocide, thereby reducing the a target in FY2013 requiring our Businesses with water-related number of additives in the fracturing fluid mixture.
every well material risks, to implement projects to improve the management we drill is checked against our critical controls to ensure well of water resources.
the target allows our Businesses to focus integrity and the safety of our operations.
on the water challenges specific to the regions in which they operate.
in FY2014, all our operations that identified water-related the majority of our air emissions relate to GHG emissions from material risks implemented at least one project to improve the fuel combustion and flaring or venting during well construction management of associated water resources.
We are working to reduce emissions by capturing and selling produced natural gas that may otherwise have been Being a responsible water steward requires transparent and vented or flared.
consistent reporting of water use and impacts.
We have played a key role in the development and implementation of the Minerals 1.14.5 Society Council of australias Water accounting Framework WaF.
the WaF Supporting and engaging with our communities aims to improve data integrity and comparability across the sector to allow a more meaningful analysis on which to base policy making We are a global company that values our host communities.
our water reporting is consistent We strive to be part of the communities in which we operate and with the WaF approach, and we are working with the iCMM to through all our interactions seek to foster meaningful long-term support broader adoption across industry.
relationships, which respect local cultures and create lasting benefits.
through under the WaF, water is categorised as type 1 close to drinking employment, taxes and royalties, we support local, regional and water standards, type 2 suitable for some purposes, and type 3 national economies.
We purchase local goods and services and unsuitable for most purposes.
in FY2014, our total water input develop infrastructure that benefits entire communities.
water intended for use was 347,700 megalitres across the Group, with 84 per cent defined as type 2 or type 3. our use of type 2 and From the earliest possible stage of a projects life, we seek to build type 3 water demonstrates our approach to utilising lower-quality trust with our stakeholders.
By defining the boundaries of our host water wherever feasible.
communities, we assess the social, economic, political, security and environmental aspects and develop a social baseline, which Responsibly managing hydraulic fracturing is required to be updated every five years with changes tracked the nature of our hydraulic fracturing operations at our north over time.
Stakeholder engagement plans, which identify the american eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville shale interests and relationships of our stakeholders and contain a range areas means at times we work in close proximity to our host of culturally and socially inclusive engagement activities to encourage communities.
We actively engage with local stakeholders to address open communication, are reviewed and updated annually.
to ensure public concerns about hydraulic fracturing fluids, groundwater our engagement and community development activities are effective contamination, land and water resources, GHG emissions, increased and to inform planning activities, our operations are required vehicular traffic and worker exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
to complete a community perception survey every three years.
We continue to investigate ways to reduce or eliminate any Free prior and informed consent potential impacts associated with our activities.
as one of the 22 member companies of the iCMM, we have to protect and manage the land and water resources, we conduct worked to develop a progressive position statement on indigenous environmental assessments prior to the execution of hydraulic Peoples and Mining.
this statement, which comes into effect fracturing work to minimise the impacts of our operations.
in FY2014, in May 2015, specifically addresses the issue of Free Prior and we completed a water balance showing inputs, uses, losses, reuse informed Consent FPiC.
and recycle, and disposal amounts of fresh water for each operation to identify opportunities to reduce water consumption in our hydraulic fracturing operations.
We are pursuing non-potable water options, including the use of brackish water, recycled municipal effluents and recycled water from our production wells.
54 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.14.5 Society continued FPiC is a concept based on good faith negotiation through Respecting human rights which indigenous peoples can give or withhold their consent We acknowledge our activities have the potential to impact human using processes consistent with their traditional decision-making rights and we address these through our core business practices.
Supporting commitments address understanding their We are committed to operating in accordance with the united nations rights and interests, building cross-cultural understanding, and un universal Declaration of Human rights, un Guiding Principles agreeing on appropriate engagement processes and participation on Business and Human rights and the un Global Compact Principles.
a number of related commitments address how We support these commitments through Our Charter and Code iCMM members should engage where government is responsible of Business Conduct, and the performance requirements detailed for managing indigenous peoples interests and how to move forward in our GlDs.
when differences of opinion arise.
the iCMMs position statement in line with our Community GlD, our human rights due diligence recognises the right of governments to ultimately make decisions process requires our operations to identify and document key on development of resources and that, in most countries, neither potential human rights risks by completing a human rights impact indigenous peoples nor other groups have a right to veto projects.
this includes assessing performance against Where consent cannot be reached, a host government may decide the articles of the un universal Declaration of Human rights, to proceed with a project after balancing the rights and interests the un Global Compact principles and host country legislation of indigenous peoples with the wider population.
in these governing human rights issues.
We require each Hria to be reviewed circumstances, it will be up to iCMM member companies on an annual basis.
every three years, each Hria is required to be to determine whether they remain involved with the project.
verified through an engagement process with stakeholders and, through our Community GlD, we require our Businesses to prepare, in medium and high-risk jurisdictions, by a qualified human rights design and implement indigenous engagement programs that are specialist.
Where a Hria identifies a material risk, a human rights consistent with the new iCMM Position Statement on indigenous management plan is required to be implemented and reviewed Peoples and Mining for new operations or major capital projects that annually.
Selected employees and contractors receive training are located on lands traditionally owned by or under customary use on how to comply with our human rights commitments.
of indigenous peoples and are likely to have significant adverse through our commitment to the Voluntary Principles on Security and impacts on indigenous peoples.
Human rights VPs, we seek to protect people and property from Respecting customary rights material risks presented by security threats.
Performance requirements at a very early stage in a project, we seek to identify landowners, related to the VPs are implemented through our Security and occupiers and users who may be affected by our activities.
our operations are required to who is connected to and uses the land is critical to establishing identify security-related material risks to people and property and an effective community consultation and engagement program.
engage relevant stakeholders to develop and manage security this helps to ensure people potentially affected by our operations programs that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
are fully aware of our activities and have an opportunity to express in addition, we require our operations to conduct a gap analysis their concerns and aspirations.
arising from this engagement, the annually using the VPs implementation Guidance tool and operational work plan may be amended to reduce potential impacts to implement an improvement plan to close identified gaps.
the process also provides an opportunity to further build awareness Surveys are commissioned to identify the customary owners and and understanding of the VPs across the Company.
how the land is being used to ensure these uses are taken into Making a positive contribution to society account in our development plans.
in instances where land may Creating lasting economic and social benefit for our communities be used for customary purposes and no formal land title has been is fundamental to our business.
this helps create a diversified issued, information is requested from relevant organisations, local economy and ensures our investment continues to benefit including government authorities with responsibilities for customary the community beyond the life of our operations.
We are an active land uses and indigenous peoples representative organisations, such participant in industry and sustainable development forums, such as land and tribal councils.
Further enquiries are also made directly as the iCMM.
We seek to understand our socio-economic impact on with the people in the area to help identify those with connections local communities and host regions through our participation in the to the land.
iCMMs Mining: Partnerships for Development initiative.
this global Respecting and including Indigenous communities initiative builds on the iCMMs resource endowment initiative and We recognise the traditional rights and values of indigenous peoples, seeks to enhance minings contribution to development and poverty respect their cultural heritage and provide opportunities for inclusion reduction through multi-stakeholder partnerships.
Wherever we operate, we contribute taxes and royalties to Many of our operations are located on or near indigenous lands.
governments which, in turn are used to provide important public We support our workers by providing cultural awareness and services and amenities to their communities.
at many of our competency training for employees and contractors who engage with locations, we also develop infrastructure to support our operations indigenous peoples from our host communities.
training is developed including roads, aerodromes, emergency response facilities, and delivered in consultation with traditional owners.
We also housing, public amenities, community facilities which can be identify who is connected to and uses the land to ensure we establish accessed and utilised by local communities and businesses.
effective community consultation and engagement programs.
We are focused on providing training and employment opportunities to our local communities.
Given the nature of the work we do, our ability to employ locally can be limited by the availability of industry and technical skills and experience at the local level.
our broader contribution to local economies can be realised through indirect employment and our support of local businesses that provide a range of services and products, which enable our operations to function effectively.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 55 55 1 Strategic report continued 1.14.5 Society continued Improving the quality of life in our host communities Ok Tedi a focus on sustainability underpins all our investments in community BHP Billiton exited from ok tedi Mining limited otMl in February economic development.
this means we are committed to addressing 2002. the exit arrangements included the transfer of BHP Billitons the needs and priorities of the communities in which we operate shares in otMl to PnG Sustainable Development Program limited and seek to invest in projects that will continue to promote PnGSDP and a statutory undertaking protecting BHP Billiton from benefits to the community after the funding is completed.
We work environmental claims by the PnG Government.
with our host communities to identify the major social issues and in September 2013, the Papua new Guinea PnG Parliament passed development priorities.
using data from a social baseline study and laws which compulsorily acquired PnGSDPs shares in otMl and social impact and opportunity assessment, we develop a community changed other aspects of the exit arrangements, including the development management plan.
Community development projects repeal of the protection from environmental claims by the PnG and donations are required to be aligned to the overall community Government.
BHP Billiton retains an indemnity from PnGSDP development management plan, implemented in consultation in respect of environmental claims by the PnG Government and with local stakeholders, and meet our due diligence and certain environmental claims by third parties.
this indemnity is anti-corruption requirements.
secured against the assets of PnGSDP.
We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, calculated Following the passing of the new laws, PnGSDP has commenced on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit, in legal proceedings and an international Centre for Settlement of community programs that aim to have a long-lasting positive investment Disputes iCSiD arbitration process against the State impact on peoples quality of life, including implementing of PnG and others.
new and supporting existing community projects.
With a focus on improving quality of life, our community development programs are developed by working openly with governments and the communities in which we operate, and focusing on the needs and resources of our key stakeholders.
this is how we are contributing to economic and social development.
During FY2014, our voluntary community investment totalled uS$241.7 million, comprising uS$141.7 million of cash, in-kind support and administrative costs, and a uS$100 million contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
the BHP Billiton Foundation was established in FY2013 to identify and support large sustainable development projects in countries and regions of interest to BHP Billiton to complement the local programs managed by our assets.
this builds on contributions that have previously been paid to the BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities charitable organisation.
at the end of FY2014, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities had a total of uS$70.4 million and the BHP Billiton Foundation had a total of uS$179 million in funds available for future sustainable development projects.
Community investment 2014 2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M expenditure including in-kind 1 support and administrative costs 141.7 139.8 149.1 Contribution into BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities and BHP Billiton Foundation 100.0 106.0 65.0 Total Community investment 241.7 245.8 214.1 1 represents BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations.
in FY2014, of the uS$141.7 million cash expenditure, 46 per cent was invested in local communities: 44 per cent was invested regionally and 10 per cent was invested in national or international programs in countries where we operate.
56 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15 Additional information 1.15.1 External factors and trends US$M the following section describes some of the external factors and uS$1 bbl on oil price 54 trends that have had a material impact on our financial condition uS10 MMBtu on uS gas price 30 and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic and uS1 lb on copper price 24 changing environment and with information that is rarely complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed in this section uS$1 t on iron ore price 112 under our portfolio risk management approach, which relies on the uS$1 t on metallurgical coal price 28 effects of diversification, rather than individual risk management uS$1 t on energy coal price 25 programs.
Details of our risk factors can be found in section 1.7.
2 uS$50 t on aluminium price 36 of this annual report.
Details of our financial risk management uS10 dmtu on manganese ore price 26 strategies and financial instruments outstanding at 30 June 2014 can be found in section 1.7.
3 and in note 29 Financial risk uS$1 t on manganese alloy price 1 management to the Financial Statements.
uS1 lb on nickel price 2 Management monitors particular trends arising from external During FY2014, commodity markets saw some support from a factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future modest improvement in global economic activity, though growth financial condition and results of operations.
the following external was uneven across different regions.
the united States and Japan factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and saw underlying momentum increase, but emerging economies, areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that notably China, saw growth slow.
For steelmaking raw materials, is incomplete or uncertain.
supply growth exceeded that of demand resulting in a decrease Commodity prices in prices.
Metal commodity prices were relatively stable with the the prices we obtain for our products represent a key driver of exception of nickel, which experienced a price increase primarily our business, and fluctuations in these commodity prices affect our as a result of the indonesian ore export ban.
For energy commodities, results, including cash flows and asset values.
the estimated impact uS natural gas prices benefited from strong winter demand, while on FY2014 profit after taxation of changes of commodity prices is set solid demand growth combined with supply disruptions and out below.
geopolitical tensions have provided price support for crude oil.
the following table shows prices of our most significant commodities for the years ended 30 June 2014, 2013 and 2012. these prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated.
these prices will differ from the realised prices on the sale of the Groups production due to differences in quotation periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
2 Platts Dated Brent is a benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of north Sea light sweet crude oil.
3 GlobalCoal FoB newcastle 6,000 kcal kg nCV typically applies to coal sales in the asia-Pacific market.
4 Platts Gas based on Henry Hub typically applies to gas sales in the uS gas market.
5 Platts liquefied natural Gas Delivery ex-Ship DeS Japan Korea Marker typically applies to asian lnG spot sales.
6 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFr China used for fines.
7 Bulk Ferroalloy high-carbon ferromanganese HCFeMn Western europe DDP.
8 2014 and 2013 Metal Bulletin manganese ore 44 per cent Mn Cost insurance Freight CiF, 2012 Cru CiF China import 43 per cent contained manganese.
9 Platts low-Vol hard coking coal index FoB australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
10 oPiS Mont Belvieu non-tet ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the uS Gulf Coast market.
11 oPiS Mont Belvieu non-tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the uS Gulf Coast market.
12 oPiS Mont Belvieu non-tet normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the uS Gulf Coast market.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 57 57 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued the following summarises the pricing trends of our most significant eight per cent during FY2014.
Weaker alloy prices led to decreased commodities for FY2014.
production in South Korea and the united States.
Aluminium: the london Metals exchange lMe aluminium average Metallurgical coal: the average Platts low-Vol Hard Coking Coal cash settlement price decreased by nine per cent during FY2014.
index decreased by 19 per cent during FY2014.
While demand from Demand continued to increase, but new supply offset the curtailment traditional markets recovered steadily, the price decrease was mainly of high-cost capacity.
Delays in implementing changes to lMe driven by continuing supply growth from australia.
the year-end price warehouse rules contributed to record high regional premiums also decreased 14 per cent versus the average price for the year.
ex-China as inventories were constrained by warehouse queues.
Nickel: the average lMe cash settlement nickel price decreased Since 30 June 2014, the aluminium cash settlement price increased by seven per cent during FY2014.
increased supply growth coming to uS$2,114 t on 31 august 2014. mainly from Chinese nickel pig iron and new production from Alumina: the Platts FoB australia average price decreased by greenfield projects was greater than demand growth in the first half of the year.
the price increase in the second half of the year two per cent during FY2014.
although demand grew, driven by the was driven by decreased low-cost supply due to the indonesian commissioning of new smelters in China, increasing supply outpaced ore export ban.
Demand growth increased, supported by the growth in demand.
a recovery in stainless steel production in europe and the Copper: the lMe copper average cash settlement price decreased united States.
the year-end price increased 23 per cent by nine per cent in FY2014.
a shortage of copper scrap and growth versus the average price for the year.
in Chinese demand supported prices in the first half of the financial NGL: the Mont Belvieu ethane average price decreased by year: however, the price decreased in March amid concerns over the two per cent during FY2014 following increases in ethane supply.
although seasonal demand strength Mont Belvieu propane average prices increased by 29 per cent helped regain some lost ground, strong growth of refined copper during FY2014, supported by a decrease in supply growth.
Mont production limited price upside.
Belvieu butane average prices decreased by eight per cent during Crude oil: the Platts Dated Brent crude average price increased FY2014 due to increased butane supply.
Since 30 June 2014, the Mont by one per cent during FY2014.
Prices were supported by increased Belvieu ethane price decreased to uS$9.92 bbl on 31 august 2014. global demand, constrained libyan supply, tensions in the ukraine Exchange rates and a surge of unrest in iraq in the latter part of the year.
Moderating We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign currency price drivers included slower growth in the Chinese economy during sales and purchases, as we believe active currency hedging does not the December quarter of FY2014, combined with some progress provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
Because a majority towards resolving the deadlock over irans nuclear program.
of our sales are denominated in uS dollars, and the uS dollar plays Energy coal: the Global Coal newcastle FoB average price decreased a dominant role in our business, we borrow and hold surplus cash by 12 per cent during FY2014.
the decrease was driven by weaker predominantly in uS dollars to provide a natural hedge.
operating import demand growth from india and China, coupled with supply costs and costs of locally sourced equipment are influenced by growth from australia, russia and indonesia.
fluctuations in local currencies, primarily the australian dollar, Natural gas Henry Hub: the Platts uS Henry Hub natural gas Brazilian real, Chilean peso and South african rand.
Foreign exchange gains and losses reflected in operating costs owing to fluctuations average price increased by 24 per cent during FY2014.
the increase in the local currencies relative to the uS dollar may potentially was driven by early winter heating demand in the residential and offset one another.
the uS dollar strengthened in the last quarter commercial sectors, depleting inventory levels significantly below of FY2013, resulting in a stronger average uS dollar during the five-year average.
Storage inventories in June closed 31 per cent FY2013 compared to FY2014.
overall, the australian dollar ended below the five-year average at 1,829 billion cubic feet.
the financial year stronger against the uS dollar, while the Chilean Natural gas Asian Spot LNG: the asian liquefied natural gas peso, Brazilian real and South african rand weakened.
average spot price increased by eight per cent during FY2014.
We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation the price rise was primarily caused by strong north asian winter to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated heating demand, combined with the closure of Japanese and monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and other long-term South Korean nuclear reactors increasing the need for gas-fired liabilities.
Details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations power generation in the first half of the year.
Supply remained tight are contained within note 29 Financial risk management to the throughout the period, as egypt, nigeria and angola experienced Financial Statements.
the year-end price decrease of 31 per cent versus the average price for the year was principally due to low north asian Changes in product demand and supply summer demand and new supply coming to market from Papua new Global demand and supply for the commodities we produce is a Guinea in the second half of the year.
Since 30 June 2014, the asian key driver of commodity prices, and fluctuations in product demand liquefied natural gas spot price increased to uS$12.45 MMBtu and supply affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
on 31 august 2014. the global economy grew at a moderate rate in FY2014.
Momentum Iron ore: the Platts 62 per cent iron ore CFr China average price in the united States, Japan and the united Kingdom was underpinned declined by four per cent during FY2014.
the decrease was driven by central bank monetary policy.
europes economy improved by seaborne iron ore supply growth which outpaced demand.
marginally, although the recovery was constrained by high levels the price fluctuated between uS$89.00 dmt and uS$142.50 dmt of unemployment.
emerging markets, including China, experienced as large changes occurred in iron ore inventories.
increased in the first half of the year, primarily driven by Chinas in a relative sense, the Chinese economy continues to grow record pig iron production: however, the second half of the year strongly with signs that it is rebalancing.
Consumption continued saw demand growth decrease due to flat Chinese growth.
Seaborne to be supported by higher household incomes while fixed asset imports to China increased, primarily driven by supply from australia investment softened, led by the property sector, as the central bank and the year-end price decreased 24 per cent versus the average restricted access to credit.
rapid credit growth in the non-bank price for the year.
Since 30 June 2014, the Platts 62 per cent iron financial sector remained an important concern for policy makers.
ore CFr China price decreased to uS$88 dmt on 31 august 2014.
We remain confident in the short-term to medium-term outlook for Manganese: the Metal Bulletin manganese ore China CiF average the Chinese economy.
Measured stimulus recently introduced by the price decreased by six per cent during FY2014.
Demand growth government demonstrates their commitment to maintain economic slowed, while South african supply increased amid higher Chinese growth above seven per cent.
We believe consumption and services inventory levels.
the year-end price also decreased 15 per cent will continue to increase in importance, while the markets role in versus the average price for the year.
the Western europe spot high-carbon ferromanganese average price decreased by 58 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued While aluminium demand growth has been strong, new supply allocating capital will be enhanced.
Greater transparency within the fiscal system is also expected to reshape the relationship between continues to offset the curtailment of high-cost capacity.
However, central and local government.
we expect the premia currently being realised in certain regions to remain at elevated levels as warehouse bottlenecks are likely the underlying performance of the uS economy continued to to take some time to be resolved.
improve despite the significant disruption caused by severe weather in the March quarter of FY2014.
the curtailment of quantitative Capital expenditure easing appears to have had a limited impact on sentiment as a Capital expenditure is important in pursuing our strategy through solid increase in demand reflects a stronger labour market, rising the development of large-scale resource projects and in sustaining disposable incomes, and higher equities and housing prices.
Capital expenditure is disclosed for each investment has been a weak link in the recovery so far as companies Business in section 1.6.
have responded slowly to better economic conditions, despite Operating costs higher levels of profitability.
an increase in capital spending as the prices for our products are determined by the global will be required to sustain the recovery in the medium term.
commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally the Japanese economy has responded strongly to expansionary have the ability to offset cost pressures through corresponding monetary and fiscal policy over the past year.
investment spending price increases: therefore, controlling our operating costs is a and wages increased as corporate profits benefited from the key driver of our results.
operating costs for the last three years depreciation of the yen, while an increase in the national sales tax are set out in section 1.11 as well as an analysis of the change in april had a limited impact on consumption.
these factors have in total expenses.
Further analysis of the factors that impacted increased the potential for faster growth in the short term, although expenses during FY2014 is set out below and in section 1.15.3. a longer-term, sustainable recovery will be contingent on the scale in discussing the factors that affected total expenses, we refer and speed of structural reform.
to the change in operating cash costs and change in exploration With regard to the global economy, stronger united States growth and business development.
Collectively, we refer to these as and an associated tightening of monetary policy could result in change in controllable cash costs.
operating cash costs by definition the rapid outflow of capital from emerging economies.
However, do not include non-cash costs being depreciation, amortisation, developing nations with sound macroeconomic fundamentals would impairments, movements in deferred stripping balances and be less likely to experience a severe impact from this transition.
the change in operating cash costs also as anticipated, Chinese crude steel production growth decelerated excludes the impact of exchange rates and inflation on the actual in response to weakness in the construction sector.
on average, costs incurred in the corresponding period, changes in fuel and we expect the ratio of Chinese crude steel production growth to energy costs, changes in exploration and business development underlying GDP growth to remain below one, although seasonal costs and one-off items.
these items are excluded so as to provide factors and policy settings will continue to influence short-term a consistent measurement of changes in costs across all the output.
Global steel demand growth outside of China is likely to Businesses based on the factors that are within their control accelerate during the remainder of CY2014.
the supply of low-cost steelmaking raw materials has grown more Change in operating cash costs and change in controllable cash quickly than demand.
as predicted, lower-cost seaborne iron ore costs are not measures that are recognised under iFrS and they may supply is increasingly displacing higher cost Chinese domestic differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
as this trend continues, the cost curve is likely to a reconciliation of the movements in underlying eBit to the flatten as high-cost production exits the market.
in metallurgical financial statement line items in the income Statement is included coal, high-cost, uneconomic supply has remained resilient although in section 2.5 of this annual report.
we do expect to see an increasing number of production cuts, our focus on reducing operating costs through productivity particularly in the united States.
Given robust underlying demand initiatives saw a decrease in operating cash costs of uS$1.5 billion growth for premium hard coking coals, pricing for our products and a reduction in exploration and business development of is likely to be well supported in the medium and longer term.
uS$398 million to give a reduction in controllable cash costs indonesian and australian exports continue to keep the thermal coal of uS$1.9 billion.
in addition, operating costs were aided by market well supplied, prolonging the weaker pricing environment.
uncontrollable favourable exchange rate impacts of uS$2.0 billion.
While demand from key importing regions remains steady, prices these factors were offset by other uncontrollable factors such are unlikely to respond unless uneconomic supply exits the market.
as inflation uS$805 million and the production costs associated with higher volumes uS$2.6 billion.
With higher depreciation in copper, robust demand for refined metal, supply disruptions and and amortisation charges of uS$1.7 billion and higher impairment a shortage of scrap has ensured that the market remains broadly charges of uS$450 million, total expenses excluding exceptional balanced.
We believe the longer-term fundamentals for copper items increased from uS$45.0 billion to uS$46.5 billion.
remain compelling as grades decline, rising costs and a scarcity of high-quality future development opportunities are likely to Exploration and development of resources constrain low-cost supply.
Minerals exploration Demand growth, supply disruptions and geopolitical tension over the past six years, brownfield exploration has increased our have continued to support crude oil prices.
We expect prices reserve base around our portfolio of existing assets in large resource to remain supported by an increase in demand from non-oeCD basins, which now provide us with significant growth opportunities.
countries, which has recently outstripped growth in demand this has allowed us to reduce brownfield exploration expenditure from oeCD countries.
and rationalise our greenfield exploration program.
united States natural gas prices benefited from a cold winter, which Greenfield minerals new sites exploration is focused on advancing reduced inventory levels significantly below the five-year average.
targets within Chile and Peru, and is organised through our Copper in the longer term, demand is expected to benefit from increasing Business.
Greenfield activities include opportunity identification, industrial use, growth in gas-fired power generation and the application for and acquisition of mineral title, early reconnaissance commencement of lnG exports.
Conversely, high inventory levels operations and multi-million dollar delineation drilling programs.
at asian utilities, mild summer temperatures and the commissioning in addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class of additional supply have led to a decline in asia-Pacific lnG prices deposits, several of our Businesses undertake brownfield from their February peak.
developments on existing sites exploration, principally aimed the nickel price rose sharply during the second half of FY2014 as at delineating and categorising mineral deposits near existing the indonesian ore export ban took effect in the March quarter operations, and advancing projects through the development pipeline.
Demand growth remains robust given rising stainless steel production in China, europe and the united States.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 59 59 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued our expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three our earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the financial years is set out below.
floating interest rate component of the Groups net borrowings.
Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2014, taking into 2014 2013 2012 account interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the uS liBor interest rate will decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation Greenfield exploration 46 179 324 by uS$126 million 2013: decrease of uS$128 million.
this assumes Brownfield exploration 364 497 814 that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning Total minerals exploration 410 676 1,138 of the financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt the Groups minerals exploration expenditure declined by profile of the Group may not remain constant over the coming 39 per cent in FY2014 to uS$410 million as we sharpened our financial year and therefore such sensitivity analysis should focus on greenfield copper porphyry targets in Chile and Peru.
Petroleum exploration Health, safety, environment and community We have reduced exploration expenditure in Petroleum over recent We operate in an industry where many of our activities are highly years with a sharpened focus on high-impact liquids opportunities regulated by laws governing health, safety and the environment.
in the Gulf of Mexico, Western australia and trinidad and tobago.
We are committed to compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate and, where applicable, to 2014 2013 2012 exceeding legal and other requirements which are less stringent Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M than our own.
However, regulatory standards and community Petroleum exploration 600 675 1,355 expectations are constantly evolving.
as a result, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen Exploration expense environmental rehabilitation expenses, despite our best efforts exploration expense represents that portion of exploration to work with governments, community groups and scientists expenditure that is not capitalised in accordance with our to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectations.
accounting policies, as set out in note 1 accounting policies Further information about our compliance with HSeC regulations to the Financial Statements.
can be found in section 1.14 of this annual report.
exploration expense for each Business over the three-year period Insurance is set out below.
During FY2014, we maintained an insurance program encompassing property damage, business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, 2014 2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M marine cargo, construction, directors and officers liability and public and certain other liabilities.
the program includes a 1 Exploration expense combination of self-insurance via subsidiary captive insurance Petroleum and Potash 544 709 1,038 companies, industry mutuals and external market insurance and Copper 116 274 366 reinsurance.
Mandates are established as to risk retention levels, policy cover and, where applicable, insurance and reinsurance iron ore 56 74 135 counterparty security.
as part of our portfolio risk management Coal 34 39 174 approach, we regularly conduct an assessment of maximum aluminium, Manganese and nickel 38 53 68 foreseeable loss potential, cash flow at risk, loss experience, Group and unallocated items 7 claims received and insurance premiums paid, and will make adjustments to the balance of self-insurance and external BHP Billiton Group 788 1,149 1,788 insurance and reinsurance as required.
1 includes uS$72 million 2013: uS$102 million, 2012: uS$144 million exploration the Group is largely self-insured for losses arising from property expense previously capitalised, written off as impaired.
damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine Following our focus on productivity and reducing costs, the reduction cargo, construction and primary public liability.
For these risks, in the Groups exploration expense excluding impairment of we internally insure our Businesses for wholly owned assets and exploration expense previously capitalised increased underlying for our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance eBit in FY2014 by uS$331 million.
any losses incurred will consequently impact the Interest rates Financial Statements as they arise.
We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings 1.15.2 Application of critical accounting policies and investments.
our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest on our borrowings to be on a uS dollar floating interest rate basis.
the preparation of our Financial Statements requires management Deviation from our policy requires the prior approval of our Financial to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts risk Management Committee and is managed within our Cash Flow of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at risk CFar framework, which is described in note 29 Financial at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported revenue risk management to the Financial Statements.
When required under and expenses during the periods presented therein.
on an ongoing this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross currency basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements in interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and rate exposure.
as at 30 June 2014, the Group held uS$3.3 billion expenses.
Management bases its estimates and judgements 2013: uS$5.4 billion of centrally managed fixed interest rate on historical experience and on various other factors it believes borrowings, as well as uS$2.0 billion 2013: uS$3.5 billion of to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which other fixed interest rate borrowings, that have not been swapped form the basis of making judgements about the carrying values to floating interest rates, primarily arising from debt raised during of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other FY2014, debt assumed as part of the acquisition of Petrohawk sources.
actual results may differ from these estimates under and debt raised prior to the DlC merger.
60 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15.2 Application of critical accounting policies continued We have identified the following critical accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods: reserve estimates: exploration and evaluation expenditure: development expenditure: property, plant and equipment and intangible assets recoverable amount: defined benefit pension schemes: provision for closure and rehabilitation: taxation.
in accordance with international Financial reporting Standards iFrS, we are required to include information regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and potential impacts on our financial results or financial position in the Financial Statements.
this information can be found in note 1 accounting policies to the Financial Statements.
1.15.3 Operating results the following table describes the approximate impact of the principal factors that affected underlying eBit for FY2014 and FY2013.
2014 2013 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M Underlying EBIT as reported in the prior year 22,930 28,086 Change in volumes: Productivity 962 1,257 Growth 1,929 707 2,891 1,964 net price impact: Change in sales prices 3,396 8,454 Price-linked costs 80 582 3,476 7,872 Change in controllable cash costs: operating cash costs 1,524 1,556 exploration and business development 398 949 1,922 2,505 Change in other costs: exchange rates 1,760 229 inflation on costs 805 646 Fuel and energy 46 133 non-cash 2,091 154 one-off items 103 1,182 499 asset sales 53 66 Ceased and sold operations 492 657 other 215 531 Underlying EBIT 22,861 22,930 the total increase in underlying eBit relating to productivity initiatives in FY2014 was uS$2.9 billion.
the following table reconciles the principal factors shown above with the Groups benefits attributable to productivity initiatives.
2014 2013 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M Change in operating cash costs 1,524 1,556 Change in exploration and business development 398 949 Change in controllable cash costs 1,922 2,505 Change in volumes attributed to productivity 962 1,257 total productivity gains in underlying eBit 2,884 3,762 Change in capitalised exploration 10 545 Total benefits attributable to productivity initiatives 2,894 4,307 BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 61 61 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.3 Operating results continued the method of calculation of the factors that affected underlying eBit and the Financial Statement line items of revenue, other income and expenses excluding net finance costs that are affected by the factors are as follows.
Factor affecting Underlying EBIT Method of calculation Financial statement line item affected Volumes Growth Volume Growth comprises underlying eBit for operations that are new or revenue and expenses acquired in the current period minus underlying eBit for operations that are new or acquired in the corresponding period, change in volumes for operations identified as a Growth project from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by the prior year underlying eBit margin, and change in volume for Petroleum Business from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by the prior year underlying eBit margin.
Volumes Productivity Change in volumes for each operation not included in the Growth category revenue and expenses from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by the prior year underlying eBit margin.
Change in sales prices Change in average realised price for each operation from the corresponding revenue period to the current period multiplied by current period volumes.
Price-linked costs Change in price-linked costs for each operation from the corresponding period expenses to the current period multiplied by current period volumes.
operating cash costs Change in total costs, other than price-linked costs, exchange rates, inflation expenses on costs, fuel and energy costs, non-cash costs and one-off items as defined below for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period.
exploration and business exploration and business development expense in the current period minus expenses development exploration and business development expense in the corresponding period.
exchange rates Change in exchange rate multiplied by current period local currency revenue revenue and expenses and expenses.
the majority of the Groups selling prices are denominated in uS dollars and so there is little impact of exchange rate changes on revenue.
inflation on costs Change in inflation rate applied to expenses, other than depreciation and expenses amortisation, price-linked costs, exploration and business development expenses, expenses in ceased and sold operations and expenses in new and acquired operations.
Fuel and energy Fuel and energy expense in the current period minus fuel and energy expense expenses in the corresponding period.
non-cash includes non-cash items, mainly depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
expenses one-off items Change in costs exceeding a predetermined threshold associated with an expenses unexpected event that had not occurred in the last two years and is not reasonably likely to occur within the next two years.
asset sales Profit loss on the sale of assets or operations in the current period minus other income profit loss on sale in the corresponding period.
Ceased and sold operations underlying eBit for operations that are ceased or sold operations in the revenue, other income and expenses current period minus underlying eBit for operations that are ceased or sold in the corresponding period.
other Variances not explained by the above factors.
expenses a reconciliation of the movements in underlying eBit for FY2014 in metallurgical coal, an increase in seaborne supply and the resilience to the financial statement line items in the income Statement is of higher cost, along with uneconomic capacity led to a 20 per cent included in section 2.5. and 14 per cent decline in the average realised price of hard coking coal and weak coking coal, respectively.
the average price received the following commentary describes the principal factors outlined for thermal coal also declined by 14 per cent during the period.
in the table above for FY2014 and FY2013.
in total, lower average realised prices in our Coal Business reduced Volumes underlying eBit by uS$1.5 billion.
Volume efficiencies attributed to productivity and the ramp-up of a five per cent decline in the average realised price of copper major projects underpinned an increase in production in a number reflected the near-term rebalancing of the market, while the of Businesses in FY2014 and an additional uS$2.9 billion in acceleration of low-cost, seaborne iron ore supply growth, underlying eBit.
Waio was the major contributor as the ramp-up predominantly from australias Pilbara region, weighed on prices of the Jimblebar mining hub and a series of productivity initiatives in the June 2014 half year.
in total, lower average realised prices raised the capacity of our integrated supply chain and supported for copper and iron ore reduced underlying eBit by uS$1.4 billion.
a uS$1.8 billion increase in underlying eBit.
Despite the impact nickel and aluminium prices rallied towards the end of FY2014 of natural field decline, stronger volumes in our Petroleum Business but remained lower on average for the period, reducing underlying generated an additional uS$994 million of underlying eBit, eBit by a further uS$258 million.
reflecting 73 per cent growth in onshore uS liquids volumes and a near doubling of production at atlantis.
the value of diversification was again evident as higher average realised prices for our petroleum products increased underlying eBit Prices by uS$219 million.
in this context, the average price achieved for lower average prices reduced underlying eBit by uS$3.4 billion our natural gas sales book, covering domestic and international in FY2014.
markets, increased by 16 per cent.
Price-linked costs decreased underlying eBit by uS$80 million during the period, primarily reflecting higher royalty charges in our Petroleum and iron ore Businesses.
62 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15.3 Operating results continued Controllable cash costs Depreciation and amortisation expense included the following impairment charges: a uS$292 million charge at energy Coal a broad-based improvement in productivity underpinned a decrease South africa: a uS$184 million charge related to minor Gulf in controllable cash costs of uS$1.9 billion during the period, being of Mexico assets: and a uS$68 million charge associated with a decrease in operating cash costs of uS$1.5 billion and a decrease our decision to allow the exclusivity agreement for terminal 5 in exploration and business development costs of uS$398 million.
at the Port of Vancouver united States to lapse.
Operating cash costs a uS$300 million charge related to the revision of mine site the Groups commitment to further improve the competitive position rehabilitation provisions for the Groups north american closed of its assets delivered tangible results in FY2014 as operating cash mines and a lower capitalisation rate for deferred stripping costs declined by uS$1.5 billion.
a general increase in labour and at escondida and Pampa norte also contributed to the increase contractor productivity had the greatest impact, increasing in non-cash charges.
underlying eBit by uS$1.3 billion.
Asset sales an improvement in equipment productivity increased underlying the divestment of liverpool Bay more than accounted for the eBit by a further uS$268 million as contract stripping activities were uS$53 million increase in underlying eBit related to asset sales.
further optimised at Queensland Coal.
a reduction in consumable costs in our aluminium, Manganese and nickel Business more than Ceased and sold operations accounted for a uS$33 million decrease in Group supply costs.
underlying eBit from ceased and sold operations decreased by Exploration and business development uS$492 million in FY2014 and largely reflected: a uS$143 million negative adjustment to the Browse divestment price: the closure the Groups exploration expenditure declined by 25 per cent in of the nickel West leinster Perseverance underground mine FY2014 to uS$1.0 billion as we sharpened our focus on greenfield in november 2013: and the cessation of aluminium smelting copper porphyry targets in Chile and Peru, and high-impact liquids activities at Bayside in June 2014. opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico, Western australia and trinidad and tobago.
the associated reduction in the Groups exploration Other expense increased underlying eBit by uS$331 million, while a other items increased underlying eBit by uS$215 million and further decline in business development expenditure increased largely reflected an increase in margins at our equity accounted underlying eBit by uS$67 million.
investments and an uS$84 million profit related to the sale of Other costs the energy Coal South africa optimum Coal purchase agreement.
a uS$112 million uK pension plan expense in our Petroleum Exchange rates Business is also reported in this category.
a stronger uS dollar increased underlying eBit by uS$1.8 billion and included the restatement of monetary items in the balance Net finance costs sheet, which reduced underlying eBit by uS$352 million.
average net finance costs of uS$1.2 billion decreased by uS$100 million and closing exchange rates for FY2014 and FY2013 are detailed from the prior period.
this was primarily related to a decrease in note 1 accounting policies to the Financial Statements.
of uS$245 million in net interest expenses, which was partially offset by a decrease in interest capitalised of uS$108 million.
Inflation on costs inflation had an unfavourable impact on all Businesses and reduced Taxation expense underlying eBit by uS$805 million during FY2014.
this was most total taxation expense, including royalty-related taxation, exceptional notable in australia, Chile and South africa, which accounted for items and exchange rate movements, was uS$7.0 billion, representing over 85 per cent of the total variance.
a statutory effective tax rate of 31.5 per cent 30 June 2013: 35.0 per cent.
Non-cash an increase in non-cash charges reduced underlying eBit Government imposed royalty arrangements calculated by reference to by uS$2.1 billion during the period.
profits are reported as royalty-related taxation.
the Minerals resource rent tax Mrrt reduced taxation expense by uS$238 million in a uS$631 million increase in the depreciation and amortisation charge FY2014 30 June 2013: increase of uS$321 million as royalty-related at onshore uS reflected the ramp-up of liquids production and the credits in the Coal Business more than offset iron ore Mrrt expense progressive development of our Permian acreage.
We continue to for the period.
this included the remeasurement of deferred expect the depreciation rate in the Permian to normalise at a lower tax assets associated with the Mrrt which decreased taxation level as reserves are booked and the production rate grows towards expense by uS$170 million in the period 30 June 2013: increase 100 Mboe per day over the medium term.
the completion and of uS$207 million.
progressive ramp-up of several major projects in our iron ore and Coal Businesses resulted in an uS$871 million increase in the the Groups adjusted effective tax rate, which excludes the influence depreciation and amortisation expense during the period.
of exchange rate movements, remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with the Mrrt and exceptional items, was 32.5 per cent 30 June 2013: 34.2 per cent.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 63 63 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.3 Operating results continued adjusted effective tax rate is not an iFrS measure and is reconciled to the statutory effective tax rate below: 2014 2013 Profit Income tax Profit income tax before tax expense before tax expense Year ended 30 June US$M US$M % uS$M uS$M % Statutory effective tax rate 22,236 7,012 31.5 19,726 6,906 35.0 less: exchange rate movements 24 245 remeasurement of deferred tax assets associated with the Mrrt 170 207 exceptional items 551 166 1,928 943 Adjusted effective tax rate 21,685 7,040 32.5 21,654 7,397 34.2 other royalty and excise arrangements that are not profit based are recognised as operating costs within Profit before taxation.
these amounted to uS$2.8 billion during the period 30 June 2013: uS$2.6 billion.
Exceptional items Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2014 US$M US$M US$M Sale of Pinto Valley 551 166 385 551 166 385 on 11 october 2013, BHP Billiton completed the sale of its Pinto Valley mining operation for a cash consideration of uS$653 million, after working capital adjustments.
a gain on sale of uS$385 million after tax expense was recognised in FY2014.
refer to note 3 exceptional items to the Financial Statements for more information.
Gross tax net Year ended 30 June 2013 uS$M uS$M uS$M exceptional items by category Sale of Yeelirrie uranium deposit 420 420 Sale of richards Bay Minerals 1,212 183 1,029 Sale of diamonds business 97 42 139 Sale of east and West Browse Joint Ventures 1,539 188 1,351 impairment of nickel West assets 1,698 454 1,244 impairment of Worsley assets 2,190 559 1,631 impairment of Permian Basin assets 266 99 167 other impairments arising from capital project review 1,006 291 715 newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 158 47 111 1,928 943 985 the Group announced the sale of its wholly owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit resulting in a gain on sale of uS$420 million, while the associated tax expense was offset by the recognition of deferred tax benefits on available tax losses.
the Group announced it had completed the sale of its 37.76 per cent effective interest in richards Bay Minerals resulting in a gain on sale of uS$1.0 billion after tax expense.
the Group announced the sale of its diamonds business, comprising its interests in the eKati Diamond Mine and Diamond Marketing operations.
the transaction was completed on 10 april 2013 for an aggregate cash consideration of uS$553 million after adjustments.
an impairment charge of uS$139 million after tax expense was recognised based on the final consideration.
the Group signed a definitive agreement to sell its 8.33 per cent interest in the east Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the West Browse Joint Venture resulting in a gain on sale of uS$1.5 billion being recognised in FY2013.
the associated tax expense of uS$462 million was partly offset by the recognition of deferred tax benefits on available tax losses of uS$241 million and the derecognition of deferred tax liabilities of uS$33 million.
the final sales price was determined during FY2014 requiring a loss of uS$143 million recognised in FY2014.
64 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15.3 Operating results continued as a result of expected continued strength in the australian dollar and weak nickel prices, the Group recognised an impairment charge of uS$1.2 billion after tax benefit at nickel West in FY2013.
the Group recognised an impairment of assets at Worsley as a result of expected continued strength in the australian dollar and weak alumina prices.
a total impairment charge of uS$1.6 billion after tax benefit was recognised.
an impairment charge of uS$167 million after tax benefit was recognised as the performance of specific evaluation wells in certain areas of the Permian Basin united States did not support economic development.
in FY2013, Waio refocused its attention on the capital efficient expansion opportunity that exists within the Port Hedland inner harbour, and all early works associated with the outer harbour development option were suspended.
this revision to the Waio development sequence and the change in status of other minor capital projects across the Group resulted in the recognition of impairment charges of uS$639 million after tax benefit and other restructuring costs of uS$76 million after tax benefit in FY2013, of which uS$580 million after tax benefit were related to Waio.
the Group recognised a decrease of uS$158 million before tax expense to its rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the newcastle steelworks australia.
this followed the completion of the Hunter river remediation Project and reaching agreement with the environment Protection authority in March 2013 regarding the necessary scope of work to repeal the environmental Classification at Steel river.
exceptional items during FY2013 are classified by nature as follows: impairment Closure and of goodwill rehabilitation Year ended 30 June 2013 Sale of and other restructuring provisions uS$M assets assets costs released Gross Sale of Yeelirrie uranium deposit 420 420 Sale of richards Bay Minerals 1,212 1,212 Sale of diamonds business 97 97 Sale of east and West Browse Joint Ventures 1,539 1,539 impairment of nickel West assets 1,698 1,698 impairment of Worsley assets 2,190 2,190 impairment of Permian Basin assets 266 266 other impairments arising from capital project review 898 108 1,006 newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 158 158 3,171 5,149 108 158 1,928 refer to note 3 exceptional items to the Financial Statements for more information.
Third party sales We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party products due to the significant difference in profit margin earned on these sales.
the table below shows the breakdown between our production and third party products.
2014 2013 2012 1 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M Group production revenue 64,227 63,067 66,969 related operating costs 41,410 40,264 39,017 underlying eBit 22,817 22,803 27,952 underlying eBit Margin 35.5% 36.2% 41.7% Third party products revenue 2,979 2,886 3,508 related operating costs 2,935 2,759 3,374 operating profit 44 127 134 2 Margin on third party products 1.5% 4.4% 3.8% 1 excluding exceptional items.
2 operating profit divided by revenue.
We engage in third party trading for the following reasons: Production variability and occasional shortfalls from our own assets means that we sometimes source third party materials to ensure a steady supply of product to our customers.
to optimise our supply chain outcomes, we may buy physical product from third parties.
in order to support the development of liquid markets, we will sometimes source third party physical product and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 65 65 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.4 Cash flow analysis a Consolidated Cash Flow Statement is contained in the Financial Statements.
the explanatory notes appear in note 23 notes to the consolidated cash flow statement to the Financial Statements.
a summary table has been presented below to show the key sources and uses of cash.
2014 2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M uS$M uS$M Cash generated from operations 31,384 28,793 32,987 Dividends received 1,284 721 722 net interest paid 839 786 412 taxation paid 6,465 8,574 8,038 Net operating cash flows 25,364 20,154 25,259 Purchases of property plant and equipment 15,993 22,243 18,637 exploration expenditure 1,010 1,351 2,493 exploration expenditure expensed and included in operating cash flows 716 1,047 1,644 Purchases of intangibles 192 400 219 investment in financial assets 1,193 475 471 investment in subsidiaries, operations and jointly controlled entities 12,556 investment in equity accounted investments 44 84 83 net proceeds from investing activities 1,882 4,780 330 Net investing cash flows 15,834 18,726 32,485 net proceeds repayment of from interest bearing liabilities 910 7,157 8,644 Share buy-back 83 Dividends paid 6,639 7,004 6,220 Contribution from non-controlling interest 1,435 73 101 other financing activities 354 424 403 Net financing cash flows 6,468 198 2,039 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3,062 1,230 5,187 net operating cash flows after interest and tax increased by 26 per cent to uS$25.4 billion in FY2014.
the decrease in net taxes paid was attributed to lower income tax payments in the year of uS$1.2 billion in line with our lower effective tax rate and income tax refunds of uS$852 million.
net investing cash outflows decreased by uS$2.9 billion to uS$15.8 billion during the period.
this reflected a uS$6.6 billion reduction in capital and exploration expenditure partially offset by a decline in proceeds from asset sales of uS$2.9 billion.
expenditure on major growth projects totalled uS$13.1 billion, including uS$5.6 billion on petroleum projects and uS$7.5 billion on minerals projects.
Sustaining capital expenditure and other items totalled uS$2.9 billion.
exploration expenditure was uS$1.0 billion, including uS$716 million classified within net operating cash flows.
net financing cash flows included the proceeds from interest bearing liabilities of uS$6.3 billion and contributions from non-controlling interests of uS$1.4 billion.
Proceeds from interest bearing liabilities included the issuance of a four tranche Global Bond of uS$5.0 billion.
these inflows were more than offset by debt repayments of uS$7.2 billion and dividend payments to our shareholders of uS$6.4 billion.
66 BHP Billiton annual rePort 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.15.5 Net debt and sources of liquidity our policies on debt and treasury management are as follows: a commitment to a solid a credit rating: gearing to be a maximum of 40 per cent: diversification of funding sources: generally to maintain borrowings and excess cash in uS dollars.
Gearing and net debt net debt, comprising interest bearing liabilities less Cash and cash equivalents, was uS$25.8 billion, which represented a decrease of uS$1.7 billion compared with the net debt position at 30 June 2013.
Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets, was 23.2 per cent at 30 June 2014 compared with 26.8 per cent at 30 June 2013.
Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2014 was uS$8.8 billion compared with uS$5.7 billion at 30 June 2013. included within this were short-term deposits at 30 June 2014 of uS$7.1 billion compared with uS$3.2 billion at 30 June 2013.
Funding sources During FY2014, the Group issued a four tranche Global Bond totalling uS$5.0 billion comprising uS$500 million Senior Floating rate notes due 2016 paying interest at three-month uS dollar liBor plus 25 basis points, uS$500 million 2.050 per cent Senior notes due 2018, uS$1.5 billion 3.850 per cent Senior notes due 2023, and uS$2.5 billion 5.000 per cent Senior notes due 2043. none of our Group level borrowing facilities are subject to financial covenants.
Certain specific financing facilities in relation to specific Businesses are the subject of financial covenants that vary from facility to facility, but which would be considered normal for such facilities.
our maturity profile for uS dollar bonds, euro bonds and australian dollar bonds for the following five years is set out below.
in May 2014, the uS$5.0 and uS$1.0 billion revolving credit facilities expiring in December 2015 and December 2014, were replaced by a uS$6.0 billion revolving credit facility.
the new facility has a five-year maturity with two one-year extension options.
the facility is used for general corporate purposes and as backup for the commercial paper programs.
the interest rates under these facilities are based on an interbank rate plus a margin.
the applicable margin is typical for a credit facility extended to a company with the Groups credit rating.
the Group had no uS commercial paper outstanding in the market at the end of the financial year 2013: uS$1.3 billion.
additional information regarding the maturity profile of our debt obligations and details of our standby and support agreements is included in note 29 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements.
the Groups credit ratings are currently a1 P-1 Moodys long-term short-term and a a-1 Standard & Poors long-term short-term.
the ratings outlook from both agencies did not change during FY2014.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 67 67 1 Strategic report continued 1.15.6 Other information Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk We identified our primary market risks in section 1.15.1 of this Annual Report.
A description of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative and qualitative information about our market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at 30 June 2014, is contained in note 29 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements.
Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual commitments information in relation to our material off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments for capital expenditure and commitments under leases at 30 June 2014 is provided in note 21 Contingent liabilities and note 22 Commitments to the Financial Statements.
Subsidiary information information about our significant subsidiaries is included in note 26 Subsidiaries to the Financial Statements.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are outlined in note 32 Related party transactions to the Financial Statements.
Significant changes since the end of the year Significant changes since the end of the year are outlined in note 36 Subsequent events to the Financial Statements.
the Strategic Report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman Dated: 11 September 2014 68 BHP Billiton AnnuAl RePoRt 2014
