Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Adequacy of information and explanations received In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the this responsibility.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Directors remuneration inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified Other matter by law are not made, We have no exceptions to report arising from We have reported separately on the parent company financial these responsibilities.
statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described Corporate governance statement as having been audited.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
James Bichard Senior Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent companys Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
London We have nothing to report having performed our review.
27 February 2015 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
