Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Profit for the year 236.4 298.7 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Defined benefit pension fund losses gains 16 a 9.8 9.4 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 8 2.4 2.3 7.4 7.1 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations, net of designated hedges 9 a 3.4 16.0 Net unrealised losses on assets designated as available-for-sale 12 b 0.1 Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified 8 0.5 0.5 2.8 15.5 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 4.6 8.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 231.8 290.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 231.9 290.3 Non-controlling interests 0.1 231.8 290.3 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 113 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 Attributable to owners of the Parent Company NonShare Share Other Treasury Retained controlling Total equity capital premium reserves shares earnings Total interests and reserves For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 142.0 311.3 112.4 18.8 1,131.2 1,678.1 0.5 1,678.6 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 4.6 236.5 231.9 0.1 231.8 Employee share option schemes: share-based payment reserve 2.0 0.7 2.7 2.7 proceeds from shares issued 0.1 2.0 0.4 1.7 1.7 Dividends paid 10 131.2 131.2 131.2 Deferred tax relating to share option schemes 8 0.6 0.6 0.6 Issue of new shares 17 a 0.3 0.3 0.3 Changes in non-controlling interests in subsidiaries 3 0.1 0.1 2.7 2.6 Transactions with the owners of the Group for the year 0.4 1.3 2.7 131.6 127.2 2.7 124.5 At 31 December 2014 142.0 311.7 109.1 16.1 1,236.1 1,782.8 3.1 1,785.9 Attributable to owners of the Parent Company NonShare Share Other Treasury Retained controlling Total equity capital premium reserves shares earnings Total interests and reserves For the year ended 31 December 2013 Note m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 141.2 300.4 121.6 20.8 954.7 1,497.1 0.6 1,497.7 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 8.4 298.7 290.3 290.3 Employee share option schemes: share-based payment reserve 0.5 0.5 0.5 proceeds from shares issued 0.1 2.0 0.9 1.2 1.2 Dividends paid 10 121.3 121.3 0.1 121.4 Deferred tax relating to share option schemes 8 0.3 0.3 0.3 Issue of new shares 0.8 10.8 11.6 11.6 Transactions with the owners of the Group for the year 0.8 10.9 0.8 2.0 122.2 109.3 0.1 109.4 At 31 December 2013 142.0 311.3 112.4 18.8 1,131.2 1,678.1 0.5 1,678.6 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Amlin plc 114 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Consolidated statement of financial position At 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 12 a 204.8 164.5 Financial assets 12 b 4,390.3 4,368.8 Reinsurance assets reinsurers share of outstanding claims 13 a 305.9 343.1 reinsurers share of unearned premium 13 c 44.0 45.1 Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables insurance and reinsurance receivables 13 e 1,046.9 1,013.8 other loans and receivables 12 c 85.5 88.4 Deferred acquisition costs 13 d 270.7 246.1 Current income tax assets 11.6 23.0 Deferred tax assets 8 5.7 6.1 Property and equipment 14 35.9 22.6 Goodwill and intangible assets 15 267.4 239.1 Investments in associates 18 b 7.0 12.5 Total assets 6,675.7 6,573.1 Equity and reserves Share capital 17 a 142.0 142.0 Share premium 311.7 311.3 Other reserves 17 b 109.1 112.4 Treasury shares 16.1 18.8 Retained earnings 1,236.1 1,131.2 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,782.8 1,678.1 Non-controlling interests 3.1 0.5 Total equity and reserves 1,785.9 1,678.6 Liabilities Insurance liabilities outstanding claims 13 a 2,928.2 2,897.1 unearned premium 13 c 1,168.4 1,093.9 Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables insurance and reinsurance payables 13 f 196.2 273.3 other payables 12 d 178.6 137.5 Financial liabilities 12 b 28.6 4.7 Current income tax liabilities 0.6 0.1 Borrowings 12 e 262.1 391.6 Retirement benefit obligations 16 a 41.4 32.6 Deferred tax liabilities 8 85.7 63.7 Total liabilities 4,889.8 4,894.5 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 6,675.7 6,573.1 The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 112 to 116 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by: Charles Philipps Richard Hextall Chief Executive Chief Finance & Operations Officer Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 115 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Profit before tax 258.7 325.7 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 14,7 g 5.4 7.4 Amortisation charge 15,7 g 10.7 11.2 Finance costs 7 f 27.0 29.0 Interest income 6 22.0 30.4 Dividend income 6 22.9 16.3 Gains on investments realised and unrealised 6 56.4 96.5 Gain on revaluation of existing investment 3 a, 4 c 11.4 Other non-cash movements 3.0 1.5 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net sales purchases of financial investments 12 b 71.5 92.1 Foreign exchange gains losses on investments 12 b 8.9 28.9 Increase in loans and receivables 14.6 0.4 Decrease in insurance and reinsurance contract assets 5.2 120.7 Increase decrease in insurance and reinsurance contract liabilities 28.5 152.9 Increase decrease in other payables 11.4 2.9 Decrease increase in retirement benefit obligations 1.0 1.1 Foreign exchange gains on long-term borrowings 0.3 Foreign exchange losses gains on other non-operating assets and liabilities 9.6 5.8 Cash generated from operations 293.8 127.9 Interest received 20.1 21.5 Dividends received 22.9 16.3 Income taxes received paid 13.2 0.1 Net cash inflows from operating activities 350.0 165.6 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 2.0 8.8 Deferred payment for acquired subsidiary 0.4 0.2 Investments in associates 4.8 0.9 Purchase of property and equipment 16.5 7.5 Purchase and development of intangible assets 9.9 2.3 Net cash outflows from investing activities 20.0 17.9 Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares, including treasury shares 1.7 12.8 Dividends paid to owners of the Parent Company 10 131.2 121.3 Purchase of non-controlling interest 3 b 0.4 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 0.1 Interest paid 22.1 24.4 Purchase of ESOT and treasury shares 4.0 5.5 Net repayment of borrowings 12 e 131.8 24.1 Net cash outflows from financing activities 287.8 162.6 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 42.2 14.9 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 164.5 190.6 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.9 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12 a 204.8 164.5 The Group includes cash flows from purchase and disposal of financial assets in its operating cash flows as these transactions are generated by the cash flows associated with the origination and settlement of insurance contract liabilities or capital requirements to support underwriting.
The attached notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Amlin plc 116 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies and critical Going concern accounting judgements and estimates The Groups business, risk and financial management, performance Amlin plc the Company is a public limited company registered in and position, together with factors that are likely to affect future England and Wales.
The address of the registered office is: St Helens, development, are described in the Financial Review section of this 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
Capital management strategy, which covers how regulatory and economic capital needs are measured and how The basis of preparation, basis of consolidation and significant capital is deployed, is described on page 61.
The financial position of the accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Amlin plc and Group, including commentary on cash and investment levels, currency subsidiaries the Group consolidated financial statements are set management, insurance liability management, liquidity and borrowings, out below.
is also covered in that section.
In addition, note 2 describes capital management needs and policies, note 13 g covers underwriting risk, Basis of preparation and note 12 h covers market, liquidity and credit risk which may affect These consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the financial position of the Group.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRICs, as adopted for use The Group has considerable financial resources to meet its financial in the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements needs and, in much of the Group, manages a mature portfolio of comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation and Companies Act 2006. insurance risk through an experienced and stable team.
The Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its business risk The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the successfully in the current economic environment.
historical cost basis except for cash and cash equivalents, financial assets and financial liabilities, share options, contingent consideration After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that and pension assets, which are measured at their fair value.
the Company, and the Group, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Except where otherwise stated, all figures included in the consolidated continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial financial statements are presented in millions of British Pounds Sterling statements.
sterling shown as m rounded to the nearest 100,000.
Changes to financial reporting The accounting policies adopted in preparing these financial statements The Group operates a process of continual review and update of are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups its consolidated financial statements and this has resulted in the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, reorganisation of the notes.
In making changes, the Group has unless otherwise stated.
considered the findings of the Financial Reporting Councils Financial Reporting Lab reports: Accounting Policies and Integration of Related In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance contracts, the Group has applied Financial Information and Towards Clear and Concise Reporting, issued existing accounting practices for insurance contracts, modified as in July 2014 and August 2014 respectively.
The presentation of related appropriate, to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable disclosures enables greater understanding of the Groups performance standards.
Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements have been divided into The financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and 5 sections: subsidiaries, including the Groups underwriting through participation on a Lloyds syndicate.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured Primary pages 112 to 116 contains the Groups consolidated primary entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity statements: when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its Policy, Capital and Business combinations pages 117 to 128 power over the entity.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are includes the critical judgements and accounting policies that have had prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company.
a material impact on financial reporting: together with details of the Consolidation adjustments are made to convert subsidiary financial Groups capital requirements and significant transactions that have statements prepared under different accounting standards into IFRS so occurred during the year: as to remove the effects of any different accounting policies that may exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control is Performance pages 129 to 144 includes the segmental analysis and transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that other notes which are integral to understanding the Groups financial control is transferred out.
performance: All inter company balances, profits and transactions are eliminated.
Position pages 145 to 191 provides details on the key areas of financial position and the Groups approach to management of related Details of principal subsidiaries included within the consolidated financial risks: and statements can be found in note 18.
Other notes pages 192 to 195 covers disclosures required to be compliant with accounting standards or the Companies Act.
This information is important, but less significant to understanding the Groups business and performance.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 117 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies and critical The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and accounting judgements and estimates continued measurement and impairment model applied to the Groups financial Adoption of new and revised standards instruments.
Work is ongoing to quantify the impact of these changes.
a Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations Consideration will also be given to the interaction with emerging effective on or after 1 January 2014 requirements and expected timetable of the IASBs insurance contracts The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs effective project in addressing the Groups classification and measurement as of 1 January 2014: approach.
IAS 36 amended, Impairment of assets Recoverable amount IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers disclosures for non-financial assets In May 2014 the IASB and FASB issued a converged standard on the The amendments remove the requirement to disclose the recoverable recognition of revenue from contracts with customers, applicable for amount when a cash generating unit contains goodwill or indefinite periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, with early adoption 1 life intangible assets but there has been no impairment.
the amendments require additional information about fair value measurement when the recoverable amount of impaired assets is The underlying principle is that an entity will recognise revenue to depict based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The amendments have the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the had no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services, based on the satisfaction of performance objectives.
Investment entities amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities and IAS Adoption of this standard replaces existing revenue recognition guidance 27, Separate Financial Statements applied by the Group, IAS 18 Revenue.
It is not expected to have a IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 have been amended to address the material impact on the Group but could impact the timing and accounting for investments controlled by investment entities.
The recognition of service company commission income.
amendments define an investment entity and require an investment entity to measure its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.
IAS 19 amended, Employee benefits Defined benefit plans: The amendments do not permit the roll-up of fair value accounting employee contributions in the consolidated financial statements of a non-investment entity The amendments apply to contributions from employees or third parties parent.
The amendments have had no impact on the financial to defined benefit plans.
The objective of the amendments is to simplify statements of the Group.
the accounting for contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service, for example, employee contributions that are IAS 39 amended, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement calculated according to a fixed percentage of salary.
The amendments Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting are effective for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2014 and are The amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets of the Group.
The amendments have had no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012, 2011-2013 and 2012-2014 The IASB uses the annual improvements process to make necessary, but b Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations non-urgent, amendments to IFRSs that will not be included as part of a early adopted by the Group major project.
The Group has early adopted the following new and amended IFRSs for the year ended 31 December 2014: The amendments clarify existing guidance and do not give rise to significant changes in existing accounting practice.
The improvements IFRIC 21, Levies are not expected to significantly impact the Groups consolidated The interpretation was endorsed by the EU for periods commencing financial statements.
This has been early adopted by the Group from 1 January 2014 and requires retrospective application.
The The annual improvements are applicable for periods beginning on or interpretation sets out the accounting for a liability to pay levies that are after 1 July 2014 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 cycles and 1 January 1 imposed by governments.
The interpretation requires a liability to be 2016 2012-2014 cycle.
recognised when the obligating event to pay a levy occurs, which might arise at a point in time or progressively over time.
The interpretation has Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 1 had no significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 1 was issued in December 2014 and is applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The c Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations amendment clarifies, rather than specifically changes existing IAS 1 that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group requirements.
The Group has assessed its impact and incorporated some Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations improvements relating to the ordering of notes to the financial statements.
issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
The Group intends to adopt these Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation standards when they become effective.
uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and IFRS 9, Financial instruments assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9, bringing and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Although these together the classification and measurement, impairment and hedge estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events accounting phases of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial and actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
Insurance contract liabilities The most significant estimate made in the financial statements relates to The final standard has a mandatory effective date of 1 January 2018 unpaid insurance claim reserves and related loss adjustment expenses of 1 with early adoption permitted.
Amlin plc Note: 118 Annual Report 2014 1.
Subject to EU endorsement Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an undiscounted basis.
Unpaid Product classification claims reserves acquired through a business combination are measured Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance at fair value, using an applicable risk-free discount rate and having risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make regard to the expected settlement dates of the claims.
Provisions are significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding scenarios that subject to a detailed quarterly review where forecast future cash flows lack commercial substance, at the inception of the contract.
and existing amounts provided are reviewed and reassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held are adjusted through the statement of Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the profit or loss.
Group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the Group and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts During 2014 the Group transitioned to an actuarial-led reserving are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
Insurance contracts process, based on an actuarial best estimate plus an explicit underwritten by the Group under which the contract holder is another management margin, which reflects the risk premium relating to the insurer inwards reinsurance are included within insurance contracts.
uncertainty of the actual level of claims incurred.
The move to an actuarial-led reserving process has refined the judgement about the The significance of insurance risk is dependent on both the probability of profile of risk over the coverage period applied to certain classes of an insured event and the magnitude of its potential effect.
Consequently, changes in the estimate of claims should be not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS 4 are classified as considered in conjunction with the impact on earned premium, financial instruments.
Based on the current assessment, all of the products underwritten by the Although it is possible that claims could develop and exceed the Groups insurance entities are insurance contracts within the scope of reserves carried, there is therefore a reasonable chance of release of IFRS 4.
Certain risk transfer contracts held by the Group, for example reserves from one year to the next.
The estimated provision for the total catastrophe linked instruments, do not meet the definition of an level of claims incurred changes as more information becomes known insurance contract and are therefore accounted for as financial about the actual losses for which the initial provisions were set up.
The instruments in accordance with IAS 39. change in claims costs for prior period insurance claims represents the claims development of earlier reported years incurred in the current Financial assets and financial liabilities accounting period.
The carrying value of the Groups net outstanding The Group uses pricing vendor sources in determining the fair value of claims reserves at 31 December 2014 is 2,622.3 million 2013: financial assets and financial liabilities.
Depending on the methods 2,554.0 million.
In 2014, there has been a net positive development of and assumptions used for example, in the fair valuation of Level 2 and 89.6 million 2013: 133.5 million positive for the Group.
Note 13 i Level 3 financial assets, the fair valuation of financial assets and provides further details of the method the Group applies in estimating financial liabilities can be subject to estimation uncertainty.
Details of insurance contract liabilities.
these methods and assumptions are described in note 12 f. The carrying values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities Insurance contract premium at 31 December 2014 are 4,390.3 million 2013: 4,368.8 million Gross written premium is recognised on insurance contracts incepting and 28.6 million 2013: 4.7 million respectively.
These include during the financial year and includes an estimate of the total premium 262.2 million 2013: 189.6 million of Level 3 investments, expected to be received under each contract.
Revenue recognised on principally comprising property funds.
policies written through contracts with third parties, such as binding authorities and line slips, is deemed to be written in full at the inception Intangible assets of such contracts and therefore this estimate is particularly judgemental.
Intangible assets are recognised on the acquisition of a subsidiary, Adjustments to estimates from previous years are included in the on the purchase of specific rights to renew a particular underwriting reported premium.
portfolio, on the acquisition of syndicate capacity and on internally developed computer software.
With over supply of capital, particularly in the reinsurance market, clients have increasingly requested multi-year placements of their reinsurance The value of intangible assets arising from the acquisition of a programme.
A number of contracts include cancellation clauses which subsidiary, syndicate capacity or on the purchase of renewal rights is can be enforced by the client.
Judgement is therefore required to be largely based on the expected cash flows of the business acquired and applied in calculating the estimated total premium at the inception of contractual rights on that business.
The internally developed computer software principally relates to cost The premium estimation processes use expert judgement, the quality of directly attributable to the development of an IT platform for Amlin the estimate being influenced by the nature and maturity of the portfolio, Europe N. V. and new Group finance systems.
availability of timely data, relevant underwriting input to the estimating process and management review.
Therefore, gross written premium The assumptions made by management on initial recognition and estimates are reviewed on a quarterly basis using underwriter estimates valuation of intangible assets, together with the performance of and actuarial projections.
impairment tests, are subject to estimation uncertainty.
The results of the impairment test may result in the value of the intangible being The estimation of earned premium uses judgement about the profile of impaired in the current period.
Note 15 provides further details on these risk over the coverage period of re insurance contracts.
improvements in those estimates have been made to better reflect the seasonal nature of certain classes of business.
This more closely aligns The carrying value of the Groups intangible assets excluding goodwill the earning of premium with the seasonal basis of reserving claims and at 31 December 2014 is 161.3 million 2013: 150.0 million.
The the impact should be considered in conjunction with the offsetting effect carrying value at the reporting date of goodwill is 106.1 million 2013: of moving to an actuarial-led reserving process.
follow the move to actuarial-led best estimate reserving and the ongoing development of new Group finance systems.
The impact on net earned premium, after acquisition costs, in 2014 is 19.9 million.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 119 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies and critical with IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
accounting judgements and estimates continued Note 12 g provides further details on these investments.
Goodwill impairment The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an LCP valuation annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of The LCP acquisition accounting required significant judgements to the cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated.
Details of the key be made in determining the fair value of the deferred contingent assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amounts are consideration and the original investment held by the Group, in addition contained in note 15. to judgements in respect of control, goodwill and intangible assets referred to above.
The Group has allocated goodwill to cash generating units based on a number of factors, which include how the entitys operations are The deferred contingent consideration was estimated, being payable as monitored.
Judgement was exercised in selecting the forecast used for 2015.
The fair value of the original Tax investment made reference to the consideration for the new stake and Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax market benchmarks, whilst allowing a discount for the absence of regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Note 3 provides further details and the carrying value of wide range of international business relationships and the long-term these items.
nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already Retirement benefit obligations recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable The Group participates in the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities benefit scheme and also operates defined benefit schemes in the of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland.
provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the The amounts included in these financial statements are sensitive to taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
Such differences changes in the assumptions used to derive the value of the scheme of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending assets and liabilities.
on the conditions prevailing in the country of the respective Group companys domicile.
A loss of 9.8 million 2013: 9.4 million gain has been recognised in other comprehensive income and an expense of 6.4 million 2013: Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent 7.2 million has been recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the Note 16 a provides further details on the Groups retirement benefit losses can be utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to obligations.
At 31 December 2014, the Group recognised a liability determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, of 41.4 million 2013: 32.6 million in respect of its defined based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits, benefit plans.
together with future tax planning strategies.
Significant accounting policies The carrying value at the reporting date of the deferred tax asset Insurance contracts liabilities is 5.7 million 2013: 6.1 million, and of the deferred tax liability is Claims paid are defined as those claims transactions settled up to the 85.7 million 2013: 63.7 million.
Further analysis is included in reporting date including internal and external claims settlement note 8. expenses allocated to those transactions.
Determining control of entities Unpaid claims reserves are made for known or anticipated liabilities The Group has made significant judgements and assumptions in under insurance contracts which have not been settled up to the reaching its control conclusions for the following entities: reporting date.
Included within the provision is an allowance for the future costs of settling those claims.
This is estimated based on past i. Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP experience and current expectations of future cost levels.
The Group acquired an additional 25% of the voting rights in LCP on 23 October 2014, taking its ownership to 75%.
Having previously held The unpaid claims reserves also include, where necessary, a reserve for a significant influence over LCP and equity accounted for this as an unexpired risks where, at the reporting date, the estimated costs of investment in associate, a detailed control assessment was performed future claims and related deferred acquisition costs are expected to in accordance with IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements.
exceed the unearned premium provision.
The Group determined that through its rights to appoint board members Some insurance contracts permit the Group to sell usually damaged with a majority of the voting rights over the relevant activities and its property acquired in settling a claim for example, salvage.
The Group exposure to variable returns, through its share of growth in the capital may also have the right to pursue third parties for payment of some or value and profits, the Group has control over LCP and it should all costs for example, subrogation.
Estimates of salvage recoveries consolidate from the acquisition date of the additional stake.
LCP is and subrogation reimbursements are included as allowances in the therefore accounted for as a subsidiary and consolidated in the financial measurement of the insurance liability for unpaid claims, and recognised statements at 31 December 2014. in insurance and reinsurance receivables when the liability is settled.
Investment funds Reinsurance recoveries The Group holds financial investments in a number of pooled vehicles, The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance which are typically sub-funds of umbrella structures.
In certain instances contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets the Group may hold a majority of the voting rights in particular subconsist of short-term balances due from reinsurers, as well as longerfunds.
The Group has determined that it neither controls nor significantly term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits influences these sub-funds despite owning a majority of the voting rights, arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts.
Amounts on the basis that direction of the relevant activities of the sub-funds is by recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the the umbrella vehicle, over which the Group has no significant rights.
amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts and in Such entities are accounted for as financial investments in accordance accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract.
Amlin plc 120 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Where there is objective evidence that a reinsurance asset is impaired, Changes in the fair value of these investments are included in other the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
They are tested recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss in the for impairment annually, or when events or changes in circumstances statement of profit or loss.
indicate that impairment might have occurred.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value Insurance contracts premium adjustments recognised in equity are included in the statement of profit Gross written premium comprise premium on insurance contracts or loss as gains and losses from investment securities.
incepting during the financial year together with adjustments to premium written in previous accounting years.
The estimated premium income in Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, respect of facility contracts, for example binding authorities and lineslips, which is the date the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
is deemed to be written in full at the inception of the contract.
These are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently remeasured at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
Transaction costs are Premium is disclosed before the deduction of brokerage and taxes or recognised directly in the statement of profit or loss when incurred.
The proportion of gross written premium, gross of Changes in the fair value of investments are included in the statement commission payable, attributable to periods after the reporting date is of profit or loss in the year in which they arise.
The uncertainty around deferred as a provision for unearned premium.
The change in this valuation is discussed further in note 12 h. provision is taken to the statement of profit or loss in order that revenue is recognised over the period of the risk.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments primarily include currency swaps, Premium is recognised as earned over the policy contract period.
The currency and interest rate futures, currency options, catastrophe linked earned element is calculated separately for each contract on a basis instruments and other financial instruments that derive their value where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
For premium mainly from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates or written under facilities, the earned element is calculated based on the catastrophe risk.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the estimated inception date and coverage period of the underlying date on which a derivative contract is entered into.
subsequently measured at fair value, with their fair values obtained from quoted market prices or, where these are not available, by using Acquisition costs valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred on insurance contracts pricing models.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are written during the financial year.
They are incurred on the same basis recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss unless the as the earned proportions of the premium they relate to.
Deferred derivative is designated as a hedging instrument.
acquisition costs are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed at the As defined by IAS 39, the Group designates certain foreign currency end of each reporting year and are impaired where they are no derivatives as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The longer considered to be recoverable out of future margins in the Group documents at the inception of each hedging transaction the related revenues.
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various Reinsurance premium ceded hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both Reinsurance premium ceded comprise premium on reinsurance at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives arrangements bought which incept during the financial year, together that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting with adjustments to premium ceded in previous accounting years.
The changes in fair values of hedged items.
proportion of reinsurance premium ceded attributable to periods after the reporting date is deferred as reinsurers share of unearned premium.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument related to the effective Reinsurance premium ceded is earned over the policy contract period in portion is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The fair values of accordance with the terms of the reinsurance contract.
derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 12 b.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Financial assets statement of profit or loss when the foreign operation is partially The Group classifies its financial assets at fair value through profit and disposed of or sold.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management Embedded derivatives with risks and characteristics which are not determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
closely related to the host contract, and where the combined instrument is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Other than investments in certain unlisted insurance intermediaries statement of profit or loss, are separated from the host contract and see below, the Group classifies its financial investments at FVPL.
This classification requires all fair value changes to be recognised immediately within the investment return line in the statement of profit Intangible assets or loss.
Within the FVPL category, fixed income securities, equity i.
Goodwill securities, property funds and certain derivatives are classified as Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1999 was written off trading as the Group buys with the intention to resell.
Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 and the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 was capitalised and amortised on All other assets at FVPL are classified as other than trading within the a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Following the transition FVPL category as they are managed and their performance is evaluated to IFRS this goodwill is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004. on a FVPL basis.
Goodwill that was recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or when events The Group has investments in certain unlisted insurance intermediaries or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired, by which are treated as available-for-sale and are measured at fair value, comparing the net present value of the future earnings stream of the unless their fair value cannot be reliably measured, in which case they cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated, against are valued at cost less impairment.
the carrying value of the goodwill and the carrying value of the related net assets.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 121 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies and critical For each business combination, the Group measures any non-controlling accounting judgements and estimates continued interests in the acquiree at the non-controlling interests proportionate ii.
Syndicate capacity share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Lloyds syndicate participations that have been purchased in the Lloyds capacity auctions are capitalised at cost.
Syndicate capacity is Tax considered to have an indefinite life as it will provide benefits over an Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and indefinite future period and is therefore not subject to an annual deferred tax.
The continuing value of the capacity is reviewed for impairment annually by reference to the expected future profit The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit streams to be earned from the cash generating units to which the differs from net profit as reported in the statement of profit or loss intangible asset is allocated, with any impairment in value being because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or charged to the statement of profit or loss.
deductible in other years or that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups and Companys liability for current tax is calculated using iii.
Broker and customer relationships, computer software and other tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the intangible assets reporting date.
The Group recognises intangible assets in respect of rights to broker and customer relationships acquired through business combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts Costs directly attributable to internally developed computer software are of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding capitalised and recognised as intangible.
Other intangible assets, which tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for do not fall under the aforementioned categories, include the recognition using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally of acquired renewal rights to certain underwriting portfolios.
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Costs are recognised as intangible assets where they can be identified available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference recovered by directly related future economic benefits.
Intangible assets arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a are reviewed for impairment losses at each reporting date or whenever business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
These intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in respect of taxable temporary recognised in line with the consumption of the benefits based on the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except estimated useful economic life of the assets, which is estimated to be where the Group and Company is able to control the reversal of the between five and 15 years, and is charged to other operating expenses temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will in the statement of profit or loss.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Business combinations The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting i.
Business combinations before 1 January 2010 date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that The acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the purchase sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset method.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets to be recovered.
given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group at the date of exchange, plus any costs directly attributable to Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively enacted tax rates that are the business combination.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is contingent liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions for recognition realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the statement of profit or under IFRS 3, Business combinations, are recognised at their fair value loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups also charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Business combinations after 1 January 2010 Deferred tax is recognised on the profits of foreign subsidiaries where it The Group applies IFRS 3 revised to all acquisitions taking place on or is reasonably foreseeable that distribution of the profit back to the UK after 1 January 2010. Business combinations are accounted for using will take place and the UK dividend exemption is not expected to apply.
Employee benefits The cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, i.
Retirement benefit obligations liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including Group at the date of exchange.
Under IFRS 3 revised, with the several defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
exception of the costs of registering and issuing debt and securities that are recognised in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39 i. e. as a The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme is a multi-employer defined reduction in proceeds, all other acquisition-related costs are to be benefit scheme.
Amlin Europe N. V. participates in two defined benefit expensed as incurred.
Amlin Re Europes pension scheme is classified as a defined benefit scheme in accordance with IAS 19.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interests.
The excess of the fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Amlin plc 122 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 The defined benefit obligation and associated pension costs are The results and financial position of those Group entities whose calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit functional currency is not sterling foreign operations are translated credit method.
This method sees each period of service as giving rise to into sterling as follows: an additional unit of benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final liability.
The cost of providing these Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented benefits is charged to the statement of profit or loss to spread the are translated at the closing exchange rate at the reporting date: pension cost over the service lives of employees.
Any re-measurements arising from the recognition and funding of the Groups pension Income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss are obligations are recognised in other comprehensive income during the translated at the exchange rates at the date of each transaction, year in which they arise.
or a practical approximation to these rates: and The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect On consolidation, all resulting exchange differences are recognised of defined benefit pension plans is the fair value of plan assets less in other comprehensive income.
the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date, together with adjustments for restrictions on the recognition of a Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a defined benefit asset due to an asset ceiling.
The present value of the foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated operation and translated at the closing rate.
future cash outflows using discount rates set on the basis of the yield of high-quality debt instruments AA rated or equivalent issued by blueWhere contracts to sell currency have been entered into prior to the year chip companies, with maturities consistent with those of the defined end, the contracted rates have been used.
Differences arising on the benefit obligations.
translation of foreign currency amounts on such items are included in other operating expenses.
In respect of the defined benefit schemes in Amlin Europe N. V. and Amlin Re Europe, the fair value of the plan assets reflects the benefits Details of the principal exchange rates used are included in note 9 b. that accrue under the insurance policy taken out to meet its obligations.
Other accounting policies Pension contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the Investment return statement of profit or loss when due.
Dividends and any related tax credits are recognised as income on the date that the related listed investments are marked ex-dividend.
Equity compensation plans equity-settled Other investment income and interest receivable are recognised on The Company operates a number of executive and employee share an accruals basis.
Options issued after 7 November 2002 are accounted for using the fair value method where the cost for providing equity Segment reporting compensation is based on the fair value of the share option or award Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the at the date of the grant.
The fair value is calculated using an option internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
pricing model and the corresponding expense is recognised in the The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating statement of profit or loss over the vesting period.
The accrual for this resources and assessing the performance of the operating segments, charge is recognised in equity shareholders funds.
When the options has been identified as the Amlin Management Committee.
are exercised, the proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share capital for the par value and the surplus to Exceptional items share premium.
Exceptional items are those that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable iii.
Other benefits a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Other employee incentive schemes and long-term service awards, including the Amlin Capital Builder Plan and sabbatical leave, are Investments in associates recognised when they accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
estimated liability for long-service leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the reporting date.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but no control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% Foreign currency translation and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups share of its associates postThe Group and Company present their financial statements in sterling acquisition profits and losses after tax is recognised in the statement of since they are subject to regulation in the United Kingdom and the net profit or loss each year, and its share of the movement in associates net assets, liabilities and income of both are currently weighted towards assets is reflected in the investments carrying values in the statement of sterling.
US dollar and euro revenues are significant but the sterling financial position.
revenue stream is currently material.
Group entities conduct business in a range of economic environments, although these are primarily the UK, Treasury shares USA and continental Europe.
Transactions denominated in foreign Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised currencies are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Any dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
the rates of exchange at the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing in the year in which the asset or liability first arose or, where such items are revalued, at the latest valuation date.
Exchange differences are recognised within Other operating expenses.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 123 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies and critical Earnings per share accounting judgements and estimates continued Earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to shareholders Property and equipment and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Property and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and treasury depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax by the intended use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis to weighted average number of issued shares during the year.
write down the cost of such assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax by the adjusted average number of shares in issue.
The adjusted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary Over period of lease shares, being shares from the Executive Share Option Scheme, LongLeasehold land and buildings or 2% per annum Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, Share 2% to 5% Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave scheme.
Freehold buildings per annum Motor vehicles 33% per annum Leases 20% to 33% Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Computer equipment per annum transfer substantially all the risks and rewards to the Group.
All other Furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements 20% per annum leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the statement The carrying values of property and equipment are reviewed for of profit or loss in the year in which they become payable in accordance impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that with the terms of the lease, which is representative of the time pattern the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the of the Groups benefit.
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the statement of Other operating income profit or loss.
Fee income received on insurance-related services is recognised as the benefits of the services are provided.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and equipment are determined by reference to their carrying amount and are recorded in the statement Dividend distribution of profit or loss.
Repairs and renewals are charged to the statement Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a of profit or loss when the expenditure is incurred.
The freehold land is liability in the Groups and Companys financial statements in the year in not depreciated.
which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Loans and receivables Other payables Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value and Other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently subsequently measured at amortised cost using an effective interest measured at amortised cost.
They represent liabilities to pay for goods rate.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are or services that have been received or supplied in the normal course of recognised in the statement of profit or loss when there is evidence that business, invoiced by the supplier before the year end, but for which the asset is impaired.
These are reversed when the triggering event that payment has not yet been made.
caused the impairment is reversed.
Borrowings Borrowings are stated initially at the consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any difference between amortised cost and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of profit or loss over the period of the borrowings.
Transaction costs on borrowings are charged to the statement of profit or loss over the period of the borrowings.
Finance costs Finance costs mainly comprise interest payable on subordinated loans and the revolving credit facility, together with commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are charged to the statement of profit or loss as finance costs, as incurred.
Fees paid for the arrangement of debt, the revolving credit facility and letter of credit facilities are charged to finance costs over the life of the facility.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments which are believed to be subject to insignificant risk of change in fair value.
Amlin plc 124 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 2.
Capital The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised capital within the Lloyds The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to Central Fund, for which a variable annual levy, for 2014 of 0.5% 2013: owners of the Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and 0.5% of Syndicate gross premium, is payable.
retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity and note 17, and subordinated debt as disclosed in note 12 e. The LCR is expected to be reviewed annually by Lloyds as was the ICA For business planning purposes, account is also taken of the Groups previously and periodically by the PRA.
The PRA expects management debt facilities as disclosed in note 12 e. to apply their rules continuously.
If a firms capital falls below its ECA, steps must be taken to restore capital adequacy.
Due to the nature of The method by which the Group manages its capital base is described the Lloyds capital setting process, FAL requirements are formally on page 61 of the Financial Review section.
assessed and funded twice yearly at discrete periods and must be met for the Syndicate to continue underwriting.
During the current and prior financial years, the Group complied with all external capital requirements to which it is subject.
In addition to At 31 December 2014, Amlin Corporate Member Limited funded the regulatory capital requirements, the Group believes that it should retain agreed FAL requirement of 576.0 million 2013: 540.6 million to a level of capital within the Group to allow it to grow its business in the support underwriting for the 2015 underwriting year.
The increase of aftermath of a major insurance disaster, and also to respond to other 35.4 million is largely driven by changes in underlying risk profile opportunities to enhance long-term growth, for example through reflecting softening market conditions coupled with planned growth.
The overall capital held by the Group is driven by the business mix, nature and objectives of each division and its context The Group does not seek to retain any assets in excess of the Lloyds within the wider Group.
capital requirement within the Lloyds framework and any surplus is paid to the corporate entities in the Group.
Solvency II Solvency II, a new regulatory regime for re insurers in the European Amlin Insurance UK Public Limited Company Economic Area, introduces a new basis for assessing capital.
This Amlin Insurance UK Public Limited Company is also required to hold assessment includes a market-consistent economic balance sheet and a minimum levels of regulatory capital in compliance with the prudential Solvency Capital Requirement, using either an internal model or the rules issued by the PRA.
The MCR for Amlin Insurance UK Public standard formula.
It will impact the Group, Amlin Corporate Member Ltd Limited Company is currently the sterling equivalent of 3.7 million as part of Lloyds and, at a solo level, Amlin Insurance UK Ltd and 2.9 million 2013: 3.7 million and 3.1 million.
In addition to Amlin Europe N. V. and is effective from 1 January 2016. holding overall admissible capital in excess of MCR, Amlin Insurance UK Public Limited Company is required to pass a number of capital The Group is currently implementing the new requirements and, as part tests to demonstrate solvency, with rules restricting admissibility of of the preparatory phase, is providing interim information on this basis certain types of capital.
Other regulated entities UK regulated entities Amlin AG Amlin Corporate Member Limited Amlin AG is supervised by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Amlin Corporate Member Limited, which supports Syndicate 2001, is Authority FINMA as well as the Bermuda Monetary Authority BMA.
required to hold regulatory capital in compliance with the prudential rules issued by the UKs Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and is FINMA supervision is composed of various qualitative assessments, also subject to Lloyds capital requirements, including maintaining Funds governance requirements and minimum solvency levels.
provides regulatory solvency reporting to FINMA, under the rules of Solvency I and the Swiss Solvency Test SST.
Solvency I is based on the Under PRA rules, the corporate member must hold capital in excess of Swiss statutory financial statements and the required capital is the higher of two amounts.
The first is the Minimum Capital Requirement calculated as a fixed percentage of premiums, claims incurred and or MCR, as prescribed by EU directives, calculated by applying fixed net amounts at risk.
The SST is based on an economic view and required percentages to premium and claims and allowing for historic reinsurance capital is derived from an internal capital model.
Whilst the internal model is still subject to final approval by FINMA, it has The second is an Individual Capital Assessment ICA calculated been temporarily approved by FINMA until 31 December 2015.
Amlin internally under the Individual Capital Adequacy Standards ICAS AG calculates available and required capital under the SST using the regime.
The ICA is defined as the level of capital that is required to aforementioned model.
For the year ending 31 December 2013, Amlin contain the probability of insolvency, over a one year timeframe, to no AG calculated a SST ratio of 214%.
The minimum ratio for Solvency I as greater than 0.5% 1:200. well as for the SST is set at 100%.
Amlin AG is expected to exceed the minimum ratios for the year ending 31 December 2014.
Lloyds require the preparation of a Lloyds Capital Return LCR, including a statement of financial position prepared under Solvency II Under BMA regulations, Amlin AG is licensed as a Class IV insurer and principles and the calculation of an ultimate Solvency Capital the minimum solvency margin is the greater of US$100 million, 50% of Requirement uSCR.
The uSCR takes account of one year of new net premiums written in the current financial year, 15% of claims business in full attaching to the next underwriting year and the risks over reserves and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
the lifetime of the liabilities to ultimate.
The requirements include risks for all business attaching to the next underwriting year.
This is an The ECR is calculated on an annual basis through either the Bermuda equivalent recognition of risks and exposures at a 1:200 confidence level Solvency Capital Requirement BSCR model or an approved internal as required under ICAS at Lloyds.
In addition, as a Class IV insurer, Amlin AG is required to maintain a minimum liquidity ratio such that the value of relevant For the final capital requirement, the Economic Capital Assessment assets is not less than 75% of its relevant liabilities.
Amlin AG ECA, Lloyds take the to ultimate LCR and apply an uplift currently calculated an ECR of US$543.1 million for the year ending 31 December at 35%.
This is then subject to a minimum of 40% 2013: 40% of the 2013, and is expected to have an ECR for the year ending 31 December Syndicates agreed premium capacity limit.
At 31 December 2014, the 2014 that exceeds the minimum requirements.
agreed ECA as a percentage of the agreed underwriting capacity for the following underwriting year was 50.0% 2013: 46.4%.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 125 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 2.
Capital continued For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion of capital, which is currently in excess of the minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
Amlin Europe N. V. Amlin Europe N. V. is required to hold regulatory capital in compliance with the rules issued by its regulator fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB, and as prescribed by EU directives.
DNB supervision comprises various qualitative assessments, governance requirements and minimum solvency levels.
Currently Amlin Europe N. V. provides regulatory solvency reporting to DNB, under the rules of Solvency I.
At 31 December 2014, the minimum required capital for Amlin Europe N. V. amounted to 88.7 million 2013: 95.8 million.
The minimum capital requirement is calculated by applying fixed percentages to premiums and claims.
At 31 December 2014, Amlin Europe N. V. complied with external capital requirements.
For trading purposes, Amlin Europe N. V. holds capital in excess of the minimum required by the DNB.
Amlin plc 126 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 3. Business combinations a Acquisition of subsidiary Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP On 23 October 2014, the Group increased its interest in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP to 75% for consideration of US$29.1 million 18.1 million, payable over a three year period.
The acquisition is a key part of the Groups strategy to continue to provide its clients with a comprehensive range of reinsurance products.
This acquisition increases the Groups interest in the partnership from 40% to 75% and its share of the voting rights from 50% to 75% and consequently control has been assessed as passing to the Group.
LCP is an investment fund manager wholly focused on structuring and managing insurance linked investment portfolios for institutional investors.
At 31 December 2014, LCP had funds under management of US$1,880.8 million 1,206.3 million equivalent 2013: US$1,591.8 million: 961.0 million equivalent.
The provisional acquisition-date fair value of the total consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired and resulting goodwill are as follows: m Initial cash consideration 4.1 Fair value of equity shares issued 0.3 Fair value of contingent consideration 13.7 Total purchase consideration 18.1 Fair value of previously held investment in LCP 16.7 Non-controlling interest in net assets of LCP 3.0 37.8 Fair value of assets acquired see below 17.4 Goodwill 20.4 The assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date are as follows: Fair value and Acquirees accounting carrying policy amount adjustments Fair value m m m Cash and cash equivalents 6.1 6.1 Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables Other receivables 6.9 6.9 Goodwill and intangible assets 15.1 15.1 Total assets 13.0 15.1 28.1 Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables other payables 0.6 6.2 6.8 Current income tax liabilities 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax liability 3.0 3.0 Total liabilities 0.6 10.1 10.7 Net assets acquired 12.4 5.0 17.4 The goodwill shown above relates to the premium paid for the opportunities for further growth through a more comprehensive product offering, the potential to exploit synergies, and the ability of the Group to leverage its existing presence in the reinsurance market to attract new business to LCP.
No provision for impairment of goodwill has been made at the acquisition date.
The total amount of goodwill which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes is nil.
A liability of US$22.1 million 13.7 million is recognised as of the acquisition date for contingent consideration.
This is calculated based on the discounted cash flow model that has been used in determining the fair value of LCP.
The core acquisition consideration is split into three tranches, the first payable at the acquisition date.
The remaining amounts are payable in June 2015 and May 2016 with 90% payable in cash and 10% payable in Amlin plc shares.
The total consideration has been capped at US$110.0 million.
The outcomes are based on pre-tax profits and earnings multiples and the undiscounted range of the final amount payable is US$nil nil to US$110.0 million 68.6 million.
The Groups existing 40% interest in LCP, held as an investment in associate and equity accounted, is re-measured at the acquisition date to fair value of US$26.7 million 16.7 million and deemed part of the consideration paid by the Group to obtain control of LCP.
Accordingly, the fair value of the investment is included in the determination of goodwill.
Re-measuring the carrying value of the investment in associate gives rise to a gain of US$18.3 million 11.4 million.
This is shown under the line item Gain on revaluation of existing investment within the consolidated statement of profit or loss.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy the Non-controlling interest is calculated as the proportionate share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets of LCP.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 127 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3. Business combinations continued a Acquisition of subsidiary Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP continued The gross contractual amount of receivables as of the acquisition date is 6.9 million and are all expected to be received within the next 12 months.
An intangible asset of 15.1 million has been recognised, representing the fair value of acquired customer relationships.
The assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date are stated at their provisional fair values and may be amended during the following 12 months if further evidence of the appropriate fair values is received, in accordance with paragraph 45 of IFRS 3, Business combinations.
A new priority distribution and bonus scheme was introduced, for partners and employees respectively of LCP, at acquisition.
30% of the businesss operating profit will be available for incentivisation.
As part of this arrangement there is a scheme to protect the non-controlling interest in the event that a partner leaves.
A component of the priority distribution will be retained undistributed within LCP and will be distributed in a future period to any partner when they reduce their partnership interest on retirement or departure from the business.
An enhanced profit share arrangement has been put in place for the non-controlling interest.
For the 2014 and 2015 accounting years, the enhanced profit share will be 48.3% and 36.7% respectively, before reducing to reflect the non-controlling interest in LCP of 25% thereafter.
The enhanced profit share is accounted for as remuneration.
The undeclared priority distributions, bonus awards and profit share for 2014 to the date of acquisition have been accrued as part of the fair value adjustments of the acquired net assets, and included in Other payables as 6.2 million.
Total acquisition-related costs were 0.9 million.
Of these costs 0.7 million is recognised as an expense within Other operating expenses for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The remainder of the acquisition-related costs were incurred in 2013.
LCP generated 0.6 million of profit for the Group from the acquisition date to 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition of LCP had been on 1 January 2014, its profit generated for the year to 31 December 2014 would have been 4.2 million.
b Purchase of non-controlling interest in Amlin Plus Limited On 20 May 2014, the Group acquired the 40% non-controlling interest in Amlin Plus Limited for consideration of 0.4 million, resulting in a 0.3 million reduction to the non-controlling interest and a 0.1 million decrease in other reserves.
The acquisition supports the Groups strategy to develop its equine and bloodstock business.
Amlin plc 128 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 4.
Segmental reporting a Basis of segmentation Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the management information reviewed during the year by the chief operating decision maker that is used to make strategic decisions.
All operating segments used by management meet the definition of a reportable segment under IFRS 8, Operating segments.
Segments represent the distinct units through which the Group is organised and managed.
Segments are as follows: Amlin London, consisting of the Reinsurance, Property & Casualty, and Marine & Aviation business units, underwritten via Syndicate 2001: Amlin UK, underwriting commercial insurance in the UK domestic market, via Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Insurance UK Limited: Amlin Bermuda, which writes predominantly property reinsurance business, via Amlin AG, including reinsurance ceded by Syndicate 2001: Amlin Re Europe, which writes continental European non-life reinsurance business, via Amlin AG: Amlin Europe, including Amlin Europe N. V. a leading provider of marine, corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium: specialised, commercial SME property and casualty business in Germany and specialty business in France: and Other corporate companies, comprising all other entities of the Group including holding companies.
Included within the intra group items column are consolidation adjustments, primarily eliminating transactions between segments.
Consolidation adjustments relating to transactions within segments that were previously reported through the intra group items column, are now reported through the segment to which the adjustment relates.
The most significant impact is in respect of service company commission income recognised as acquisition expenses in Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin Europe.
The segmental analyses for the comparative year have been restated accordingly.
Investment return generated from centrally managed investments and managing agency expenses that were previously reported through the other corporate companies column, are now reported through segments that support the business.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the chief operating decision maker is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insured is located.
Prior-year geographic disclosures have been re-presented to reflect this.
Management considers its external customers to be the individual policyholders, and as such the Group is not reliant on any individual customer.
During 2014, management reviewed the Group operating structure.
As from 1 September 2014, the Group changed its structure to operate as three Strategic Business Units SBU : Reinsurance, Marine & Aviation and Property & Casualty.
Reporting to the chief operating decision maker for the 2015 financial year will reflect the change in allocation of responsibility and the financial statements will be adjusted accordingly.
As a result, unaudited comparable SBU financial information for 2014 has been included in the Underwriting management section of the Annual Report on page 48 for the first time.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 129 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 4.
Segmental reporting continued b Segmental information Segmental information for the reportable segments of the Group is provided below.
Included within the gross written premium of Amlin Bermuda is premium ceded from Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin Europe amounting to 221.0 million on reinsurance contracts undertaken at commercial rates 2013: 197.8 million.
The table below illustrates the claims, expense and combined ratio excluding whole account quota share WAQS intra group reinsurance arrangements: Excluding WAQS intra group Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Amlin reinsurance arrangements London UK Bermuda EuropeEurope Total Claims ratio 50% 74% 49% 76% 50% 56% Expense ratio 34% 30% 29% 24% 40% 33% Combined ratio 84% 104% 78% 100% 90% 89% Amlin plc 130 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Other Intra Restated Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Amlin corporate group Income and expenses by business segment London UK Bermuda Europe Europe companies items Total Year ended 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m Analysed by geographic segment: UK 189.2 269.6237.825.618.9 217.0 524.1 North America 621.5 11.6 203.2 2.3 838.6 Europe 89.9 21.340.3171.7435.6 1.7 757.1 Other 234.2 31.570.711.2 347.6 Gross written premium 1,134.8 334.0 552.0 210.8 454.5 218.7 2,467.4 Net written premium 775.1 279.4 500.4 173.8 385.4 6.7 2,107.4 Gross earned premium 1,086.7 333.4 560.3 207.1 469.8 216.7 2,440.6 Reinsurance premium ceded 351.9 58.8 53.8 40.9 65.2 207.4 363.2 Net earned premium 734.8 274.6 506.5 166.2 404.6 9.3 2,077.4 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 439.8 216.9 249.4 148.2 241.0 142.2 1,153.1 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers 119.7 46.8 1.6 24.3 14.6 147.0 60.0 Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 210.5 65.8 83.5 32.8 70.8 12.5 450.9 Underwriting expenses 86.0 38.7 25.5 16.5 91.2 7.6 250.3 Profit attributable to underwriting 118.2 149.7 7.0 16.2 6.0 283.1 Investment return 41.0 11.2 51.7 2.3 44.5 24.2 14.5 160.4 Other operating income 2.5 0.8 1.0 0.1 1.1 0.2 1.4 4.3 Other non-underwriting expenses 25.9 3.7 9.4 0.9 15.7 37.1 4.3 97.0 Result of operating activities 135.8 8.3 193.0 5.5 46.1 12.7 14.2 350.8 Finance costs 29.0 Share of profit after tax of associates 3.9 Profit before tax 325.7 Claims ratio 44% 62% 49% 74% 56% 52% Expenses ratio 40% 38% 21% 30% 40% 34% Combined ratio 84% 100% 70% 104% 96% 86% Note: Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular reportable segments.
The table below illustrates the claims, expense and combined ratio excluding whole account quota share WAQS intra group reinsurance arrangements: Restated Excluding WAQS intra group reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Amlin arrangements London UK Bermuda EuropeEurope Total Claims ratio 47% 65% 40% 74% 56% 52% Expenses ratio 35% 33% 28% 30% 40% 34% Combined ratio 82% 98% 68% 104% 96% 86% Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 131 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 4.
Segmental reporting continued c Reconciliation between management information and the consolidated statement of profit or loss The table below shows the reconciliation between the management information provided to the chief operating decision maker and the consolidated statement of profit or loss.
Year ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 December 2013 IFRS IFRS Consolidated Consolidated Management Reconciling statement of Management Reconciling statement of information items profit or loss information items profit or loss m m m m m m Gross written premium 2,564.0 2,564.02,467.4 2,467.4 Net written premium 2,278.9 17.0 2,295.9 2,107.4 18.2 2,125.6 Gross earned premium 2,476.4 2,476.42,440.6 2,440.6 Reinsurance premium ceded 293.0 17.2 275.8 363.2 17.2 346.0 Net earned premium 2,183.4 17.2 2,200.6 2,077.4 17.2 2,094.6 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 1,306.8 1,306.8 1,153.1 1,153.1 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers 83.6 83.6 60.0 60.0 Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 473.0 473.0 450.9 450.9 Underwriting expenses 241.2 241.2 250.3 250.3 Result attributable to underwriting 246.0 17.2 263.2 283.1 17.2 300.3 Investment return 118.5 17.2 101.3 160.4 17.2 143.2 Other operating income 8.0 8.0 4.3 4.3 Other non-underwriting expenses 101.9 101.9 97.0 97.0 Result of operating activities 270.6 270.6 350.8 350.8 Finance costs 27.0 27.0 29.0 29.0 Share of profit after tax of associates 3.7 3.7 3.9 3.9 Gain on revaluation of existing investment 11.4 11.4 Profit before tax 258.7 258.7 325.7 325.7 The reconciling items relate to items of income and expense under the Group's risk transfer contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd, the risk periods of which incepted on 1 January 2012 and 1 July 2013 respectively.
From a management information perspective, these instruments are insurance linked and therefore these balances are included within the Group's profit attributable to underwriting in the segmental information provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Under IAS 39, the instruments are classified as derivatives and therefore such items of income and expense are reported through investment return in the Group's consolidated statement of profit or loss.
d Non-current assets by location The Groups non-current assets, consisting of Property and equipment, Goodwill and intangible assets, and Investments in associates are 310.3 million 2013: 274.2 million of which 178.3 million 2013: 151.0 million is located in the UK and 132.0 million 2013: 123.2 million is located in foreign countries such as Bermuda, the US and continental Europe.
Amlin plc 132 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 5.
Underwriting activities a Net earned premium 2014 2013 Note m m Gross earned premium Gross written premium 4,13 c 2,564.0 2,467.4 Change in unearned premium 87.6 26.8 2,476.4 2,440.6 Reinsurance premium ceded Reinsurance premium payable 13 c 268.1 341.8 Change in reinsurers share of unearned premium 7.7 4.2 275.8 346.0 2,200.6 2,094.6 b Net insurance claims 2014 2013 Note m m Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 13 a 1,387.2 1,303.6 Reduced costs for prior-period insurance claims 13 a 80.4 150.5 1,306.8 1,153.1 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers 13 a 74.4 77.0 Increased reduced income from prior-period insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 13 a 9.2 17.0 83.6 60.0 1,223.2 1,093.1 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 133 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 6.
Investment return 2014 2013 Note m m Investment income dividend income 22.9 16.3 interest income 20.5 27.5 cash and cash equivalents interest income 1.5 2.9 44.9 46.7 Net realised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 26.0 25.6 debt securities 50.5 71.9 property funds 0.1 3.6 derivative instruments 5.7 6.2 derivative instruments relating to the Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd 4 c 17.9 15.7 on assets classified as other than trading participation in investment pools 1.7 2.0 54.5 81.2 Net unrealised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 26.0 44.7 debt securities 19.2 48.9 property funds 5.5 0.4 derivative instruments 10.0 19.0 derivative instruments relating to the Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd 4 c 0.7 1.5 on assets classified as other than trading other 1.1 1.6 1.9 15.3 101.3 143.2 Note: Included within debt securities held for trading are realised losses and unrealised gains of 1.7 million and 4.8 million respectively, relating to the investment in the funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP 2013: 0.2 million realised gains and 3.9 million unrealised gains.
Amlin plc 134 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 7.
Expenses a Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 2014 2013 Note m m Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts deferred during the year 13 d 501.0 458.2 Changes in deferred expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 28.0 7.3 473.0 450.9 b Other operating expenses 2014 2013 m m Expenses relating to underwriting Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 133.5 132.6 Lloyds expenses 20.2 20.9 Other administrative expenses 83.9 86.3 Underwriting foreign exchange losses 3.6 10.5 241.2 250.3 Other expenses Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 22.4 18.9 Employee incentives and related social security costs 43.7 53.4 Asset management fees 8.9 14.0 Other administrative expenses 20.2 16.1 Non-underwriting foreign exchange losses gains 6.7 5.4 101.9 97.0 343.1 347.3 Employee and other administrative expenses not relating to underwriting represent costs associated with the centrally managed activities of the Group.
c Employee benefit expenses The average number of persons employed by the Group, including individuals on fixed term contracts and Directors, were: 2014 2013 Senior underwriters 132 135 Other underwriters 274 281 Underwriting support 408 377 Claims staff 108 114 Claims support 262 256 Operational 328 292 Operational support 387 407 1,899 1,862 The allocation of headcount has been enhanced to align with the presentation of management information.
The comparative for 2013 has also been updated to reflect this change.
2014 2013 By location UK 1,168 1,123 Continental Europe 634 654 Bermuda 59 51 Singapore 33 30 US 5 4 1,899 1,862 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 135 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 7.
Expenses continued c Employee benefit expenses continued The aggregate payroll costs incurred by Group companies are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 Note m m Wages and salaries 127.2 122.5 Employee incentives and related social security costs 43.7 53.4 Equity-settled share options and awards granted to Directors and employees 7 d 6.2 5.1 Social security costs 17.2 16.5 Other pension costs 16 14.7 15.0 209.0 212.5 d Long-term employee incentive schemes During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group operated a number of long-term employee incentive schemes.
The total cost recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for these schemes is shown below: 2014 2013 Note m m Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 7 c 6.2 5.1 Cash-settled share-based payment schemes 5.3 2.6 Total expense arising from long-term employee incentive schemes 11.5 7.7 i Equity-settled share-based payment schemes Share options Details of the Groups executive and all employee share option schemes are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
A summary of the status and the changes to new or treasury shares under option during the year were as follows: Weighted average Weighted average exercise exercise Number of shares price per share Number of shares price per share 2014 pence 2013 pence Outstanding at 1 January 2,574,934 277 2,676,348 266 Granted during the year 1,103,855 355 506,531 312 Exercised during the year 640,404 254 490,876 247 Forfeited during the year 118,613 289 117,069 289 Total shares outstanding at 31 December 2,919,772 311 2,574,934 277 Total shares exercisable at 31 December 536,895 268 610,953 267 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 451 pence 2013: 430 pence.
The following table summarises information about options outstanding at the end of the year: Number of Number of outstanding Weighted average outstanding Weighted average shares under remaining shares under remaining option contractual life option contractual life Range of exercise prices 2014 years 2013 years 1.12 1.62 62,674 0.25 120,500 1.23 1.63 2.46 23,145 0.42 2.47 2.93 868,792 1.68 1,423,031 2.28 2.94 3.55 1,988,306 3.06 1,008,258 3.51 Amlin plc 136 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Share awards Details of the Groups share awards are set out in the Directors remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
At 31 December 2014, the total awards over new or treasury shares outstanding, or committed to be met by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, or shares held in trust under these schemes are summarised below: Number of shares Number of shares under conditional under conditional award 2014 Vesting period award 2013 Vesting period LTIP grants 5,154,988 2015 to 2017 5,121,807 2014 to 2016 PSP grants 3,123,994 2015 to 2019 2,736,126 2013 to 2018 SIP grants 2,265,938 2010 to 2017 1,630,581 2010 to 2016 Amlin Special 261,636 2015 to 2019 271,248 2014 to 2016 Deferred Share Award 132,149 2017 LTIP and PSP awards are normally exercisable from three and five years after grant respectively.
Modifications to share-based payment arrangements There have been no modifications to share-based payment arrangements in 2014.
Options from the ESOT The trustee of the ESOT held 1,769,796 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2014 2013: 1,962,534 ordinary shares to meet potential future exercises of executive awards and long-term incentive plans.
The ESOT shares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The market value of Amlin plc ordinary shares on the last trading day of the year, being 31 December 2014, was 478.2 pence per share 2013: 458.9 pence per share.
The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOT are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements.
The ESOT waives the right to dividends on ordinary shares in excess of 0.01 pence per each share ranking for an interim or final dividend.
Fair value of options and awards At 31 December 2014, the weighted average fair values of options and awards granted during the year were 58.80 pence per option and 233.45 pence per award respectively 2013: 60.57 pence and 157.51 pence.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to determine the fair value of the option grants and share awards listed above.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average share price on grant pence 400.11 377.10 Weighted average exercise price pence 306.49 282.61 Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00% Expected life years 1.00 5.25 3.00 5.25 Risk-free rate of return 1.00% 3.00% 1.00% 4.50% Expected dividend yield 5.00% 7.00% 5.00% 7.00% Volatility The volatility of Amlin plcs share price is calculated as a normalised standard deviation of the log of the daily return on the share price.
In estimating 30% volatility, the volatility of return for six months, one year and three year intervals are considered.
As a guide to the reasonableness of the volatility estimate, similar calculations are performed on a selection of Amlins peer group.
Interest rate The risk free interest rate is consistent with government bond yields.
Dividend yield The assumptions are consistent with the information given in the financial statements for each relevant valuation year.
Staff turnover The option pricing calculations are split by staffing grades as staff turnover is higher for more junior grades.
Furthermore, historical evidence suggests that senior employees tend to hold their options for longer whereas more junior levels within the organisation appear to exercise earlier.
In addition, senior employees hold a larger proportion of the options but represent a smaller group of individuals.
Market conditions The Group issues options that include targets for the Groups performance against a number of market and non-market conditions.
Failure to meet these targets can reduce the number of options exercisable.
In some circumstances, no options may be exercised.
Assumptions are made about the likelihood of meeting the market and non-market conditions based on the outlook at the time of each option grant.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 137 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 7.
Expenses continued d Long-term employee incentive schemes continued ii Cash-settled share-based payment shemes Capital Builder Plan The Group rewards senior underwriters through payments under the Capital Builder Plan the Plan if they achieve performance below the target loss ratio for their class es of business or business area over the five-year period of each award under the Plan.
Under the scheme rules, the Group has the option to settle the awarded bonus in the shares of the Company or as a cash payment.
Provision for payments of an award under the Plan is calculated every year where actual profits exceed the target profit on a cumulative basis over the performance period to date under the Plan.
The rate of accrual for each five-year performance period is determined at the start of the period, reflecting the share of the excess return payable and committed under the terms of the Plan.
Under this approach, the services received and the related liability are recognised as the services are rendered, in that the liability at any point in time for the Plan reflects the level of actual performance by underwriters in relation to the target.
The carrying amount of the liability under the Plan at 31 December 2014 is 6.9 million 2013: 4.8 million and is recorded in other payables.
e Directors remuneration The aggregate remuneration of the Directors of the Company, including amounts received from subsidiaries, was: 2014 2013 m m Remuneration of Executive Directors 3.4 3.6 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 0.6 0.6 Amounts excluding equity-settled share options and awards receivable under long-term incentive schemes 1.7 2.5 5.7 6.7 Pension contributions 0.1 0.1 5.8 6.8 Details of Directors remuneration, pension benefits and gains on the exercise of share options, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
Payments were made to both a defined benefit pension scheme and a stakeholder defined contribution scheme for two 2013: two Executive Directors and to a stakeholder defined contribution scheme for one 2013: one other Executive Director.
f Finance costs 2014 2013 m m Letter of credit commission 1.3 1.8 Revolving credit facility 2.3 3.2 Subordinated debt interest 19.4 19.5 Other similar charges 4.0 4.5 27.0 29.0 Amlin plc 138 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 g Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following amounts: 2014 2013 Note m m Depreciation 14 5.4 7.4 Amortisation 15 10.8 11.2 Operating lease expenditure 20 b 9.9 9.6 Foreign exchange losses 7 b 10.3 5.1 Fees paid to the Groups auditors in respect of the financial year are set out below: 2014 2013 000 000 Audit Audit of the Groups and Companys annual financial statements 157.5 151.6 Audit of subsidiaries 1,023.8 966.7 1,181.3 1,118.3 Assurance services Audit-related assurance services 277.8 286.9 Other assurance services 12.0 19.3 289.8 306.2 Services relating to taxation Tax advisory services 3.0 40.0 3.0 40.0 Other non-audit services Other services 38.6 202.3 38.6 202.3 Total fees 1,512.7 1,666.8 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 139 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 8.
Tax 2014 2013 m m Current tax current year Corporate income tax 0.6 13.7 Foreign tax 1.6 2.8 2.2 10.9 Current tax adjustments in respect of previous years Corporate income tax 2.0 0.1 Deferred tax current year Origination and reversal of temporary differences 19.3 41.5 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of previous years Movements for the year 4.9 1.9 Impact of change in UK tax rate 2.1 5.6 2.8 3.7 Income tax expense 22.3 27.0 In addition to the above, tax of 1.9 million 2013: 1.8 million charge has been credited directly to other comprehensive income as follows: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax on defined benefit pension fund actuarial losses gains 2.4 2.3 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 2.4 2.3 Current tax on foreign exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations, net of designated hedges 0.6 0.5 Deferred tax charged on other items within the other comprehensive income 0.1 Income tax on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.5 0.5 Taxes credited charged to other comprehensive income 1.9 1.8 In addition to the above, tax of 0.6 million 2013: 0.3 million has been charged directly to other reserves as follows: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax relating to employee share option schemes 0.6 0.3 Taxes charged to other reserves 0.6 0.3 The cumulative tax in reserves was 30.8 million 2013: 29.5 million, as per note 17 b. Reconciliation of tax expense The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 21.5% 2013: 23.25%, whereas the tax charged for the year ended 31 December 2014 as a percentage of profit 2013: profit before tax is 8.6% 2013: 8.3%.
The reasons for this difference are explained below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 m % m % Profit before tax 258.7 325.7 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 55.6 21.5 75.7 23.3 Non-deductible or non-taxable items 1.8 0.7 2.9 0.9 Tax rate differences on foreign subsidiaries 33.9 13.1 45.0 13.8 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.9 1.1 2.0 0.6 Irrecoverable foreign tax 1.6 0.6 2.8 0.8 UK deferred tax rate change 2.1 0.8 5.6 1.7 Income tax expense 22.3 8.6 27.0 8.3 Amlin plc 140 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Deferred tax The deferred tax asset is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Other Provisions for Other Pension temporary losses provisions provisions differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2013 28.2 1.5 8.3 22.2 15.8 Amounts charged credited to statement of profit or loss 12.9 0.8 1.9 16.3 2.3 Amounts charged credited to statement of other comprehensive income 2.3 0.5 1.8 Amounts charged to statement of changes in equity 0.3 0.3 Amounts netted off against deferred tax liabilities 9.0 9.0 Other movements 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2013 15.3 2.3 4.1 15.6 6.1 Amounts credited charged to statement of profit or loss 1.3 1.3 0.3 4.9 2.6 Amounts credited charged to statement of other comprehensive income 2.4 0.5 1.9 Amounts charged to statement of changes in equity 0.6 0.6 Amounts netted off against deferred tax liabilities 1.4 1.4 Other movements 0.2 0.1 2.0 2.3 At 31 December 2014 16.8 3.6 6.3 21.0 5.7 Deferred tax assets of 3.0 million, 6.4 million and 7.1 million 2013: 2.4 million, 9.4 million and 3.2 million have been recognised in respect of tax losses arising in Amlin AG federal taxes only, Amlin Europe N. V. and Amlin plc respectively.
These assets have been recognised as management consider it probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
The deferred tax liability is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Other Underwriting Unrealised Syndicate temporary results capital gains capacity Intangibles differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 7.2 13.2 6.8 9.7 5.4 27.9 Amounts charged credited to statement of profit or loss 27.3 1.9 0.3 1.3 16.3 40.1 Opening balances recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 5.6 0.2 5.8 Amounts netted off against deferred tax assets 9.0 9.0 Other movements 0.6 0.5 1.1 At 31 December 2013 20.1 10.7 6.5 14.0 12.4 63.7 Amounts credited charged to statement of profit or loss 1.4 2.8 0.5 2.1 19.7 19.5 Opening balances recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 3.0 3.0 Amounts netted off against deferred tax assets 1.4 1.4 Other movements 0.1 0.6 1.4 0.9 At 31 December 2014 18.8 13.5 7.0 14.3 32.1 85.7 The movements disclosed in the tables above have been enhanced to present the impact on individual primary statements.
Comparative information has been re-presented accordingly.
A deferred tax liability of 65.7 million 2013: 37.4 million is expected to crystallise more than 12 months after the consolidated statement of financial position date.
UK tax rate Recent UK budgets have announced changes in the main rate of UK corporation tax.
The current rate of 21.0% was enacted on 2 July 2013 and applies from 1 April 2014.
The final rate reduction announced in the March 2013 budget, also enacted on 2 July 2013, will reduce the main rate to 20.0% and is applicable from 1 April 2015.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 141 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 8.
Tax continued Underwriting profits Underwriting profits and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss on an annual accounting basis, recognising the results in the period in which they are earned.
UK corporation tax on Syndicate 2001s underwriting result is charged in the period in which the underwriting profits are actually paid by the Syndicate to the corporate member subsidiary.
This creates a deferred tax position.
Deferred tax is provided on the underwriting result with reference to the forecast ultimate result of each of the years of account.
Where this is a taxable loss, deferred tax is only provided on the movement on that year of account to the extent that forecasts show that the taxable loss will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax liability before netting off has been recognised on the underwriting result for this accounting period of 19.9 million 2013: 21.5 million liability.
The Group is subject to US tax on US underwriting profits generated by Syndicate 2001.
No provision has been made in respect of such tax arising in 2014 2013: nil as any net provision is likely to be immaterial.
Controlled foreign companies legislation Amlin AG operates in Switzerland as Amlin Re Europe, with the Bermudian business operating as a branch.
The Groups tax provision for 2014 has been prepared on the basis that Amlin AG is non-UK resident for UK corporation tax purposes and is exempt from the UK controlled foreign company regime.
The corporation tax rate for profits earned by the Bermudian branch of Amlin AG is currently nil% 2013: nil%.
The combined rate of Swiss cantonal and federal taxes, applicable to profits arising from the Swiss operation only, is 21.2% 2013: 21.2%.
Deferred tax rate Deferred tax has been provided for at the local tax rate in force when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
Foreign exchange a Net foreign exchange movements The following exchange movements have been charged directly to other comprehensive income: 2014 2013 m m Gains losses on translation of foreign operations: Amlin Bermuda 30.8 17.0 RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. 0.4 0.8 Amlin France SAS 0.2 0.1 Amlin Europe N. V. 8.0 2.1 Amlin Re Europe 0.1 Solo Absolute Bonds & Currency Fund 16.4 1.0 7.0 16.7 Losses gains on translation of intangibles arising from investments in foreign operations 5.5 0.2 Gains on financial instruments that hedge investments in foreign operations 1.9 0.5 Foreign exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations, net of designated hedges 3.4 16.0 b Principal exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in translating foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the production of these financial statements were: Average rate Year end rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 US dollar 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.66 Canadian dollar 1.82 1.61 1.81 1.76 Euro 1.24 1.18 1.29 1.20 New Zealand dollar 1.99 1.91 1.99 2.01 Japanese yen 174.22 152.80 186.79 174.36 Amlin plc 142 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 c Foreign exchange risk The exposures to translation, revaluation and asset liability currency matching risk combine to form the Groups overall exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Groups reporting currency is sterling and significant subsidiary functional currencies are sterling, euro and US dollar.
The Group holds asset and liability balances in major base currencies of sterling, euro, US dollars, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen.
Translation risk Foreign exchange translation risk arises when business is written in non-functional currencies.
These transactions are translated into the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the prevailing spot rate at the inception date of the premium.
Consequently, there is exposure to currency movements between the inception date and the date premium is received.
Claims incurred in non-functional currencies are recorded at the prevailing spot rate on the date of the loss event or suitable equivalent and then translated back from the functional currency at the time a claim is to be settled: therefore the Group is exposed to exchange rate risk between the date the claim is made and the date of settlement.
Revaluation risk The Group is subject to revaluation risk as a result of the translation into the Groups sterling reporting currency of the net assets of the Group entities that have a non-sterling functional currency.
At 31 December 2014, the Group was exposed to net investments in foreign operations balances totalling US$1,302.5 million 2013: US$1,343.8 million and 1,004.0 million 2013: 873.4 million.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The gains recognised in other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 1.5 million 2013: 16.5 million loss.
This reflects the movement in the US dollar rate from 1.66 at the start of the year to 1.56 at the balance sheet date and the movement in the euro rate from 1.20 at the start of the year to 1.29 at the balance sheet date.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, the Group adopts a policy of hedging approximately 50% 2013: 50% of the net currency exposure resulting from the net investments in foreign operations.
For this purpose, the Group uses a combination of subordinated debt, drawdowns on the revolving credit facility and options that are accounted for as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, in accordance with the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
The effective portion of all unrealised and realised gains and losses on the designated portion of the hedging instruments is taken to the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income to match the underlying movement in the valuation of the net investment in foreign operations, with the ineffective portion recognised in consolidated statement of profit or loss.
At the year end, hedges were in place for US$638.0 million 2013: US$702.0 million and 495.0 million 2013: 397.0 million.
The net realised and unrealised gains from hedging recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income during the year was 1.9 million 2013: 0.5 million gain.
In relation to revaluation of the net investment in foreign operations, if the US$ GBP exchange rates were to improve by 10% at 31 December 2014, this would result in an additional exchange gain of 83.5 million recognised in other comprehensive income.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 35.1 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 55.2 million exchange loss through other comprehensive income.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 10.6 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
If the EUR GBP exchange rate were to improve by 10% at 31 December 2014, this would result in an additional exchange gain of 53.9 million recognised in other comprehensive income.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 7.1 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 77.5 million exchange loss through other comprehensive income.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 28.4 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
Asset liability matching by currency risk If a liability in a currency other than the functional currencies of sterling, euro and US dollars is considered to be sufficiently large following a major event, for example such as the 2010 and 2011 New Zealand earthquakes, that currency will be bought and held as a base currency to cover the potential liability.
Underwriting assets are primarily held in the base currencies of sterling, euros, US dollars, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen, which represent the majority of the Groups liabilities by currency, thus limiting the underwriting asset liability matching currency risk.
The table below presents the Groups assets and liabilities by currency.
The amounts are stated in the sterling equivalent of the local currency, in order that the amounts can be reconciled to the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The local currency amounts have been converted into sterling using the exchange rates as disclosed in note 9 b.
Foreign exchange continued c Foreign exchange risk continued If the base currencies were to improve deteriorate by 10%, the movement in the monetary net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding foreign operations, would result in the following gains losses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2014: 31 December 2014 10% 10% improvement deterioration Currency m m US dollars 14.1 11.5 Canadian dollars 6.6 5.4 Euro 0.2 0.2 New Zealand dollars 5.0 4.1 Japanese yen 0.7 0.6 26.2 21.4 Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits or losses are converted into sterling.
Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by converting the subsidiaries functional currency profits into the Groups reporting currency.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes, a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but the Group seeks to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
At 31 December 2014, the investment managers held some forward foreign exchange contracts in their portfolios to hedge non-base currency investments.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2014 2013 Group m m Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2013 of 18.2 pence per ordinary share 90.8 31 December 2012 of 16.5 pence per ordinary share 82.4 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2014 of 8.1 pence per ordinary share 40.4 31 December 2013 of 7.8 pence per ordinary share 38.9 31 December 2012 of Amlin Plus Limited to non-controlling interests of 12.0 pence per ordinary share 0.1 131.2 121.4 A final ordinary dividend of 18.9 pence per ordinary share for 2014, amounting to 94.4 million, payable in cash, and a special dividend of 15.0 pence per ordinary share, amounting to 74.9 million, payable in cash, were agreed by the Board on 27 February 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 21 May 2015, and have not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2014.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2014 2013 Profit attributable to owners of the Parent Company 236.5m 298.7m Weighted average number of shares in issue 498.9m 498.1m Dilutive shares 8.6m 7.1m Adjusted average number of shares in issue 507.5m 505.2m Basic earnings per share 47.4p 60.0p Diluted earnings per share 46.6p 59.1p Amlin plc 144 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 12.
Financial assets and liabilities a Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash in hand 168.7 125.8 Short-term deposits 36.1 38.7 204.8 164.5 Cash and cash equivalents represent cash at bank and in hand, short-term bank deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant risk of changes in fair value.
b Net financial investments At valuation At valuation At cost At cost 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Shares and other variable yield securities 652.4 515.9 562.8 452.4 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,978.5 3,128.2 2,853.6 3,069.6 Property funds 255.5 181.0 258.8 185.7 Derivative instruments 32.5 18.9 0.6 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Participation in investment pools 280.6 379.2 280.6 379.2 Deposits with credit institutions 176.7 119.4 176.7 119.4 Other 1.4 2.6 1.4 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets Unlisted equities 6.6 6.7 6.7 6.7 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 6.1 16.9 Total financial assets 4,390.3 4,368.8 4,140.6 4,214.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 21.6 4.7 0.6 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 7.0 Total financial liabilities 28.6 4.7 0.6 Net financial assets 4,361.7 4,364.1 4,140.6 4,214.1 Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled funds, investing in bonds and other fixed income securities.
The valuation of these funds is 1,871.4 million 2013: 1,820.8 million.
Participation in investment pools includes units held in money market funds.
The Group holds hedging and non-hedging derivatives.
Hedging derivatives are designated at inception and qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Non-hedging derivatives either do not qualify for hedge accounting or the option to hedge account has not been taken.
The reconciliation of opening and closing net financial investments is as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 4,364.1 4,199.3 Foreign exchange gains losses 8.9 28.9 Net sales purchases 71.5 92.1 Net realised gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 54.5 81.2 Net unrealised gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 1.9 15.3 Net unrealised losses on assets designated as available-for-sale 0.1 Acquisition through business combination 0.1 Net realised and unrealised gains on derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 3.9 5.0 At 31 December 4,361.7 4,364.1 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 145 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued c Other loans and receivables 2014 2013 m m Other receivables 50.5 63.8 Prepayments and other accrued income 35.0 24.6 85.5 88.4 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current portion 84.4 84.7 Non-current portion 1.1 3.7 85.5 88.4 Other receivables comprise principally of amounts receivable from investment managers for financial investments sold, input VAT and other sundry receivables.
The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
d Other payables 2014 2013 m m Accrued expenses and deferred income 112.5 92.7 Other liabilities 56.5 36.2 Social security and other tax payables 9.6 8.6 178.6 137.5 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current portion 155.4 122.2 Non-current portion 23.2 15.3 178.6 137.5 Other liabilities comprise principally of amounts payable to investment managers for financial investments purchased, collateral repayable on derivative contracts and other sundry payables.
Amlin plc 146 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 e Borrowings 2014 2013 m m Subordinated debt 261.5 289.5 Revolving credit facility 101.4 Other 0.6 0.7 262.1 391.6 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current portion 32.2 101.6 Non-current portion 229.9 290.0 262.1 391.6 Details of the Groups two subordinated debts issued by Amlin plc are as follows: Interest rate Interest rate from reset date to reset date to maturity date Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 The Group has the option to redeem the subordinated debt in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
The Group has contractually agreed to redeem the US$50.0 million subordinated debt in March 2015.
The Directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups subordinated debt is 287.0 million 2013: 326.0 million and nil million 2013: 98.3 million for the revolving credit facility.
The aggregate fair values are based on a discounted cash flow model.
This model uses a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining terms to maturity.
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have a debt facility with its banks which is available until August 2017 and provides an unsecured 300.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances and a secured US$200.0 million letter of credit LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Ltd and Amlin Overseas Holdings Ltd.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global Ltd with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2014, the revolving credit facility was not drawn down 2013: 101.4 million.
In addition to the 100.0 million net repayment of the multicurrency revolving credit facility during the year, a redemption of $50.0 million 31.8 million in subordinated debt was made in November 2014.
Amlin AG has a LOC facility US$280.0 million 2013: US$280.0 million.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc. with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
One further LOC is arranged for NZ$75.0 million 2013: NZ$41.5 million: AU$16.2 million and is secured by time deposits.
As at 31 December 2014, US$216.9 million of LOC were issued 2013: US$268.0 million.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2014 was US$226.0 million 2013: US$286.8 million.
Amlin Europe N. V. has a credit facility with ABN AMRO N. V. as arranger.
The facility provides a daily revocable overdraft of up to 5.0 million 2013: 5.0 million, a guarantee facility to a third party of up to 10.0 million 2013: 10.0 million and a guarantee standby LOC for up to the Euro equivalent of 22.5 million 2013: 22.5 million.
At 31 December 2014, 40.1 million of guarantees were issued 2013: 25.1 million : 17.8 million 2013: 4.3 million from the guarantee facility and 22.3 million 2013: 20.8 million from the guarantee standby LOC.
There are no restricted assets to secure the facility.
The amount drawn on the guarantee facility exceeded the facility granted.
However, this was in agreement with the lender and a new facility limit for 30.0 million replacing the previous facility of 10.0 million was signed on 6 February 2015.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 147 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued f Fair value hierarchy i Fair value methodology For financial instruments carried at fair value the Group has categorised the measurement basis into a fair value hierarchy as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide readily and regularly available quoted prices.
Level 2 Inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs to a valuation model for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs and are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect the assumptions it is considered that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
There were no changes to the valuation techniques during the year.
Shares and other variable yield securities Listed equities traded on a primary exchange in an active market are classified as Level 1.
Available-for-sale unlisted equities represent the Groups investments in broker businesses and do not have a quoted price in an active market.
As such they are valued using a discounted cash flow of future income method adjusted for management expectation of market exit prices which is largely unobservable.
Hence, they have been included in Level 3 with fair value movements being recognised in other comprehensive income.
Debt and other fixed income securities The fair value is based upon quotes from pricing services where available.
These pricing services derive prices based on an average of quotes provided by brokers.
Where multiple quotes are not available, the fair value is based upon evaluated pricing services, which typically use proprietary cash flow models and incorporate observable market inputs, such as credit spreads, benchmark quotes and other trade data.
If such services do not provide coverage of the asset, then fair value is determined manually using indicative broker quotes, which are corroborated by recent market transactions in similar or identical assets.
Where there is an active market for these assets and their fair value is the unadjusted quoted market price, these are classified as Level 1.
This is typically the case for government bonds.
Level 1 also includes bond funds, where fair value is based upon quoted prices.
Where the market is inactive or the price is adjusted, but significant market observable inputs have been used by the pricing sources, then these are considered to be Level 2.
This is typically the case for government agency debt, corporate debt, mortgage and asset-backed securities and catastrophe bonds.
Certain assets, for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
Property funds The Groups property fund portfolios are valued using the most recent net asset value provided by the fund managers.
The net asset values, which may be a quarter in arrears, are determined by the fund managers using proprietary cash flow models.
In such cases, adjustments may be made to bring the net asset value to a more current valuation.
The inputs into that valuation, such as discount rates, are primarily unobservable and, as such, these assets are classified as Level 3.
Where an investment is made into a new property fund the transaction price is considered to be the fair value if it is the most recent price available.
Participation in investment pools These are units held in money market funds and the value is based upon unadjusted, quoted and executable prices provided by the fund manager and these are classified as Level 1.
Derivatives Listed derivative contracts, such as futures, that are actively traded are valued using quoted prices from the relevant exchange and are classified as Level 1.
Over the counter currency options are valued by the counterparty using quantitative models with multiple market inputs such as foreign exchange rate volatility.
The market inputs are observable and the valuation can be validated through external sources.
These are classified as Level 2.
The Groups risk transfer contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd have been classified as derivative instruments.
The valuation of these instruments is based on forecast cash flow models which contain principally unobservable market inputs, and as such are classified as Level 3.
In 2013, the options relating to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, which allowed either the Group or partnership management to purchase the remaining shares and voting rights, were also classified as Level 3.
The valuation of these options was judgemental as no liquid market existed and estimation of future cash flows was highly subjective.
Therefore both a forecast cash flow model and limited observable market data were used in 2013.
Amlin plc 148 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 ii Net financial investments by fair value grouping Fair value hierarchy Fair value hierarchy Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2013 m m m m m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through profit or loss 1 Shares and other variable yield securities 652.4 652.4 515.9 515.9 2 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,722.1 256.4 2,978.52,602.6 525.6 3,128.2 Property funds 255.5 255.5 181.0 181.0 Derivative instruments 32.5 32.5 18.9 18.9 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Participation in investment pools 280.6 280.6 379.2 379.2 Deposits with credit institutions 176.7 176.7 119.4 119.4 Other 1.3 0.1 1.4 0.6 2.0 2.6 Available-for-sale financial assets Unlisted equities 6.6 6.6 6.7 6.7 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 6.1 6.1 16.9 16.9 Total assets 3,833.1 295.0 262.2 4,390.3 3,617.7 561.4 189.7 4,368.8 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 21.6 21.6 4.6 0.1 4.7 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 7.0 7.0 Total liabilities 28.6 28.6 4.6 0.1 4.7 Net financial investments 3,833.1 266.4 262.2 4,361.7 3,617.7 556.8 189.6 4,364.1 Notes: 1.
Comparative hierarchy information for Shares and other variable yield securities have been represented to exclude accrued income as this is shown separately within Other loans and receivables.
The amendments amounted to 0.6 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
Comparative hierarchy information for Debt and other fixed income securities have been represented to exclude accrued income as this is shown separately within Other loans and receivables.
The amendments amounted to 5.3 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
The table above excludes the Groups holdings of cash and cash equivalents of 204.8 million 2013: 164.5 million.
These are measured at fair value and are categorised as Level 1.
The table also excludes the Groups borrowings which are not measured at fair value but for which fair value information is provided in note 12 e. These are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The table also excludes the Groups loans and receivables and other payables, included in notes 12 c and 12 d respectively, which are carried at amounts that approximate to the fair value and are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
The Group holds 6.0% 2013: 4.3% of its net financial investments at a fair value based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions might result in a higher or lower fair value measurement, though this is unlikely to be significant.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 149 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued f Fair value hierarchy continued iii Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels at the end of the relevant reporting period during which the transfers are deemed to have occurred.
There has been no transfer between Levels 1, 2, and 3 during the year or in the comparative reporting year.
The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during 2014: Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2014 181.0 0.1 2.0 6.7 189.6 Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in profit or loss 5.4 17.2 1.2 0.1 13.1 Sales 20.2 20.2 Purchases 86.8 86.8 Settlements 1.5 16.9 15.4 Foreign exchange gains losses 4.0 0.4 0.7 3.7 At 31 December 2014 255.5 0.1 6.6 262.2 Total net unrealised gains for the year recognised in investment return in profit or loss for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting year 2.4 Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 12.2 153.6 0.6 4.7 171.1 Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in profit or loss 0.2 4.1 17.2 1.7 11.2 Sales 10.7 27.2 37.9 Purchases 54.4 2.056.4 Settlements 1.5 2.6 17.1 0.2 12.8 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 1.3 0.1 1.6 At 31 December 2013 181.0 0.1 2.0 6.7 189.6 Total net unrealised losses for the year recognised in investment return in profit or loss for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting year 1.1 Amlin plc 150 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 g Financial risk management The following section describes the Groups investment risk management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
The Group has two main categories of assets: Underwriting assets premium received and held to meet future insurance claims.
Capital assets capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital and surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance The Group manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries the Boards.
These frameworks determine investment governance and the investment risk tolerance.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
Day-to-day management of the investments is delegated to the Investment Management Executive or members of the relevant subsidiarys executive, who are advised by the Chief Investment Officer.
The Amlin Investment Management Committee comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Finance & Operations Officer and Chief Investment Officer, and meets quarterly to consider whether the strategic asset allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges are appropriate to optimise investment returns within the risk tolerances set by the Boards.
Amlin Investments, led by the Chief Investment Officer, is responsible for tactical asset allocation and the appointment of external investment managers and custodians.
Risk tolerance Investment risk tolerances are set by the Board of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
The investment process is driven from the risk tolerance which is determined by reference to factors such as the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flow.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Investment risk is monitored by Amlin Investments using a market-recognised third-party risk model.
Risk reporting is generated by Amlin Investments and an independent review conducted by the Amlin Risk function.
These reports are then circulated to the Amlin Investment Management Committee, the Executive Underwriting & Risk Committee and the Risk & Solvency Committee.
Strategic asset allocation Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has its own strategic asset allocation which is set according to its risk tolerance and liabilities.
1 The strategic asset allocations for capital assets are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance, which ensures that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
The expected timescale for future cash flows in each currency is calculated by the Group Actuarial team: the average of these form the basis of our asset liability duration management.
Tactical ranges around these strategic asset allocations provide flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Investment management Investments are run on a multi-asset, multi-manager basis.
Exposure to the asset classes is achieved using physical holdings of the asset class or 2 derivative instruments and may be managed by Amlin Investments or by outsourced managers, on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
Manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that they will add value to the funds over the medium to long-term.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within investment guidelines or prospectuses applicable to their funds that ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers performance, compliance and risk are monitored on an ongoing basis.
VaR is a statistical measure which calculates the possible loss over a year in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
Segregated funds are managed separately for the Group.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which the Group and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 151 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued g Financial risk management continued The funds under management with each manager are shown below: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Total assets Total Total assets Total Manager m % m % Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 133.2 3.0 257.6 5.8 Artemis Investment Management LLP 370.4 8.3 327.3 7.4 Barclays Bank plc 26.3 0.6 22.6 0.5 Bank of Butterfield 12.9 0.3 12.0 0.3 CBRE Global Collective Investors UK Ltd 134.4 3.0 85.0 1.9 Fiera Capital Corporation Formerly Union Bank of Switzerland 72.3 1.6 Insight Investment Management Global Ltd 112.3 2.5 228.8 5.2 Lloyds Bank plc 14.3 0.3 Townsend Group Europe Ltd 129.3 2.9 109.7 2.5 Veritas Asset Management LLP 332.2 7.5 227.3 5.1 Wellington Management International Ltd 361.3 8.1 407.4 9.2 Pooled vehicles liquidity funds BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd 126.4 2.8 102.8 2.3 Citibank 0.4 0.4 Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 3.0 0.1 2.9 0.1 HSBC Global Asset Management France 39.8 0.9 23.9 0.5 JP Morgan Asset Management 120.0 2.7 Western Asset Management Company 0.1 Pooled vehicles bonds and LIBOR plus funds Bluebay Asset Management LLP 342.0 7.7 330.9 7.6 Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 571.3 12.8 547.0 12.4 H20 AM LLP 584.3 13.2 455.4 10.3 Insight Investment Management Global Ltd 304.7 6.8 71.6 1.6 PIMCO Global Advisers Ireland Ltd 350.0 7.9 439.3 9.9 Wellington Management International Ltd 235.5 5.3 369.8 8.4 Pooled vehicles insurance linked securities Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP 63.7 1.4 62.2 1.4 Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services 111.6 2.5 140.6 3.2 Fiera Capital Corporation formerly Union Bank of Switzerland 37.1 0.8 60.8 1.4 4,454.4 100.0 4,419.7 100.0 Note: The table above excludes the Groups directly held securities of 14.4 million 2013: 29.4 million comprising insurance linked securities 0.7 million 2013: 5.0 million, unlisted equities 5.9 million 2013: 6.0 million and other liquid investments 7.8 million 2013: 18.4 million.
The table also excludes 3.1 million unrealised losses 2013: 10.6 million unrealised gains accruing to a series of foreign exchange contracts placed on behalf of the Group to hedge portfolio currency exposures.
Amlin plc 152 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Asset allocation The total value of investments in the following tables is reconciled to note 12 b, financial assets and financial liabilities, as follows: 2014 2013 m m Net financial investments per note 12 b 4,361.7 4,364.1 Assets liabilities shown separately in the notes to the financial statements: Accrued income 6.3 5.9 Net unsettled payables receivables for investments purchased sold 7.1 32.0 Cash funds held by financial institutions 112.2 59.1 Assets not analysed in the investment asset allocation tables: Liquid investments 2.2 3.2 Unlisted equities 0.7 0.7 Margin and collateral relating to derivative instruments 4.5 2.5 Total investments in asset allocation tables below 4,465.7 4,459.7 The asset allocation of the Groups investments is set out below.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 153 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued g Financial risk management continued The industry and geographical splits were as follows: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Corporate Global Corporate Global bonds equities Total bonds equities Total Industry % % % % % % Oil & gas 4.1 2.7 2.9 7.6 7.8 7.7 Basic materials 0.9 4.1 3.7 1.0 2.7 2.2 Industrials 3.6 14.1 12.6 8.6 13.4 12.0 Consumer goods & services 10.8 18.0 17.0 10.4 22.0 18.4 Healthcare 0.4 23.1 20.0 6.9 18.7 15.1 Government guaranteed 1.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 Telecommunications 3.0 8.6 7.8 5.2 9.2 8.0 Utilities 3.0 1.0 1.2 5.4 1.1 2.4 Financials 71.0 18.7 26.0 50.5 12.3 23.9 Technology 2.1 9.7 8.7 4.2 12.8 10.2 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note: The table above excludes government bonds and pooled vehicles but includes 1.2 million 2013: 1.2 million of corporate bonds with government guarantees.
h Market risk Market risk concerns the risks associated with valuation, interest rates, liquidity and counterparty credit.
Foreign exchange risk is described in note 9 c. Valuation risk Where possible, Group assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the Groups custodians whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual controls reports.
In accordance with their pricing policies, prices are sourced from market recognised pricing vendor sources.
These pricing sources use closing trades or, where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These models typically use broker quotes or other independent valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models using observable or unobservable market inputs.
The Group has an established control framework with respect to fair value measurement which ensures the valuation of financial assets and financial liabilities meets the requirements of IFRS.
As part of this process, the Group reviews the valuation policies of its custodians along with the evidence provided by the custodians to support fair value measurement.
The prices are also reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
As an additional level of governance over pricing, the Group validates the prices provided by pricing vendor sources against information obtained from Bloomberg where available.
A review of stale prices was also conducted at 31 December 2014, though the impact of stale prices on the Groups investment valuation is considered immaterial.
Further details of the fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are included in note 12 f. The valuation of investments is sensitive to equity risk.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total market value of shares and other variable yield securities would be a 6.6 million gain loss 2013: 5.2 million.
Sensitivities in relation to other risks are considered in the following pages and 9 c. Amlin plc 154 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Interest rate risk 1 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
Therefore, the value of the Groups bond holdings is subject to fluctuation as bond 2 yields rise and fall.
If yields fall the capital value will rise, and vice versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its possible price volatility.
Typically, the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings as at 31 December 2014 are shown below.
The duration of underwriting assets is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise and therefore capital values will fall.
The average durations of the bond and cash portfolios for the underwriting assets and associated insurance liabilities as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Underwriting assets liabilities Years Years Years Years Sterling 0.5 4.1 0.3 4.1 US dollar 0.1 2.5 0.7 2.5 Euro 0.1 3.4 0.2 3.4 Canadian dollar 1.0 4.0 1.0 4.0 Note: The table above includes pooled vehicles.
The asset durations above are calculated by the custodian and are checked against those reported by the fund managers.
Liabilities durations are calculated by the Group Actuarial team.
An indication of the potential sensitivity of the value of the bond and cash funds to changes in yield is shown below.
The yield is the rate of return paid if a security is held to maturity.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys expected cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 155 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued h Market risk continued Liquidity risk It is important that the Groups entities can pay their obligations as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis and buffers of liquid assets are held in excess of the immediate requirements.
This is to reduce the risk of being forced sellers of any of the Groups assets, which may result in realising prices below fair value, especially in periods of below normal investment market liquidity.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of cash and debt securities exposed to market risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts at 31 December 2014: Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2014 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 658.2 0.5 658.7 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,871.4 144.8 396.0 235.7 203.8 2,758.1 Property funds 255.5 255.5 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 784.5 784.5 Derivative financial instruments, net 1.3 10.2 8.9 Total 3,568.3 155.5 396.0 235.7 203.8 4,465.7 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Outstanding claims 0.1 1,109.1 1,019.9 388.6 424.9 2,928.2 Less reinsurers share of outstanding claims 117.3 109.8 42.4 38.6 305.9 Total 0.1 991.8 910.1 346.2 386.3 2,622.3 Difference in contractual cash flows 3,568.2 836.3 514.1 110.5 182.5 1,843.4 Note: Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled vehicles of 1,871.4 million 2013: 1,820.8 million which have no stated maturity.
Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2013 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 521.9 0.5 522.4 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,820.8 218.2 563.0 255.1 193.9 2,953.8 Property funds 181.0 181.0 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 769.1 769.1 Derivative financial instruments, net 12.8 20.6 33.4 Total  193.94,459.7 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Outstanding claims 1,083.8 980.4 381.3 463.9 2,897.1 Less reinsurers share of outstanding claims 141.8 100.3 45.7 57.4 343.1 Total 942.0880.1335.6 406.52,554.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 3,305.6 702.7 317.1 80.5 212.6 1,905.7 Liquidity, in the event of a major disaster, is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
Liquidity is supported by pre-arranged revolving credit facilities as detailed in note 12 e. If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the assets.
A breakdown of the current and non-current portions of the other non-derivative financial liabilities is available in notes 12 d, 12 e and 13 f. Amlin plc 156 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to losses if a specific counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations in a timely manner, impacting the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
The Groups credit risk is mitigated by the collateral received from counterparties, details of which are given in note 12 j.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance receivables.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2014 of the exposure of the bond portfolio, liquidity 1 funds and insurance and reinsurance receivables by credit quality.
Insurance and reinsurance receivables includes 748.2 million 2013: 580.7 million of premium receivable from policyholders and 231.2 million 2013: 314.9 million of premium receivable from intermediaries that are not rated.
i Insurance and reinsurance The table above includes premium receivables, representing amounts due from policyholders.
The quality of these receivables is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
Premium credit risk is managed through a number of controls that include broker approval, annual financial review and internal rating of brokers and regular monitoring of premium settlement performance.
Also included are reinsurance receivables, which represent the amounts due at 31 December 2014, as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned risks.
These are stated net of provisions for impairment.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance receivables, including reinsurers share of outstanding claims, is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer and Standard & Poors ratings.
The Group holds collateral from certain reinsurers including those that are non-rated as security against potential default.
The details of reinsurance collaterals held and placed with third party trust funds are provided in note 12 j.
At 31 December 2014, the Group held collateral of 476.8 million 2013: 436.0 million.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the reinsurance assets would be 3.5 million 2013: 3.9 million.
The details of overdue reinsurance assets and insurance receivables are provided in notes 13 a and 13 e. ii Investments As well as failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of government and corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers creditworthiness.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through restrictions on the exposures by credit rating, as determined by the rating agencies, and by holding diversified portfolios.
No bonds held at 31 December 2014 were subject to downgrades during the year 2013: 0.6 million.
The Groups largest non-government counterparty as at 31 December 2014 has an A rating.
The investment held with this counterparty is valued at 98.2 million 2013: 72.3million at 31 December 2014 and comprises solely liquid funds.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 157 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 12.
Financial assets and liabilities continued i Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Groups derivative transactions with respect to over-the-counter options and currency forwards are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting agreements.
Transactions under such agreements meet the criteria for offsetting in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group also receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash in respect of the derivative transactions.
The fair value of the Groups options and currency forwards are not offset by such collaterals as they create a right of set-off that is enforceable only following an event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparties.
The Groups listed futures are transacted under Global Principal Clearing agreements and are not subject to offsetting in the consolidated statement of financial position.
In addition, the Group and its counterparties do not intend to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and the liabilities simultaneously.
The disclosure provided in the tables below include derivatives that are set off in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial assets statement of financial position Gross amounts of liabilities set off in presented in the recognised financial the statement of statement of Financial Cash collateral assets financial position financial position instruments received Net amount 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,575.2 1,542.7 32.5 19.9 12.6 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 78.4 72.3 6.1 2.1 4.0 1,653.6 1,615.0 38.6 22.0 16.6 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial assets statement of financial position Gross amounts of liabilities set off in presented in the recognised financial the statement of statement of Financial Cash collateral assets financial position financial position instruments received Net amount 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,040.5 1,021.6 18.9 0.2 3.7 15.0 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 95.7 78.8 16.9 16.2 0.7 1,136.2 1,100.4 35.8 0.2 19.9 15.7 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial liabilities statement of financial position Gross amounts of assets set off in presented in the recognised financial the statement of statement of Financial Cash collateral liabilities financial position financial position instruments pledged Net amount 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,564.3 1,542.7 21.6 8.4 13.2 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 79.3 72.3 7.0 5.0 2.0 1,643.6 1,615.0 28.6 13.4 15.2 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial liabilities statement of financial position Gross amounts of assets set off in presented in the recognised financial the statement of statement of Financial Cash collateral liabilities financial position financial position instruments pledged Net amount 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,026.3 1,021.6 4.7 0.2 2.4 2.1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 78.8 78.8 1,105.1 1,100.4 4.7 0.2 2.4 2.1 Amlin plc 158 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 j Restricted funds held placed by the Group At 31 December 2014, the Group holds restricted funds in the form of trust fund investments, letter of credit LOC collaterals, initial margin calls on derivative financial instruments and collateral received from reinsurance counterparties.
Trust funds Syndicate 2001 holds gross assets of 3,271.3 million 2013: 3,100.5 million, offset by gross liabilities of 2,703.7 million 2013: 2,557.0 million, which are held within individual trust funds.
The Group cannot obtain or use these assets until such time as each Syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
The Funds at Lloyds, as set out in note 2, represent the restricted capital for regulatory purposes.
Furthermore, 17.7 million 2013: 15.4 million of Amlin Singapore Pte Ltds assets are held within trust funds and restricted from use within the working capital of the Group until settlement has been made to Syndicate 2001.
LOC facilities At 31 December 2014, 145.0 million 2013: 173.1 million of Amlin Bermudas assets are restricted for use by the Group.
These assets are collateral for the LOC facility drawn at the end of the year.
Details are included in note 12 e. At 31 December 2014, Syndicate 2001 recognised 0.7 million 2013: 0.7 million of cash drawn down from LOC facilities as a liability on the consolidated statement of financial position.
This has been received from reinsurance counterparties as a guarantee for business written and is included within total funds held by Syndicate 2001.
Derivative margins and collateral Derivative instruments traded across the Group give rise to collateral being placed with, or received from, external counterparties.
At 31 December 2014, included in other receivables and other payables are 8.6 million 2013: 4.7 million margins and collaterals pledged and 13.0 million 2013: 16.4 million margins and collaterals held respectively in relation to listed futures margins and over-the-counter options.
Collaterals received under reverse repurchase agreements Collateral assets received under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to nil 2013: 26.6 million.
Reinsurance collateral received Collateral of 304.3 million 2013: 259.8 million is held in third party trust funds to guarantee Syndicate 2001 against reinsurance counterparties.
Furthermore, collateral of 151.7 million 2013: 137.6 million and 20.8 million 2013: 38.6 million is held in third party trust funds as a guarantee against reinsurance counterparties to Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe respectively.
Collateral held in third party trust funds is not recognised as assets pertaining to the Group but is available for immediate drawdown in the event of a default.
At 31 December 2014, 0.7 million 2013: 3.5 million of the funds placed in trust by counterparties of Amlin Bermuda were related to specific reinsurance assets.
Insurance collateral placed Syndicate 2001 holds 367.1 million 2013: 374.6 million of collateral in a US trust fund to meet US regulatory requirements, which are recognised as an asset to the Group.
As part of the quarterly reserving process these funds can be released to match paid claims.
Amlin Europe N. V. has 32.7 million 2013: 20.9 million of bank guarantees in place to cover insurance counterparties.
Funds withheld as premium claim deposits At 31 December 2014, the Group had net funds of 23.2 million 2013: 46.3 million placed as claim deposits and net 0.6 million 2013: nil premium deposits placed with receivable from external brokers.
Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Bermuda have placed a further 34.0 million 2013: 16.3 million and 2.5 million 2013: 2.1 million respectively into pledge accounts to collateralise against losses due to reinsurance cedants.
Funds in escrow At 31 December 2014, the Group holds 14.2 million 2013: 14.1 million of funds in an escrow account to meet any potential funding requirements of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund.
Further details are provided in note 16 a. Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 159 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Net outstanding claims 2014 2013 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims Note m m m m m m At 1 January 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 3,083.5 478.6 2,604.9 Claims incurred during the current year 4 a, 5 b 1,387.2 74.4 1,312.8 1,303.6 77.0 1,226.6 Movements arising from prior year claims 4 a, 5 b 80.4 9.2 89.6 150.5 17.0 133.5 1,306.8 83.6 1,223.2 1,153.1 60.0 1,093.1 Claims paid during the year 1,288.7 133.3 1,155.4 1,330.2 183.5 1,146.7 Accretion of fair value adjustment 3.8 0.6 3.2 4.7 0.8 3.9 Other movements 0.5 0.5 Exchange adjustments 9.2 11.9 2.7 14.0 13.3 0.7 At 31 December 2,928.2 305.9 2,622.3 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 In connection with the purchase accounting for the acquisition of Amlin Europe N. V. the Group adjusted outstanding claims and related reinsurers share of outstanding claims to fair value on acquisition.
The reduction to the original carrying value of 39.1 million and 6.4 million to outstanding claims and reinsurers share of outstanding claims respectively is being recognised through a charge to the consolidated statement of profit or loss over the period the claims are settled.
The fair value was based on the present value of the expected cash flows with consideration for the uncertainty inherent in both the timing of, and the ultimate amount of, future payments for losses and receipts of amounts recoverable from reinsurers.
The nominal amounts were discounted to their present value using an applicable risk-free discount rate.
The carrying value at 31 December 2014 of the reduction was 14.1 million and 2.3 million 2013: 19.2 million and 3.1 million to outstanding claims and reinsurers share of outstanding claims respectively.
Further information on the calculation of outstanding claims and the risks associated with them is provided in notes 13 i and 13 g respectively.
Outstanding claims are further analysed between notified outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported below: 2014 2013 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims m m m m m m Notified outstanding claims 2,068.0 254.9 1,813.1 2,125.6 291.0 1,834.6 Claims incurred but not reported 860.2 51.0 809.2 771.5 52.1 719.4 2,928.2 305.9 2,622.3 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 The current and non-current portions for outstanding claims are expected to be as follows: 2014 2013 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims m m m m m m Current portion 1,108.7 118.2 990.5 1,082.5 141.5 941.0 Non-current portion 1,819.5 187.7 1,631.8 1,814.6 201.6 1,613.0 2,928.2 305.9 2,622.3 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 The total reinsurers share of outstanding claims is set out in the table below: 2014 2013 m m Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 324.3 359.0 Less provision for impairment of receivables from reinsurers 18.4 15.9 305.9 343.1 The Group assesses its reinsurers share of outstanding claims for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and credit grades provided by rating agencies.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers share of outstanding claims are shown in note 12 h. As at 31 December 2014 there were 1.7 million 2013: nil reinsurers share of outstanding claims greater than three months overdue.
The Group holds collateral of 26.2 million 2013: 64.6 million in relation to reinsurers share of outstanding claims.
Details are included in note 12 j. Amlin plc 160 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 b Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding Amlin Europe, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
Tables for Amlin Europe have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared on an undiscounted basis and exclude the effect of intra Group reinsurance arrangements.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using average 2014 exchange rates to aid comparability.
In part, this arises from the Groups reserving philosophy which aims to make the most recent years, with the greatest uncertainty of result, prudently reserved leaving a potential for subsequent release.
This differs from the 52.8 million release in reserves stated in the claims development table above because: the table is on an underwriting year basis and the surpluses in this narrative are on an annually accounted basis: the table excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2004 and prior years: and the table excludes Amlin Europe, which is disclosed on an accident year basis and for which net reserve releases are 56.3 million.
The Amlin Europe table also excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2004 and prior years.
Further details on these reserve releases and other aspects of the underwriting performance are included in the Financial Review section on page 57.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 161 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
The Group assesses its insurance and reinsurance receivables for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and for circumstances which may give rise to a dispute or default.
At 31 December 2014, insurance and reinsurance receivables at a nominal value of 55.4 million 2013: 51.2 million were greater than three months overdue and provided for on the basis of credit rating to the value of 11.3 million 2013: 10.8 million.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 167 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued e Insurance and reinsurance receivables continued The ageing analysis of insurance and reinsurance receivables overdue, before impairment provision, is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Not overdue or less than 3 months 1,014.1 981.9 3 to 6 months 21.1 20.3 6 to 9 months 7.9 14.5 Greater than 9 months 26.4 16.4 1,069.5 1,033.1 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents are as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 19.3 18.4 Increase in the provision 8.7 2.8 Utilised provision 0.3 0.7 Release of unused provision 5.1 1.3 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 At 31 December 22.6 19.3 f Insurance and reinsurance payables 2014 2013 m m Insurance and reinsurance payables 196.2 273.3 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2014 2013 m m Current portion 165.7 216.0 Non-current portion 30.5 57.3 196.2 273.3 The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Insurance payables are comprised principally of premium payable for reinsurance, including reinstatement premium.
g Underwriting risk The Group accepts underwriting risk in a range of classes of business through Lloyds Syndicate 2001, Amlin Europe N. V. Amlin AG including its branch operation, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Insurance UK Public Limited Company.
Syndicate 2001s portfolio is underwritten by Amlin London and Amlin UK.
The bias of the Groups portfolio is towards short-tail property and accident risk but liability coverage is also underwritten.
With effect from 1 September 2014 the Group established three Strategic Business Units Reinsurance, Marine & Aviation and Property & Casualty operating across regional and national boundaries to provide a global service.
In underwriting insurance or reinsurance policies, the Groups underwriters use their skill and knowledge to assess each risk.
Exposure information and data on past claims experience is used to evaluate the likely claims cost and therefore the premium that should be sufficient across a portfolio of risks to cover claims costs, expenses and to produce an acceptable profit.
However, due to the nature of insurance risk, there is no guarantee that the premium charged will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
This shortfall may originate either from insufficient premium being calculated and charged or may result from an unexpected, or unprecedented, high level of claims.
A number of controls are deployed to control the amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
Each year a business plan is prepared and agreed by the boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
This plan is used to monitor the amount of premium income, and exposure, written in total and for each class of business.
Progress against this plan is monitored during the year.
Apart from the UK, European and international comprehensive motor liability portfolios, which have unlimited liability, all policies have a per loss limit which caps the size of any individual claim.
For larger sum insured risks, facultative reinsurance coverage may be purchased.
The Group operates line guides that determine the maximum liability per policy that can be written for each class on a gross or net of facultative reinsurance basis by each underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances with the approval of senior management.
The Group is also exposed to catastrophe losses which may impact many risks in a single event.
Reinsurance is purchased to limit the impact of loss aggregation from such events.
These reinsurance arrangements are described in section 13 h. Amlin plc 168 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Insurance policies are written through individual risk acceptances, reinsurance treaties or through facilities whereby the Group is bound by other underwriting entities.
Facility arrangements delegate underwriting authority to other underwriters, or to agents acting as coverholders, that use their judgement to write risks on the Groups behalf under clear authority levels.
The insurance policies underwritten by the Group are reviewed on an individual risk, or contract, basis and through review of portfolio performance.
Claims arising are reserved upon notification.
Each quarter the entire portfolio of business is subject to a reserving process whereby levels of paid and outstanding advised but not paid claims are reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed with a provision for incurred but not reported IBNR claims being made.
Whilst a detailed and disciplined exercise is carried out to provide for claims notified, it is possible that known claims could develop and exceed the reserves carried.
Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR claims and there is a possibility that claims may arise which, in aggregate, exceed the reserve provision established.
This is partly mitigated by the reserving policy adopted by the Group which is to carry reserves in excess of the mean actuarial best estimate.
The review of claims arising may result in underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater for an unexpectedly higher trend of claims advices or payments.
However, this may not be possible in a competitive market and underwriters may respond either by accepting business with lower expected profit margins or declining to renew policies and thus reducing income.
Also, there is a portfolio of risks already underwritten which cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end of the policy period.
The Group is exposed to the impact of large catastrophe events such as windstorms, earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure to such events is controlled and measured through loss modelling.
The Groups broad risk appetite guidelines are set out on page 30.
It is possible that a catastrophe event could exceed the maximum expected event loss.
This is particularly the case for the direct property proportion of the loss exposure, where models are used to calculate a damage factor representing the amount of damage expected to exposed aggregate insured values from a particular scenario.
Errors, or incorrect assumptions in the damage factor calculation, can result in incurred catastrophe event claims higher, or lower, than predicted due to unforeseen circumstances, inadequacies in data, or shortcomings in the models used.
As explained in note 13 h, reinsurance is purchased to protect against the impact of any individual or series of severe catastrophes.
However, the price and availability of such cover is variable and the amount of loss retained by the Group may therefore also increase or reduce.
The Group will alter its insurance and reinsurance exposures to take account of changes in reinsurance availability and cost, capital levels and profitability in order to remain within the risk appetite guidelines.
Sections A, B and C below describe the insurance and reinsurance portfolios written by the Group and the associated risks of such business.
Section D summarises the business written within each group of insurance and reinsurance portfolios.
Property & Casualty portfolios The geographic spread, based on the country in which the insured is located, of Property & Casualty direct insurance and facultative reinsurance portfolios is shown below: 2014 Property & Casualty portfolios % 2013 Property & Casualty portfolios % Gross written premium by geography Gross written premium by geography Europe 4% Europe 4% UK UK 3% 5% 1% 1% North America North America 1% 1% 33% 33% Oceania 1% Oceania 1% 2% 2% Central & S. America 20% Central & S. America Caribbean Caribbean 24% Asia Asia Africa Africa Rest of World Rest of World 29% 35% Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior years.
excludes adjustments in respect of prior years.
A. i Property Property cover is provided to large commercial enterprises with high-value, single locations and or many locations, and also for small commercial property.
The perils covered include fire, flood, wind and earthquake damage.
Business interruption cover is also provided for loss of earnings sustained due to the perils and properties covered but may also be extended to connected enterprises such as suppliers or customers that provide potential for contingent business interruption claims.
Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis, particularly where required by local regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical coverage is excluded from standard property cover in most territories.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 169 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued g Underwriting risk continued Property insurance is written for the full value of the risk, on a primary or excess of loss basis, through individual placements, or by way of delegated underwriting facilities given to coverholders binding authorities.
Binding authority arrangements delegate the day-to-day underwriting to underwriting agents and therefore, for these contracts, the Group is reliant on coverholders exercising underwriting judgement on its behalf.
Coverholders must have local regulatory approval including Lloyds where relevant, and also be approved by internal Binding Authority Committees.
For binding authority facilities, the Group receives monthly or quarterly bordereaux which are checked by underwriting staff.
The underwriting is controlled by setting clear authority levels for coverholders stipulated within the binding authority agreement, regularly monitoring performance and periodically carrying out underwriting visits and or commissioning third-party audits.
The coverholder is incentivised to produce an underwriting profit through the payment of profit commission.
However, with the day to day underwriting not controlled by the Group, there is a risk that coverholder underwriting, or claim decisions, are made which would not have been made by Amlin underwriters or claims staff.
As well as natural catastrophes, the property portfolio is also exposed to an above average frequency of individual fire, explosion or weather related claims.
The premium charged for the coverage given may not be sufficient to cover all claims made in any year, particularly in a year in which there is an abnormal frequency of claims.
The US account is particularly exposed to large catastrophe events, such as California earthquake, tornado and hurricane losses.
In the UK, standalone property protection is written mainly on a 100% basis for small and medium commercial and household properties.
Package policies combine one or more liability coverages mainly employers and public liability with motor and or property damage protection.
The European property account mainly comprises large schedules of properties e. g. for municipalities written on a co-insurance basis in the Netherlands and larger commercial industrial clients in Belgium and France.
Overseas exposure is written mainly from the large commercial industrial portfolio where there are clients or other incidental operations overseas.
The engineering book includes contractors all risks, machinery breakdown and some computer equipment.
These portfolios are exposed to European weather conditions whereby a large windstorm, flood or winter freeze could result in a large number of small claims.
Bloodstock and livestock business are also written within the Property & Casualty business unit of Syndicate 2001.
The bloodstock account provides coverage for death, illness or injury to horses mainly in the UK.
Business from the US, Australia and South Africa is also written.
This covers racing or eventing horses and breeding studs.
The average value insured is below 1 million but there is the potential for an aggregate loss, such as a stable fire, which could cause multiple claims.
The livestock account provides a broad portfolio of protection for livestock and specialist products such as zoo animals, with a maximum line of any one policy of US$10 million.
The Group also writes employers liability cover for livestock business up to a limit of 10 million.
Again, an event affecting several animals across many policies such as disease could result in a loss significantly higher than this.
A. ii Casualty The US casualty insurance account provides insurance cover to individuals, or companies, in order to indemnify them against legal liability arising from their activities and actions or for incidents occurring on their property.
The portfolio is made up of specialist general casualty, professional indemnity, medical malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
Small amounts of directors and officers liability and auto liability are also written.
Professional lines liability cover is written by a dedicated underwriting team.
This class includes professional indemnity cover given to US lawyers, accountants, architects and engineers.
The casualty portfolio is mostly written on a claims notified basis responding to all claims made during a defined period except for small amounts of general liability business which may be written on a losses occurring basis the policy responds to losses which occur during the period even if reported after the policy has expired.
Claims from this class emanate from professional error, negligence or an accident which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
The account is vulnerable to a high frequency of claims, but not to individual large losses as the cost to the Group of any individual claim is lower than property due to line size restrictions.
Claims frequency may be impacted by a generic claim type which impacts many individuals and re insurance policies such as poor housing design or bad medical practice.
The size of many individual claims is subject to the decisions arising from the US court system which can be higher than anticipated.
There is also the potential for US courts to impose a bad faith judgement on insurers if it is deemed that the insurer has acted improperly in trying to avoid contractual obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional circumstances, be much higher than the value of the insurance claim.
The Groups international liability portfolio predominantly protects insureds domiciled in the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands.
An international casualty team was established in 2012 to develop business in other territories, including Canada and Australia.
A portfolio of professional indemnity and general liability business is written in the Netherlands, on a claims made basis with a particular focus on property related professions and miscellaneous professions such as travel operators.
In Belgium, medical liability and general liability are written on a losses occurring basis.
In the UK and Ireland employers liability insurance protects employers against accident or injury to employees.
This is also written on a losses occurring basis.
Amlin plc 170 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Public liability insurance in the same territories provides coverage, often written in conjunction with employers liability, for accident or injury occurring to clients, customers or other third parties as a result of contact with the insureds personnel, property or products.
This is written on a losses occurring basis.
Professional indemnity business written in the UK covers liability which may arise from services provided by the assured, for example, as a result of negligence or error which may lead to financial or physical loss.
This includes, but is not limited to, services from architects, engineers, surveyors, advertising firms, medical professionals and financial advisors.
This portfolio is written on a claims made basis.
Through AUA Insolvency Risk Services Ltd, a Financial Conduct Authority FCA registered broker, the Group writes a portfolio of UK insolvency practitioners business providing protection against fraud or negligence committed by the practitioners.
Such cover also protects the property assets under their management.
The Group also writes a small account of financial institutions policies covering fidelity, professional indemnity and directors and officers liability for companies providing financial services.
Approximately half of the income is from western European financial institutions with the balance spread broadly by territory.
Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
The expected claims costs from these lines of business may be impacted by larger than anticipated damage awards to injured parties, as well as due to an unforeseen increase in generic claims such as industrial disease or other health hazards.
It is expected that claims frequency will increase during an economic downturn as unemployment leads to an increase in action against employers and people are more likely to seek redress for third party advice or behaviour which may have led to financial loss or injury.
It is also possible that multiple claims could arise under multiple policies from a common cause such as financial advice or generic building defects.
The financial institutions account could be affected by a major fraud or a series of related liability claims arising from banking, investment activity, stockbroking or other practices.
A. iii Motor The Groups UK motor insurance account provides protection for fire, theft, collision and third party property and bodily injury liability.
Under the requirements of UK law, third party liability coverage is unlimited, but matching reinsurance is purchased.
The account is biased towards commercial clients such as coach operators, haulage companies, commercial vehicle fleets and company executive fleets.
A small UK agriculture facility, a taxi book and a specialist private car account are also written.
The Benelux commercial motor account is comprised of domestic company fleets including a large leasing and rental fleets, portfolio written in the Netherlands and a smaller portfolio in Belgium.
Cars, vans or commercial vehicles account for over 70% of the book.
Claims frequency has improved in recent years due to car and road safety measures, but can fluctuate due to factors such as weather conditions.
Inflation is a key factor in determining the size of motor claims.
Car values affect the size of theft claims and for physical damage claims size is linked to repair costs.
Inflationary pressure on court awards within the European legal systems impacts liability claim values.
This issue is evidenced in the UK through the provision for Periodic Payment Orders PPOs which spread insurers payment liabilities for bodily injury claims over future years.
Government intervention, such as liability award limit changes or expense recoveries for government bodies, for example the UK National Health Service, will also impact claim size.
For the motor account, severe bodily injury and catastrophe damage claims e. g. UK flood are limited through the purchase of a reinsurance programme, the highest layer of which is unlimited.
Motor insurance is a highly competitive area of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
Whilst underwriters accept business subject to sufficient rates per vehicle, in a year where there is an unexpectedly high level of claims the total premium may not be sufficient to cover all the claims.
There is also a risk that legal changes impact bodily injury payments and result in a requirement to increase reserves for outstanding claims.
Auto business is also written covering property damage only fire, theft and collision in the US and property damage and third party motor liability combined cover in other international territories.
This class could be impacted by unexpected claim frequency, a multi vehicle event, such as a severe flood and also large bodily injury award claims emanating from an accident.
A. iv Personal accident The accident and health class is written through medical expense schemes in the US and direct personal accident cover on a worldwide basis.
Medical expense cover is subject to a high frequency of claim and significant medical cost inflation.
Personal accident insurance could be impacted by a single or series of accidents to high-value insured individuals or from a multiple death and injury event such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
A. v Special risks The direct special risks are subject to detailed financial analysis to manage potential credit risk.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 171 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued g Underwriting risk continued B.
Marine & Aviation portfolios The geographic spread, based on the country in which the insured is located, of Marine & Aviation direct insurance and facultative reinsurance portfolios is shown below: 2014 Marine & Aviation portfolios % 2013 Marine & Aviation portfolios % Gross written premium by geography Gross written premium by geography 3% Europe 3% Europe 3% 3% UK UK 3% 2% 1% 7% North America North America 2% 34% Asia Asia 2% 11% 2% Caribbean Caribbean 44% Central & S. America Central & S. America 18% Africa Africa Oceania Oceania 20% Rest of World Rest of World 21% 21% Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior years.
B. i Hull The hull account is worldwide covering property damage to ships.
Coverage may include machinery breakdown.
The portfolio written includes lower-value tonnage, smaller brown water vessels and fishing boats as well as larger blue water ocean hull risks such as cruise liners, tankers and bulk carriers.
Inland hull and builders risks are also written.
The hull account can be impacted by attritional claims of a small size as well as single individual large claims.
In an economic recession, premium income is likely to fall as trade reduces and hull values are impacted by reduced freight rates.
B. ii Cargo The cargo account is also worldwide and covers loss or damage, to a large variety of cargo or goods in transit.
This portfolio is exposed to small attritional claims and single individual large claims.
The cargo account could be involved in a major natural catastrophe loss or be impacted by an economic recession when claims frequency could increase due to increased economic pressures leading to fraud and theft claims.
The continental European portfolio includes a commodities book for Belgian and French trading corporations.
B. iii Energy The energy portfolio mainly comprises offshore rig and construction policies, which may be impacted by large individual claims from construction fault or property damage such as fire or explosion, but is also exposed to severe catastrophe losses, for example, in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
The account includes control of well to limit loss of oil and avoid pollution and also some business interruption cover which indemnifies companies for loss of production.
B. iv War and terrorism War business includes marine, aviation and on-land terrorism coverage.
The account is exposed to single incidents or a series of losses arising from concerted action.
Political risk, confiscation and contract frustration business is also written.
B. v Yacht Yacht business covers property damage and third party injury for small leisure boats and craft.
The UK domestic account is comprised of smallervalue yachts in the UK and Europe, although there are a number of binders written by coverholders elsewhere, such as Scandinavia, USA, Canada and Australia.
There is an expectation of a large number of small claims, as average values are low in comparison to other policies written in the Group.
Third-party liability yacht claims arise from injury or damage caused by one of our policyholders to third parties.
There is also the potential for a large catastrophe loss, such as a UK windstorm, where there are large aggregate sums insured in coastal regions such as southern England.
Amlin Europe N. V. and Syndicate 2001 write shares of a portfolio of large private yachts.
B. vi Marine liability The marine liability portfolio is written to protect ship-owners, harbours, charterers and energy companies against damage or injury to crew or third parties.
This includes the potential for pollution damage and clean-up claims.
The account could suffer a large catastrophe incident from a collision causing death of crew and passengers or an oil, or chemical, spill which could incur large clean-up costs.
B. vii Specie Specie business consists of the insurance against damage or theft to fine art, the contents of vaults and other high-value goods including jewellers block and cash in transit.
The fine art may be shown at exhibitions which have very high aggregate values at risk.
The class is therefore exposed to the potential for a frequency of small claims and also large individual losses.
Some specie is written in catastrophe zones, for example California, and may be exposed to terrorist events.
Amlin plc 172 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 B. viii Aviation The aviation airline account is exposed to large claims arising from property damage, death or injury arising from aircraft accidents.
The domicile of the airline and passengers has a notable influence on the cost of claims, for example, US court awards are generally higher.
The general aviation account covers smaller aircraft or cargo and covers owners or operators against loss or damage and third party injury.
The risk excess account is a book of general aviation reinsurance business written to protect a small number of insurers against large general aviation claims.
Airport liability insurance covers airport operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers against losses arising from injury caused by their activities or occurring on their premises.
Product liability covers manufacturers against accidents arising from faulty parts or equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
Both airport and product liability coverage is written on a losses occurring basis, meaning that claims advices can be made after the policy has expired.
Space liability insurance covers launch and operation of satellites whilst in orbit for a limited period, normally of one year.
The aviation account is subject to both small and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life or serious injury to high-earning passengers or third parties are subject to the ongoing inflation of court awards particularly in the US.
Large accidents involving the potential death of 500 or more passengers are feasible and could potentially result in a gross claim to the business of more than the vertical reinsurance programme if, for example, two large aircraft were to collide.
C. Reinsurance portfolios The geographic spread, based on the country in which the insured is located, of treaty Reinsurance portfolios is shown below: 2014 Reinsurance portfolios % 2013 Reinsurance portfolios % Gross written premium by geography Gross written premium by geography North America North America 6% 7% 4% Europe Europe 5% 4% 1% UK UK 1% 1% 1% Oceania 4% Oceania 5% 2% 41% Caribbean Caribbean 45% Asia Asia 11% 14% Central & S. America Central & S. America Africa Africa Rest of World Rest of World 24% 24% Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and Note: Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior years.
C. i Property Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance companies against losses, such as windstorm or earthquake, which may impact more than one risk written by the client.
The catastrophe excess of loss portfolio is a key part of the reinsurance risk written by the Group.
These programmes are placed on a layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial exposures, from a number of programmes, are carefully recorded and analysed through loss simulations or realistic disaster scenarios but represent significant loss exposure to natural or man-made catastrophes.
Aggregate excess of loss programmes are also written providing protection in response to multiple loss events.
Per risk property reinsurance is also written on an excess of loss basis but covers loss or damage to any single risk within the reinsureds portfolio.
This portfolio protects insureds against large individual property losses and will also be affected by large catastrophe losses.
Proportional property reinsurance covers a proportionate share of a reinsureds portfolio of business subject to payment of commission and or profit commission.
Proportional property business is normally written with an occurrence limit.
The Groups portfolio of property reinsurance business is written with the aim of achieving territorial diversification.
However, as experienced in 2011, a single or series of severe catastrophes to major economic zones in Europe, Japan, Australasia or the US is likely to result in a loss to the portfolio prior to retrocessional reinsurance.
For each operating division, overall catastrophe loss limits are applied in relation to specific scenarios as an allocation of total Group tolerances.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 173 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued g Underwriting risk continued C. ii Casualty The US casualty reinsurance account provides cover for reinsureds in respect of legal liability arising from insureds activities and actions or for incidents occurring on insureds properties.
The portfolio is written on both an excess of loss and proportional basis but most underlying policies are on a claims notified basis responding to all claims made during a defined period.
The portfolio includes specialist general casualty, professional indemnity, medical malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
US Workers Compensation Act casualty clash excess of loss business may be impacted by large catastrophic events such as earthquake.
International liability reinsurance business is mainly general third party liability protecting companies against significant public or products liability claims, written on a proportional or excess of loss basis.
The liability account also includes some professional liability reinsurance.
The construction and engineering portfolio provides liability and property reinsurance cover for construction projects which may be of several years duration.
C. iii Motor Motor reinsurance is written on a proportional and excess of loss basis.
This portfolio is at risk from increases in frequency or severity of motor accident claims and bodily injury or third party property claims payments which may take several years to settle.
Unlimited and limited motor business is written.
Whilst the original premium and the investment income generated are expected to be more than sufficient to meet such claims, there is no guarantee that this will be the case, particularly due to inflation or superimposed inflation resulting from changes to court awards.
The aim is to diversify the portfolio across several territories in order to reduce the impact of a single legal jurisdiction revising its claims policy.
C. iv Personal accident Personal accident reinsurance is written on a worldwide basis.
Such business could be impacted by a single or series of accidents to high-value insured individuals or from a multiple death and injury event, such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
C. v Marine and aviation The Groups portfolio of aviation and marine excess of loss reinsurance protects insurers against losses to their direct portfolios of business on a worldwide basis.
This will include offshore energy business, specie and other static risks written in reinsured companies marine portfolios.
The marine account, in particular, is exposed to catastrophe losses as well as large individual risk losses.
C. vi Special risks The special risks reinsurance account is predominantly made up of terrorism excess of loss and nuclear reinsurance emanating from all parts of the world and written without excess of loss reinsurance protection.
The portfolio also includes short-term trade credit and contingency business as well as trade credit reinsurance which protects reinsureds against the non-payment of monies or goods or services due from trade partners locally or overseas.
Satellite physical damage cover is also written in the special risks account.
D. Business written and, maximum and average line sizes by operating divisions On the following pages are tables summarising the business written, in both gross written premium and line size, across the insurance and reinsurance portfolios of the Group, per operating division.
The following points apply to each of the tables: Amlin London limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5, Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe limits are set in euros converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 1.2.
Therefore, currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
Amlin London maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe.
Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Gross written premiums are converted to sterling using the year end average rates set out in note 9 b. Amlin plc 174 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Property & Casualty portfolios Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Amlin UK Amlin Europe Amlin London Amlin UK Amlin Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m m i Property Direct and facultative property 122 23 2 Binding authorities 40 2 1 UK Europe property package 124 95 100 42 1 3 Engineering 22 21 3 Bloodstock livestock 21 7 1 ii Casualty International casualty 33 17 6 Casualty 41 3 1 Professional lines 18 13 2 Employers liability 22 27 10 Liability 81 21 2 Public products liability 16 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 6 14 2 Professional indemnity 40 8 2 iii Motor US International auto 51 1 1 UK Europe motor 154 46 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident Accident and health 24 3 2 v Special risks Special risks 6 20 97 21 6 4 Total Property & Casualty 402 316 264 Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Amlin UK Amlin Europe Amlin London Amlin UK Amlin Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m m i Property Direct and facultative property 123 23 2 Binding authorities 41 2 1 UK Europe property package 123 104 52 42 1 3 Engineering 22 21 3 Bloodstock livestock 24 4 1 ii Casualty International casualty 22 17 6 Casualty 31 3 1 Professional lines 13 7 1 Employers liability 25 27 10 Liability 81 11 2 Public products liability 23 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 7 16 2 Professional indemnity 45 16 2 iii Motor US International auto 35 1 1 UK Europe motor 154 43 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident Accident and health 26 3 1 v Special risks Special risks 7 18 97 21 5 4 Total Property & Casualty 322 377 268 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 175 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued g Underwriting risk continued Marine & Aviation portfolios Amlin Amlin London Europe Amlin Gross Gross London Amlin Europe Amlin London Amlin Europe written written Max Max Average Average premium premium line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m i Hull 52 54 17 21 4 2 ii Cargo 41 37 20 21 7 1 iii Energy 66 53 8 iv War and terrorism 33 53 10 v Yacht 336 358 36 vi Marine Liability 40 48 62 67 14 14 vii Specie 15 24 6 viii Aviation Airline hull & liability 18 83 20 General aviation hull & liability 10 57 13 Risk excess 5 69 14 Airports liability 6 57 24 Products 450 22 Total Marine & Aviation 323 145 Amlin Amlin London Europe Amlin Gross Gross London Amlin Europe Amlin London Amlin Europe written written Max Max Average Average premium premium line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m i Hull 47 69 13 21 2 2 ii Cargo 36432021 61 iii Energy 5725 4 iv War and terrorism 3350 9 v Yacht 345 2 vi Marine Liability 39553342 714 vii Specie 1624 6 viii Aviation Airline hull & liability 20 67 23 General aviation hull & liability 14 40 14 Risk excess 4 57 7 Airports liability 8 57 24 Products 550 19 Total Marine & Aviation 313 167 Amlin plc 176 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Reinsurance portfolios Amlin Amlin Amlin Re London Bermuda Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Europe Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m m i Property Catastrophe per programme 279 179 36 50 50 17 5 5 4 Per risk property per programme 54 33 17209172 22 Proportional 53 89 51139172 12 Engineering 28 17 3 ii Casualty Casualty 33 20 7103 1 Liability 40 17 2 iii Motor Motor 61 Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident Accident and health 7 3 1 Personal accident 2 3 7 17 3 1 v Marine and aviation Marine per programme 27 3 8 67 50 17 2 7 1 Aviation per programme 6 27 3 vi Special risks Special risks 38 47 6 33 27 17 4 4 3 Surety 2 4 1 Total Reinsurance 497 373 252 Amlin Amlin Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m m i Property Catastrophe per programme 270 183 33 57 50 17 4 4 3 Per risk property per programme 63 35 16239172 2 2 Proportional 58 73 47 5 9 17 1 1 1 Engineering 2317 2 ii Casualty International casualty Casualty 38 9 3 3 1 1 Liability 2617 1 iii Motor Motor 45Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident Accident and health 9 3 1 Personal accident 2 2 7 17 3 1 v Marine and aviation Marine per programme 27 4 7 76 50 17 2 4 1 Aviation per programme 6 31 2 vi Special risks Special risks 29 35 6 38 27 17 3 3 3 Surety 2 4 1 Total Reinsurance 500 341 207 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 177 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued h Reinsurance and other risk mitigation arrangements Proportional reinsurance is purchased to supplement line size and to reduce exposure on individual risks, notably for large property risks.
Part of the premium ceded under such facilities by Syndicate 2001 is placed with Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe N. V. Since 2009, a separate proportional facility has protected the excess of loss reinsurance portfolio through a Special Purpose Syndicate SPS at Lloyds, Syndicate 6106.
The SPS was not renewed at 1 January 2014.
The Group purchases a number of excess of loss reinsurances to protect its portfolio from severe frequency or size of losses.
The structure of these programmes and type of protection bought will vary from year to year depending on the availability and price of cover.
On large risks, individual facultative reinsurance may be purchased to protect against a loss to that specific risk.
Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is purchased for certain portfolios of business.
The amount of cover bought depends upon the line size written for each class.
The deductibles, or amounts borne prior to recovery, vary from class to class as do the amounts of co-reinsurance or unplaced protection.
Specific programmes are purchased to protect against large individual risk losses, such as fire or large energy losses, and these programmes may be combined at a higher level into a general programme for larger losses.
The combined claims from several policies which may aggregate in a single catastrophe event are protected by catastrophe cover.
UK and European direct property accounts are protected by a European property catastrophe programme.
There is also a worldwide catastrophe programme protecting direct and facultative property business.
A separate retrocessional excess of loss programme is purchased by the Group to protect the excess of loss reinsurance portfolio written in London, Bermuda and Zurich against such losses.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the programme deductible for all territories and perils is US$125.0 million for a first loss with a lower deductible applicable for second and subsequent Florida windstorm losses.
Aggregate protection has been renewed to provide lower level cover in the event of multiple losses to the portfolio.
Excess of loss protection is also purchased to protect the motor treaty reinsurance account written in Zurich.
In July 2013, the Group acquired coverage for US and Canadian earthquake perils of up to US$75.0 million from a Bermudian special purpose insurer, Tramline Re II Ltd, which in turn placed a catastrophe bond into the capital markets.
This transaction provides the Group with fully collateralised protection over a four-year period from 1 July 2013 and is in addition to the protection the Group purchases through the traditional reinsurance marketplace.
The bond provides protection against a remote catastrophic event for the Group.
In December 2014, the Group acquired coverage for US hurricane, US earthquake and European windstorm perils of up to US$200.0 million from Tramline Re II Ltd, which in turn placed a second catastrophe bond into the capital markets.
This transaction replaces the coverage provided by Tramline Re Ltd which expired on 31 December 2014 and provides the Group with fully collateralised protection over a four-year period from 1 January 2015.
This is in addition to the protection the Group purchases through the traditional reinsurance marketplace.
The bond provides significant protection against remote but substantial catastrophe events for the Group.
There is no guarantee that reinsurance coverage will be available to meet all potential loss circumstances as, for very severe catastrophe losses, it is possible that the full extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
Any loss amount which exceeds the programme would be retained by the Group.
It is also possible that a dispute could arise with a reinsurer which reduces the recovery made.
The reinsurance programme is bought to cover the expected claims arising on the original portfolio.
However, it is possible for there to be a mismatch, or a gap in cover, which would result in a higher than expected retained loss.
Many parts of the programme also have limited reinstatements and therefore the number of claims which may be recovered from second or subsequent major losses is limited.
It is possible for the programme to be exhausted by a series of losses in one annual period and it may not be possible to purchase additional reinsurance at all or for an acceptable price.
This would result in the Group bearing higher losses from further events occurring.
It should also be noted that the renewal date of the reinsurance programmes does not necessarily correspond to that of the business written.
Where business is not protected by risk attaching reinsurance which provides coverage for the duration of all the policies written this reinsurance protection could expire resulting in an increase in possible loss retained by the Group if renewal of the programme is not achieved.
Realistic disaster scenario RDS analysis The Group has a defined event risk tolerance which determines the maximum net loss that the Group intends to limit its exposure with respect to major modelled catastrophe event scenarios.
Currently this is a maximum of 300.0 million 2013: 350.0 million for the Group.
The Group Underwriting Risk team are responsible for aggregating potential scenarios and at 1 January 2015, levels of exposure were below the potential maximum tolerance, one of the largest being the San Francisco Earthquake at 271.0 million for the Group.
At present the Group is not utilising the full extent of its risk tolerance.
These scenarios are extraordinary events with an occurrence probability of less than 1 in 100 years estimated for natural peril or elemental losses.
The Group also adopts risk tolerance maximum net limits for a number of other non-elemental scenarios, including aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
The risk tolerance policy recognises that there may be circumstances in which the net event limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances include changes in rates of exchange, non-renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance protection, reinsurance security failure, or regulatory and legal requirements which increase original claims levels.
Amlin plc 178 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is carried out every quarter and measured against risk tolerance.
The following assumptions and procedures are used in the process: The data used reflects the information supplied to the Group by insureds and ceding companies.
This may prove to be incomplete, inaccurate or could develop during the policy period: The exposures are modelled using a mixture of stochastic models and underwriter input to arrive at damage factors these factors are then applied to the assumed aggregate exposure to produce gross loss estimates.
The damage factors may prove to be inadequate: The reinsurance programme as purchased is applied a provision for reinsurer counterparty failure is included in the analysis but may prove to be inadequate: and Reinstatement premiums both payable and receivable are included.
There is no guarantee that the assumptions and techniques deployed in calculating these event loss estimate figures are accurate.
Furthermore, there could also be a loss which exceeds these figures.
The likelihood of such a catastrophe is considered to be remote, but the most severe scenarios modelled are simulated events and these simulations could prove to be unreliable.
i Claims reserving and IBNR Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets: Calculation of incurred but not reported IBNR and claims development The Group adopts a rigorous process in the calculation of an adequate provision for insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish reserves which are expected to be at least adequate and that there is consistency from year to year.
Therefore, the reserves are set at a level above the mean actuarial best estimate position.
However, there is a risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet insurance claim liabilities reported in future years on policy periods which have expired.
Process and methodology The reserving process commences with the proper recording and reporting of claims information which consists of paid and notified or outstanding claims.
For the London market business information is received through Xchanging plc the London market bureau and, in the case of Amlin UK service companies and Amlin Europe, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe, directly from brokers and policyholders.
Claims records are maintained for each policy and class.
For notified or outstanding claims, a case reserve is established based on the views of underwriting management and claims managers, using external legal or expert advice where appropriate.
This reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet the claim payment when it is finally determined.
For some classes of business, particularly liability business, settlement may be several years after the initial notification of the claim, as it may be subject to complexities or court action.
For claims received from Xchanging plc, the market reserve is generally set by the lead underwriter, but there are circumstances on larger claims where the Group will post higher reserves than those notified.
To assist with the process of determining the reserves, triangulation statistics for each class are produced which show the historical development of premium, as well as paid and incurred losses, for each underwriting year accident year for Amlin Europe.
In all cases, the different potential development of each class of business is fully recognised.
The development period varies by class, by method of acceptance and is also determined by the deductible of each policy written.
For casualty business, the policy form will determine whether claims can be made on a claims made as advised or on a losses occurring determined by date of loss basis.
This has a significant impact on the reporting period in which claims can be notified.
IBNR To establish a provision for IBNR claims, the local actuarial teams use their experience and knowledge of the classes of business to estimate the potential future development of the incurred claims for each class for every underwriting year accident year for Amlin Europe.
This is known as the best estimate.
In setting the IBNR provision, estimates are made for the ultimate premium and ultimate gross claims value for each underwriting year ultimate earned claims for each accident year for Amlin Europe.
Allowance is then made for anticipated reinsurance recoveries to reach a net claim position.
Reinsurance recoveries are calculated for outstanding and IBNR claims, sometimes through the use of historical recovery rates or statistical projections, and provisions are made as appropriate for bad debt or possible disputes.
The component of ultimate IBNR provision estimates and reinsurance recoveries that relates to future events occurring to the existing portfolio is removed in order to reflect generally accepted accounting practice.
Meetings are initially held in which underwriters and actuaries discuss the initial proposed estimates and revise them if it is felt necessary.
At the next round of meetings, local management discuss reserving issues with the actuaries and underwriters and challenge the proposed estimates.
At this meeting, local management propose the margin for risk to be added to the best estimate, assisted by diagnostics produced from the internal model.
The margin is proposed on a net of reinsurance basis only.
Further meetings are then held at which further review and challenge is provided by central teams, led by Amlin Risk.
Areas of uncertainty The reserves established can be more or less than adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
The level of uncertainty varies significantly from class to class but can arise from inadequate case reserves for known large losses and catastrophes or from inadequate provision for IBNR claims.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total net claims reserves would be 26.2 million gain loss 2013: 25.5 million.
Large loss case reserves are determined through careful analysis of the individual claim, often with the advice of lawyers.
Claims arising from events such as the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in the US are examples of cases where there continues to be some uncertainty over the eventual value of claims.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 179 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued i Claims reserving and IBNR continued Property catastrophe claims, such as earthquake or hurricane losses can take several months or years, to develop as adjusters visit damaged property and agree claim valuations.
Until all the claims are settled it requires an analysis of the area damaged, contracts exposed and the use of models to simulate the loss against the portfolio of exposure in order to arrive at an estimate of ultimate loss to the Group.
There is uncertainty over the adequacy of information and modelling of major losses for a period that can range from several months to a number of years after a catastrophe loss.
Account should also be taken of factors which may influence the size of claims such as increased repair cost inflation or a change in law.
The long tail liability classes represent the most difficult classes to project because often claims are notified and settled several years after the expiry of the policy concerned.
This is particularly the case for liability business written on a losses occurring basis.
The use of historical development data is fundamental to reserving these classes.
It is used in conjunction with the advice of lawyers and third party claims adjusters on material single claims.
Known changes to wordings or the claims environment are also considered.
The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance programme is an uncertain exercise as there is limited knowledge of the size or number of future claims advices.
The assumption over future reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect and unforeseen disputes could arise which would reduce recoveries made.
The estimated premium income in respect of facility contracts, for example, binding authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be written in full at the inception of the contract but actual premium may exceed or fail to meet initial estimates.
The magnitude of claims arising from such facilities may differ from estimates as a result of differences between estimated and actual premium.
j Internal capital modelling of risk To improve the Groups risk management capability, and assessment of capital requirements, the Group has developed a stochastic financial model.
This enables standalone modelling for each entity as well as a consolidated Group total position.
The output from the model includes a distribution of financial outcomes for all material risks.
The main output of the model gives a full distribution of potential profit or loss scenarios allowing the future profitability of the business to be managed on a risk adjusted basis.
The model requires the input of a large number of explicit parameters.
Those inputs are based on many different sources of information including detailed historical data on premium and claims, forecast income and exposures, estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss data from proprietary models applied to the Groups portfolio.
It enables projection of an estimated mean ultimate loss ratio and the distribution of results around it.
The model explicitly recognises diversification credit, since class results are not all strongly correlated and thus individual classes are unlikely to all produce losses or profits in the same year.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of predicting the key drivers of business performance, including in particular the level of claims, any individual simulation of the model viewed in isolation cannot be relied upon as an accurate forecast.
However, the output from many thousands of simulated results can provide a picture of the possible distribution of business results.
This output is useful in developing an understanding of the losses which may be borne by the business at varying levels of probability.
There are a large number of uncertainties and difficulties in achieving accurate results from the model.
Some of the key issues are: The model is based on a best estimate view of business volumes and rate expectations, which may not be borne out in practice: A significant change in the portfolio of business could result in the past not being a reliable guide to the future: Forecasting changes to external environmental factors may be incorrectly assessed: Model risk may be significant in such a complex and developing discipline: Key assumptions over levels of correlation between classes may over time prove to be incorrect: and Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate the severity and frequency of large catastrophes on the portfolio, may turn out to overstate or understate the risk.
Amlin plc 180 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 The results reproduced in the table below represents the modelled capital amounts required to be able to absorb an extreme loss at the 1 in 200 year level i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
This probability is the calculation benchmark required under Solvency II.
However, it does not represent the level of capital required for the Group to support current and expected business levels.
Furthermore, the Group is required to carry higher levels of capital which are considered sufficient by the rating agencies and clients.
2015 2014 Forecast unaudited m m Underwriting risk 340 408 Reserving risk 264 250 Credit reinsurance counterparty risk 35 27 Investment market risk 35 28 Liquidity risk 1 4 Operational risk 48 52 Currency risk 62 46 Diversified result 785 815 Note: 1.
All figures are based on business plan forecasts which are subject to regular review to take account of changes in the trading environment, interest rate outlook and movements in rates of exchange.
These figures are derived from the Group internal capital model and are based on data as at 31 December 2014.
Capital has been allocated to risk categories using the Percentile Layer Capital Allocation approach.
It should be recognised that allocating capital has a number of limitations and different allocations can be obtained by using alternative allocation approaches.
Investment market risk includes explicit modelling of currency risk.
Non-sterling amounts in the internal capital model have been converted using business planning rates of exchange as at 31 December 2014 US$1.66: CAN$1.83: 1.21 31 December 2013: US$1.66: CAN$1.76: 1.20.
Figures include an allowance for investment returns generated on assets backing the insurance liabilities i. e. discounting.
Investment income includes Group corporate surplus assets.
No credit has been taken for carried reserve margins.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 181 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 14.
Property and equipment Fixtures, Leasehold fittings and Freehold land land and Motor Computer leasehold and buildings buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 8.7 2.2 0.8 43.6 16.8 72.1 Additions 13.70.41.6 3.319.0 Disposals 0.4 2.9 3.3 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2014 22.4 2.2 0.8 42.3 19.9 87.6 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2014 0.5 0.1 37.6 11.3 49.5 Charge for the year 7 g 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.9 2.1 5.4 Disposals 0.3 2.9 3.2 At 31 December 2014 0.6 0.1 37.6 13.4 51.7 Net book value At 31 December 2014 21.8 2.1 0.8 4.7 6.5 35.9 At 1 January 2014 8.2 2.2 0.7 6.0 5.5 22.6 Fixtures, Leasehold fittings and Freehold land land and Motor Computer leasehold and buildings buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 7.2 0.1 40.8 14.9 63.0 Additions 1.52.20.32.6 0.77.3 Acquisition through business combination 0.6 0.4 1.4 2.4 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2013 8.7 2.2 0.8 43.6 16.8 72.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.4 33.1 9.1 42.6 Charge for the year 7 g 0.1 0.2 4.8 2.3 7.4 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2013 0.5 0.1 37.6 11.3 49.5 Net book value At 31 December 2013 8.2 2.2 0.7 6.0 5.5 22.6 At 1 January 2013 6.8 0.1 7.7 5.8 20.4 Amlin plc 182 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2014 89.5 63.2 71.7 46.7 3.2 274.3 Additions 9.9 9.9 Acquisition through business combination 3 a 20.4 15.1 35.5 Adjustment to prior acquisition 0.1 0.2 0.1 Foreign exchange losses 3.4 3.2 1.0 7.6 At 31 December 2014 106.5 63.2 83.6 55.7 3.0 312.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2014 0.4 24.2 7.9 2.7 35.2 Charge for the year 7 g 4.3 6.3 0.2 10.8 Foreign exchange gains 1.2 0.2 1.4 At 31 December 2014 0.4 27.3 14.0 2.9 44.6 Net book value At 31 December 2014 106.1 63.2 56.3 41.7 0.1 267.4 At 1 January 2014 89.1 63.2 47.5 38.8 0.5 239.1 Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 75.5 63.2 49.4 44.2 2.9 235.2 Additions 2.2 0.32.5 Acquisition through business combination 13.5 22.4 35.9 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.7 At 31 December 2013 89.5 63.2 71.7 46.7 3.2 274.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 0.4 18.6 2.6 2.2 23.8 Charge for the year 7 g 5.4 5.3 0.5 11.2 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2013 0.4 24.2 7.9 2.7 35.2 Net book value At 31 December 2013 89.1 63.2 47.5 38.8 0.5 239.1 At 1 January 2013 75.1 63.2 30.8 41.6 0.7 211.4 The amortisation charge for the year is included within Other administrative expenses in note 7 b.
Syndicate participations represent the ongoing rights to trade on Syndicate 2001 within the Lloyds insurance market.
Goodwill and the intangible asset in relation to syndicate participations are considered to have an indefinite life.
As such, they are tested for impairment annually.
All other intangible assets are tested for impairment only if an indication exists that the asset may be impaired at the reporting date.
Broker and customer relationship intangibles include those acquired in relation to AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited, Amlin Europe N. V. RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. and Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP: the net book value being 8.0 million 2013: 9.0 million, 15.4 million 2013: 18.2 million, 17.6 million 2013: 20.3 million and 15.3 million 2013: nil respectively.
These intangibles are being amortised over a period of 13, 15, 15 and 12 years respectively, and their remaining amortisation life is nine, 10, 13 and 12 years respectively.
Included within the net book value of 15.3 million broker and customer relationship intangibles for Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP is the net book value of 3.8 million relating to the non-controlling interests share.
Computer software represents the costs that the Group has incurred on internally developed software and predominantly relates to current development of Group finance systems and to a new underwriting platform for Amlin Europe N. V. developed in 2012.
The amortisation of the Group finance systems will commence at the point of completion.
Costs relating to Amlin Europe N. V. are being amortised over 10 years, with eight years remaining.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 183 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued For the purpose of impairment testing, intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs, identified according to the way in which management operates and monitors the business.
The intangible asset relating to the syndicate participations supports the underwriting in Amlin London and Amlin UK.
The analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets by CGU is shown below: 2014 2013 Leadenhall Amlin Amlin Amlin Capital Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Partners Total London UK Europe Total m m m m m m m m m Goodwill 18.8 4.8 61.5 21.0 106.1 18.8 4.8 65.5 89.1 Syndicate participations 57.1 6.1 63.2 55.2 8.0 63.2 75.9 10.9 61.5 21.0 169.3 74.0 12.8 65.5 152.3 The Amlin London goodwill balance comprises the goodwill from three CGUs.
The largest individual balance is the goodwill from the acquisition of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited totalling 11.5 million 2013: 11.5 million.
The Amlin Europe goodwill balance comprises the goodwill from one CGU, following the acquisition of Amlin France Holdings SAS by Amlin Europe N. V. its formation as a branch and further integration of operations.
The largest individual balance is the goodwill from the acquisition of Amlin Europe N. V. totalling 27.0 million 2013: 28.5 million.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management and discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Cash flow projections are based on the budgeted profit before tax for each CGU contained within the most recent business plans approved by management, adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation.
As such, these forecasts reflect the best estimate of future cash flows based on historical trends and expected growth rates.
The period covered by the projections is five years.
The most significant assumptions used to derive the operating profit include an assessment of the market cycle, retention rates, claims inflation, outwards reinsurance expenditure and long-term investment return: In order to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period, a long-term average growth rate of 2.5% 2013: 2.5% has been assumed for all CGUs, based on historical growth rates and managements estimates of future growth: and A risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2013: 8.5%, has been applied to each CGUs cash flow projection, which reflects a combination of factors including the Groups expected cost of equity, expected cost of borrowing, and different risk factors attaching to each CGU.
In each case, the results of this exercise indicate that the recoverable amount exceeds the intangible assets carrying value and would not be sensitive to reasonable possible changes in assumptions.
Amlin plc 184 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 16.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of pension arrangements, including defined contribution schemes, defined benefit schemes and personal pension schemes.
a Defined benefit schemes The Group participates in four funded defined benefit schemes, the Lloyds Superannuation Fund located in the United Kingdom, Amlin Europe schemes located in the Netherlands and Belgium and the Amlin Re Europe scheme in Switzerland.
Scheme descriptions Lloyds Superannuation Fund United Kingdom The scheme is operated as part of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund.
The Fund is administered by an entity which is legally separate from the Group.
The board of the pension fund, the board of trustees, is made up by a majority of independent directors, an Amlin employers director and an Amlin members director.
The trustees are required by legislation and by its articles of association to act in the interests of the pension scheme and the plan participants.
The trustees are responsible for the investment strategy of the Fund, in accordance with the Statement of Investment Principles.
The trustees are also responsible for the appointment of custodians and actuaries for the Fund, in addition to consulting with the employers of the Fund.
Historically the Fund has catered for a number of employers in the Lloyds market.
As a consequence of market consolidation, employers closing final salary schemes and some companies failing, during 2013 Amlin became the only active employer in the Fund.
Prior to Amlin becoming the sole participating employer, the trustees operated separate notional accounts for the scheme of each contributing employer and also a section relating to former employees of the employers no longer contributing to the fund known as the orphans section.
Since becoming the sole participating employer, the trustees has stopped notionally segregating the assets and therefore the Company continues to be ultimately responsible for the assets and liabilities of the Fund, including 100% of the orphan liabilities 2013: 100%.
Following the exit of the remaining other employer during 2013, the trustees entered into a contract with an insurance company to secure the liabilities relating to the employer exiting the Fund and to some of the liabilities of the orphans section.
During 2014, the trustees subsequently decided that they would not be securing seven members of the exiting employer outside the Fund under this insurance contract.
Instead the trustees opted to retain them in the Fund as orphan section members and maintain their cover with the insurance contract.
This has resulted in an increase in the defined benefit obligation by 5.8 million and a corresponding and equal increase in the assets of the Fund as at 31 December 2014.
Amlin Europe schemes Netherlands and Belgium Amlin Europe N. V. operates two defined benefit pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.
These plans are governed by the Amlin Europe board in accordance with Dutch and Belgian legislation.
Under these schemes, benefits are based on years of service and level of salary.
Benefits also include other post-employment benefits which continue to be granted to employees after retirement.
These plans are insured and are funded partly by means of employee contributions.
Amlin Re Europe scheme Switzerland Amlin Re Europe operates a pension scheme which meets the classification of a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19.
In accordance with Swiss legislation, Amlin Re Europe provides for occupational pension insurance, the regulations of which, as may be amended from time to time, apply to both Amlin Re Europe and the employee.
The pension schemes management board equally consisting of employer as well as employee representatives retains overall responsibility for deciding on such fundamental aspects as the level and structure of plan benefits.
The insured salary is based on the agreed compensation exclusive of bonus and or other benefits granted by Amlin Re Europe.
The employees pay a portion of the premium determined in the applicable pension fund regulations.
Net defined benefit liability Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 572.3 470.3 Fair value of scheme assets 535.1 468.1 Deficit in schemes 37.2 2.2 Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling 4.2 30.4 Net defined benefit liability 41.4 32.6 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 185 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 16.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows: Present Fair value Net defined value of of scheme Deficit in Effect of asset benefit obligation assets schemes ceiling liability m m m m m At 1 January 2014 470.3 468.1 2.2 30.4 32.6 Interest expense income 19.3 19.6 0.3 1.3 1.0 Current service cost 5.1 5.1 5.1 Past service cost 0.9 0.9 0.9 Administration expenses 0.4 1.6 1.2 1.2 Charged credited to consolidated statement of profit or loss 23.1 18.0 5.1 1.3 6.4 Re-measurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 8.6 8.6 8.6 changes in financial assumptions 66.5 11.5 55.0 55.0 changes in experience 26.4 5.8 20.6 20.6 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 46.9 46.9 46.9 Changes in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 27.5 27.5 Charged credited to consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 101.5 64.2 37.3 27.5 9.8 Exchange differences 5.8 4.1 1.7 1.7 Participant contributions 1.1 1.1 Benefits paid 17.9 17.9 Employer contributions 5.7 5.7 5.7 At 31 December 2014 572.3 535.1 37.2 4.2 41.4 A plan amendment has resulted in a reduction in past service costs of 0.8 million 2013: 1.6 million due to the increase in the retirement age in the Netherlands effective from 1 January 2014.
Present Fair value Net defined value of of scheme Deficit in Effect of asset benefit obligation assets Schemes ceiling liability m m m m m At 1 January 2013 454.4 436.6 17.8 23.1 40.9 Interest expense income 18.4 18.2 0.2 1.0 1.2 Current service cost 6.0 6.0 6.0 Past service cost 1.6 1.6 1.6 Administration expenses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Charged credited to consolidated statement of profit or loss 22.8 16.6 6.2 1.0 7.2 Re-measurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 0.9 0.9 0.9 changes in financial assumptions 4.6 2.4 7.0 7.0 other actuarial gains 2.9 19.0 16.1 16.1 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 5.7 5.7 5.7 Changes in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 6.3 6.3 Charged credited to consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 6.6 22.3 15.7 6.3 9.4 Exchange differences 2.2 1.2 1.0 1.0 Participant contributions 1.2 1.2 Benefits paid 16.9 16.9 Employer contributions 7.1 7.1 7.1 At 31 December 2013 470.3 468.1 2.2 30.4 32.6 Other actuarial gains relate to the impact of the exit of the remaining other employer from Lloyds Superannuation Fund in the UK.
Amlin plc 186 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Funding arrangements Lloyds Superannuation Fund Contributions are paid to provide for the cost of benefit accrual.
The rate of contribution agreed with the trustees is 16% 2013: 16% paid by the employer plus 5% 2013: 5% member contributions, in each case of pensionable earnings, and additional contributions as agreed with the trustees.
Contributions totalled 2.6 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 2.8 million.
The funding position of the Fund is assessed every three years by an independent qualified actuary.
Contributions are made at the funding rates recommended by the actuary and typically include adjustments to amortise any funding surplus or shortfall over a period.
Amounts paid under the scheme are charged to Syndicate 2001 or other Group companies.
The last completed formal valuation of the Fund was as at 31 March 2013 and was completed in June 2014 by Mr D Wilding, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, and used the projected unit credit actuarial method.
On 20 June 2014, the Group agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustee, to run over 10 years.
The schedule requires four separate payments of 2.0 million to the Fund, followed by six separate payments of 1.2 million to the Fund.
The present value of the future payments attributable to past service has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2014, to the extent that the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund through a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The Group has also entered into an agreement with the trustees to hold certain funds within an escrow account.
The Group has made payments totalling 14.0 million to the escrow account, with the most recent made in May 2013, and it is now fully funded.
Following the 2013 triennial actuarial valuation, the escrow account is being held as security against certain of the assumptions used in the valuation.
Further details are provided in note 12 j.
Other schemes Funding for the other schemes in operation is in accordance with related insurance arrangements and regulations described above.
Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling The Lloyds Superannuation Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
Therefore, the present value of the future payments has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2014, to the extent that the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund.
A restriction to the defined benefit asset has therefore been recognised.
Risks to which the Group is exposed through its defined benefit schemes The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to the following risks: Changes in bond yields The discount rate used in calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation is based upon the yield of highquality debt instruments issued by blue-chip companies, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
A decrease in bond yields is likely to increase the defined benefit obligation.
Asset volatility There is a risk that the return on the plan assets underperforms the yield on corporate bonds, thereby reducing the surplus or increasing the deficit.
Inflation risk The defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation and therefore should the inflation rate increase, there will be an increase in the plan obligation.
Life expectancy The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated based on certain mortality assumptions as stated below.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will result in an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
Risk of insurer default Where the schemes have entered into an insurance arrangement, if the insurer is unable to meet its obligations, or if the contract is cancelled by either party, it will fall to the Group to provide the benefits to members in accordance with the relevant scheme assets.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 187 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 16.
Retirement benefit obligations continued a Defined benefit schemes continued Significant actuarial assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 2014 were: The UK Netherlands Belgium Switzerland % pa % pa % pa % pa Discount rate for pension benefits 3.6 2.1 1.4 1.0 Price inflation CPI RPI for UK 2.1 3.1 2.0 1.9 1.3 Expected salary increases general 1.5-2.0 1.9 2.3 Indexation for active and formerly active employees 1.0-1.5 For the Lloyds Superannuation Fund, there are no expected salary increases 2013: nil because the plan participants salaries have been capped at the date of buy out.
They continue to accrue additional years service but do not benefit from salary increases.
The significant actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 2013 were: The UK Netherlands Belgium Switzerland % pa % pa % pa % pa Discount rate for pension benefits 4.4 3.7 2.5 2.3 Price inflation CPI RPI for UK 2.5 3.5 2.0 2.0 1.5 Expected salary increases general 2.0 2.0 2.5 Indexation for active and formerly active employees 2.0 The mortality assumptions used in the 31 December 2014 valuation included the following life expectancies: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Aged 60 28.2 30.0 26.8 28.0 26.7 30.9 26.4 29.0 Aged 45 29.7 31.6 27.9 28.8 26.7 30.9 27.7 30.3 The mortality assumptions used in the 31 December 2013 valuation included the following life expectancies: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Aged 60 28.0 29.4 26.8 28.0 26.7 30.9 26.3 28.9 Aged 45 30.0 31.0 27.9 28.8 26.7 30.9 27.7 30.3 Significant actuarial assumptions sensitivities The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: 2014 2013 Assumption change m m Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 22.9 25.5 18.2 20.5 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 9.7 12.1 10.9 11.3 Decrease increase in salary rate by 0.5% 1.3 1.5 0.5 0.6 Decrease increase in indexation rate by 0.5% 9.4 11.5 6.6 7.6 Decrease increase in life expectancy by one year 19.0 19.0 13.6 13.5 The above sensitivities of the significant actuarial assumptions have been calculated by changing each assumption in turn whilst all remaining assumptions are held constant.
The limitation of this sensitivity analysis is that in practice assumptions may be correlated and therefore are unlikely to change in isolation.
Amlin plc 188 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Analysis of scheme assets The analysis of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Quoted Unquoted Total Total Quoted Unquoted Total Total m m m % m m m % Cash and cash equivalents 13.7 13.7 2.6 15.8 15.8 3.4 Equity instruments United Kingdom 77.0 77.0 14.5 72.8 72.8 15.6 Europe 12.0 12.0 2.2 12.2 12.2 2.6 North America 30.6 30.6 5.7 27.0 27.0 5.8 Asia 6.6 6.6 1.2 5.5 5.5 1.2 Rest of World 6.6 6.6 1.2 8.1 8.1 1.7 Bonds Government 167.6 167.6 31.3 97.8 97.8 20.9 Corporate 111.8 111.8 20.9 136.7 136.7 29.1 Property United Kingdom 32.1 32.1 6.0 28.1 28.1 6.0 Total directly managed scheme assets United Kingdom 444.3 13.7 458.0 85.6 388.2 15.8 404.0 86.3 The Netherlands 64.2 12.0 51.7 11.1 Belgium 3.6 0.7 3.4 0.7 Switzerland 9.3 1.7 9.0 1.9 Insured scheme assets 77.1 14.4 64.1 13.7 Total scheme assets 535.1 100.0 468.1 100.0 The analysis of the scheme assets by asset class are not provided for the Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe defined benefit schemes as the investment decisions are at the discretion of the third parties to whom Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe have ceded investment risk under the insurance policies taken out to meet their obligations.
These scheme assets are shown as insured scheme assets in the table above.
Asset-liability matching strategies In accordance with the governance arrangements set out above, investment strategies are in place to maintain long-term investments which are aligned to the obligations under the defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of the investments match the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
In addition, for the scheme in the UK, a proportion of the Funds assets are invested in a liability driven investment portfolio.
The objective of this portfolio is to match these assets to a proportion of the Funds liabilities.
The Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from prior period.
Maturity profile of the defined benefit obligations The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation years is as follows: 2014 2013 UK 17 17 The Netherlands 26 22 Belgium 13 12 Switzerland 18 19 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 189 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 16.
Retirement benefit obligations continued a Defined benefit schemes continued The expected maturity analysis of the undiscounted pension benefits is as follows: The UK Netherlands Belgium Switzerland m m m m Less than a year 16.1 1.3 0.3 0.5 Between 1-2 years 16.5 1.4 0.3 0.6 Between 2-5 years 51.5 4.8 1.5 1.7 Over 5 years 905.9 213.9 14.3 34.0 Total as at 31 December 2014 990.0 221.4 16.4 36.8 The UK Netherlands Belgium Switzerland m m m m Less than a year 16.0 1.4 0.2 0.5 Between 1-2 years 16.4 1.5 0.3 0.5 Between 2-5 years 51.6 4.9 1.3 1.8 Over 5 years 1,016.0 313.2 15.7 35.8 Total as at 31 December 2013 1,100.0 321.0 17.5 38.6 Expected contributions The effect of the defined benefit plans on the Groups future cash flows as a result of the expected contributions for the year ending 31 December 2015 is as follows: The UK Netherlands Belgium Switzerland m m m m Contributions from the Group 2.5 1.2 0.4 0.7 Contributions from plan participants 0.1 0.6 0.3 Total contributions to the schemes 2.6 1.8 0.4 1.0 b The stakeholder defined contribution schemes The defined contribution schemes operated by the Group are stakeholder arrangements.
The total contributions to the schemes for the year ended 31 December 2014 are 8.3 million 2013: 7.8 million.
c Other arrangements In addition to the defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes, the Group has an occupational money purchase scheme which provides death in service protection for all employees.
Regular contributions, expressed as a percentage of employees earnings, are paid into this scheme and are allocated to accounts in the names of the individual members, which are independent of the Groups finances.
There were no outstanding contributions at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Amlin plc 190 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 17.
Capital & reserves a Share capital 2014 2014 2013 2013 Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 504,799,359 142.0 502,076,006 141.2 Ordinary shares of 28.125 pence each issued in the year 66,541 2,723,353 0.8 At 31 December issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 504,865,900 142.0 504,799,359 142.0 The Company transferred 756,372 shares out of treasury during the year at a cost of 1.9 million 2013: 716,586 shares at a cost of 1.8 million.
The shares have been transferred to meet exercises of employee share options, leaving 3,495,713 shares in treasury at 31 December 2014 2013: 4,252,085 shares.
This number does not include shares held by the trustee of the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust as disclosed in note 7 d. The Group issued 66,541 ordinary shares on 7 November 2014 in conjunction with the acquisition of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, as per note 3 a.
The shares issued have the same rights as all other shares in issue.
The fair value of the shares issued is 0.3 million 434.115 pence per share.
b Other reserves All items of other comprehensive income in 2014 and 2013 are charged to Other reserves.
Other reserves are as follows: 2014 2013 Note m m Capital redemption reserve 123.1 123.1 Defined benefit pension reserve 49.9 40.1 Foreign operations translation reserve 8.1 9.6 Employee share option reserve 11.3 9.3 Hedge accounting reserve 41.1 43.0 Merger reserve 87.7 87.7 Pre-1999 goodwill write-off 45.7 45.7 Other 1.0 1.2 Tax relating to components of other reserves 8 30.8 29.5 109.1 112.4 c Net assets per share Net assets and tangible net assets per share are as follows: 2014 2013 Note m m Net assets 1,785.9 1,678.6 Non-controlling interests 3.1 0.5 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,782.8 1,678.1 Adjustments for goodwill and intangible assets excluding non-controlling interests share 15 263.6 239.1 Tangible net assets excluding non-controlling interests for 2014 1,519.2 1,439.5 Number of shares in issue at end of the year millions 504.9 504.8 Adjustment for ESOT and treasury shares millions 5.3 6.2 Basic number of shares after ESOT and treasury shares adjustment millions 499.6 498.6 Basic net assets per share 356.8p 336.7p Basic tangible net assets per share 304.1p 288.7p Note: The calculation of tangible net assets was amended in 2014 to incorporate an adjustment for Non-controlling interests included in the Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 191 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 18.
Subsidiaries and associates a Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2014 which are consolidated in these financial statements are detailed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the Group owns 100% of ordinary share capital and voting rights in these entities: Subsidiaries Principal activity Registered in Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin AG Reinsurance company Switzerland Amlin Bermuda Holdings Limited Finance company Bermuda Amlin Corporate Member Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Amlin Corporate Services Limited Group service, employing and intermediate holding company England and Wales 1 Amlin Europe N. V. Insurance company The Netherlands Amlin Insurance UK Public Limited Company Insurance company England and Wales Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales 2 Amlin Plus Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Lloyds service company Singapore Amlin Underwriting Limited Lloyds managing agency England and Wales Amlin Underwriting Services Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited Regulated broker England and Wales JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales 3 Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Investment adviser and fund manager England and Wales RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. Broker The Netherlands Note: 1.
Pursuant to a merger agreement dated 27 March 2014, all the assets and liabilities of Amlin France Holdings SAS were transferred to Amlin France SAS.
Following this merger, Amlin France SAS was wound up without liquidation, effective 4 December 2014 and all its business operations and employees transferred into Amlin Europe NV where it now operates as the French branch of Amlin Europe N. V. 2.
The non-controlling interest in Amlin Plus Limited 40% was acquired by the Group on 20 May 2014.
Amlin Group has a 75% share in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, effective from 23 October 2014, see note 3 a for more details.
Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or net assets of the Group.
b Investments in associates The Group owns interests in two associates: Miles Smith Holdings Limited and Manchester Underwriting Management Limited.
The aggregate amount of the Groups share of profit after tax from investments in associates during the year is as follows: 2014 2013 m m 1 Share of profit after tax of associates 3.7 3.9 Total comprehensive income 3.7 3.9 2 Investment in associates 7.0 12.5 Total assets 7.0 12.5 Notes: 1.
Includes the Groups share of profit from its investment in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP of 3.4 million 2013: 3.6 million prior to the Group acquiring a controlling interest.
Includes the Groups equity accounted investment in Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP of nil 2013: 5.7 million prior to the Group acquiring a controlling interest.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had an aggregate balance receivable from associates, excluding loans as detailed below, of 4.2 million 2013: 6.4 million.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of outstanding balances and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from associates.
The Groups loan to Miles Smith Holdings Limited of 0.2 million was settled during the year 2013: 0.2 million.
Convertible loan stock of 0.7 million 2013: 0.7 million has been issued by the associate to the Group.
The conversion date is 31 December 2015.
Interest on the convertible loan stock is accrued at 5.0% over five-year gilts.
The Group has a loan to Manchester Underwriting Management Limited of 2.2 million 2013: 2.7 million.
The loan is repayable in full on dates between 1 January 2015 and 21 November 2018.
Interest is charged at rates between 5.0% and 5.5% above the Bank of England base rate.
Amlin plc 192 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 c Interests in unconsolidated structured entities As per note 12 b, the Group holds financial investments in certain pooled vehicles which are typically sub-funds of umbrella structures.
These subfunds meet the definition of structured entities under IFRS 10 as voting and similar rights are not the dominant factor in determining who controls the entity.
Decision making at the sub-fund level is typically restricted to administrative tasks only, and instead it is the voting rights at the umbrella level which determines the control of the sub-funds.
The investments which meet the definition of structured entities are the Groups investments in pooled vehicles liquidity funds and pooled vehicles bonds and LIBOR plus funds, as listed in note 12 g. The funds under management with each of the fund managers in these pooled vehicles are also included within the same note.
These amounts are recorded within financial assets on the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The maximum exposure to loss from the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities is 100% of the funds invested in those entities, should the fair value of the assets held deteriorate to nil.
The Group has provided no financial or other support to any unconsolidated structured entities in the period outside of transactions in the ordinary course of investment management, and has no current intentions to do so.
d Subsidiaries exempt from statutory audit The subsidiaries at 31 December 2014 which are consolidated in these financial statements but are exempt from statutory audit are detailed below.
The Group owns 100% of ordinary share capital and voting rights in these entities: Subsidiaries Principal activity Status Registered in Active Amlin Netherlands Holdings BV Intermediate holding company The Netherlands Active Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc.
Reinsurance company United States of America Dormant Haven Knox-Johnston Limited Lloyds service company England and Wales Dormant Just Law Limited Service company England and Wales St Margarets Insurance Services Limited Intermediate holding company Dormant England and Wales Dormant Summit Insurance Group Insurance company England and Wales 19.
Contingent liabilities Aside from the escrow account entered into with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined benefit pension scheme, as described in note 16 a, and the contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, as described in note 3 a, the Group has no material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Commitments a Capital commitments The Group has agreed to redeem the US$50.0 million subordinated debt in March 2015 as described in note 12 e. In addition to the commitments made to RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. below and to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP as described in note 3 a, the Group has a contractual commitment for the construction of a new office building Victoria Road, Chelmsford at 31 December 2014 of 3.6 million 2013: 13.5 million.
The Group has also made commitments to subscribe to property funds at 31 December 2014 of 68.6 million 2013: 41.5 million in the normal course of investment activities.
b Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices under operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give notice for the termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the consolidated statement of profit or loss during the year is 9.9 million 2013: 9.6 million, as disclosed in note 7 g. The future aggregate minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable portion of the Groups operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 m m No later than 1 year 9.0 9.5 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 23.6 26.6 Later than 5 years 59.0 103.4 91.6 139.5 The basis for calculating the lease commitments relating to The Leadenhall Building has been amended in 2014 to reflect the expected cash flows up until the first break clause.
c Other commitments RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. RMI, which was acquired by Amlin in 2013, remains a guarantor for the liabilities of certain formerly related companies under a credit facility issued by the F. van Lanschot Bank.
Amlin has demanded that the seller procure the release of RMI from this obligation as required under the terms of the RMI Share Purchase Agreement and this remains ongoing.
RMIs potential financial exposure under this crossguarantee agreement can vary but should not exceed 3.3 million 2013: 6.0 million.
Amlin has withheld US$7.5 million due to the sellers pending resolution of this issue.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 193 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 21.
Related party transactions a Transactions and balances with related parties i Amlin Plus As per note 3 b, the non-controlling interest in Amlin Plus Limited, held previously by Lycetts Holdings Limited, was acquired by Amlin Underwriting Limited on 20 May 2014.
As a result Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited, a subsidiary of Lycetts Holdings Limited and a producer of premium income for Amlin Plus Limited, is no longer a related party of the Group.
However, Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited continue to provide premium income for Amlin Plus Limited following the acquisition.
During the period until acquisition Amlin Plus wrote 3.2 million 2013: 11.5 million of premium under the binding authority agreement, of which 0.8 million 2013: 3.7 million was produced by Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited earning brokerage commission of 0.1 million 2013: 0.5 million on this business.
ii Associates The Group enters into transactions with its associates in the normal course of business.
The sales to, and purchases from, associates are made at normal market prices.
Details of the Groups associates are given in note 18 b. iii Syndicate 6106 For the 2013 underwriting year of account Special Purpose Syndicate S6106, managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited, wrote a 10.0% quota share contract of the excess of loss reinsurance account of Syndicate 2001.
The transactions provide external members capital to support 2013 underwriting, enabling Syndicate 2001 to take advantage of opportunities in peak zones in the US, Japan and Europe.
All transactions with S6106 are undertaken on an arms length basis.
This quota share contract was not renewed for the 2014 underwriting year of account.
iv Funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP, a partnership controlled by the Group, is an investment fund manager wholly focused on managing insurance linked investment portfolios for institutional investors.
As per note 3 a, the total funds under management at 31 December 2014 were US$1,880.8 million 1,206.3 million equivalent 2013: US$1,591.8 million: 961.0 million equivalent.
For the period since control in the partnership was established to 31 December 2014, LCP earned 2.4 million in management and performance fees.
At 31 December 2014, LCP had net receivables due of 7.6 million from the funds it manages in outstanding management and performance fees.
v Transactions by the Funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP At 31 December 2014, funds managed by LCP held US$5.5 million and US$1.0 million in the catastrophe bonds issued by Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd respectively.
Details of the Groups transaction with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd can be found in note 13 h. Syndicate 2001 and Amlin AG through its branches in Zurich and Bermuda participate in fronting arrangements whereby they write inwards reinsurance contracts which are 100% reinsured by Horseshoe Re Limited on behalf of its segregated accounts.
Funds managed by LCP have invested within these segregated accounts.
During the year Syndicate 2001 and Amlin AG wrote 25.1 million 2013: 15.1 million of gross premium and received 1.7 million 2013: 0.6 million of commission through this arrangement.
At 31 December 2014, 10.2 million 2013: 5.5 million was net receivable from Horseshoe Re, of which 4.8 million 2013: 0.2 million was reinsurance receivables on paid and outstanding claims, 13.0 million 2013: 6.0 million was reinsurers share of insurance liabilities and 7.6 million 2013: 0.7 million was reinsurance payables.
vi Transactions with the Funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP At 31 December 2014, Amlin AG through its branch in Bermuda holds investments of 63.7 million 2013: 62.2 million in funds managed by LCP.
The return on this investment is included in note 6. b Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those Amlin plc Board Directors and Amlin Management Committee members responsible for planning and control of the activities of the Group.
Key management comprises 13 Executive Directors and employees and six Non-Executive Directors 2013: 12 and seven respectively.
Compensation during the year to key management personnel is analysed below: 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 9.4 8.9 Long-term employee benefits 2.7 4.1 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.7 1.5 Cash-settled share-based payments 1.0 0.4 15.3 15.4 c Transactions with companies with common directors Certain Directors of the Company are also directors of other companies, as described in the Directors biographical details on page 70 of the Annual Report.
Such other companies and or their subsidiaries may, and in some cases do, conduct business with companies in the Amlin Group, including Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited of which Mrs Chakraverty is a non-executive director.
In all cases transactions between the Amlin Group and such other companies are carried out on normal arms length commercial terms.
Amlin plc 194 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 22.
Events after the reporting period No significant events have been identified between the date of the consolidated statement of financial position and the date on which the financial statements were authorised other than stated below: Catastrophe bond Tramline Re II Ltd During the period, the Group acquired coverage for US earthquake and storm and european windstorm perils of up to US$200.0 million from a Bermudian special purpose insurer, Tramline Re II Ltd, which in turn has placed a catastrophe bond into the markets.
This transaction provides the Group with fully collateralised protection over a four-year period with effect from 1 January 2015.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 195 Independent auditors report To the members of Amlin plc Report on the Parent Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Amlin plcs Parent Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited Amlin plcs financial statements comprise: the Parent Company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2014: the Parent Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Amlin plc 196 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
James Bichard Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2015 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 197 Parent Company statement of financial position At 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 a 15.0 14.1 Financial assets 27 b 29.8 21.6 Loans and receivables 28 11.0 2.9 Amounts due from subsidiaries 28 367.9 446.1 Current income tax assets 10.0 7.3 Deferred tax assets 7.1 3.2 Investments in subsidiaries 30 1,372.5 1,265.6 Property and equipment 29 6.8 3.6 Total assets 1,820.1 1,764.4 Equity Share capital 17 a 142.0 142.0 Share premium 311.7 311.3 Other reserves 134.8 132.7 Treasury shares 16.1 18.8 Retained earnings 703.0 634.0 Total equity and reserves 1,275.4 1,201.2 Liabilities Other payables 31 9.8 12.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries 31 263.7 159.9 Financial liabilities 27 b 9.7 0.3 Borrowings 27 c 261.5 390.9 Total liabilities 544.7 563.2 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 1,820.1 1,764.4 The attached notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 198 to 200 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2015.
They were signed on its behalf by: Charles Philipps Richard Hextall Chief Executive Chief Finance & Operations Officer Amlin plc 198 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Parent Company statement of changes in equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 Share Share Other Treasury Retained Total equity capital premium reserves shares earnings and reserves For the year ended 31 December 2014 Note m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 142.0 311.3 132.7 18.8 634.0 1,201.2 Profit and total other comprehensive income for the year 200.6 200.6 Employee share option schemes: share-based payment reserve 3.4 0.7 4.1 proceeds from shares issued 0.1 2.0 0.4 1.7 Net purchase of employee share ownership trust 1.3 1.3 Dividends paid 26 131.2 131.2 Issue of new shares 0.3 0.3 Transactions with the owners of the Company for the year 0.4 2.1 2.7 131.6 126.4 At 31 December 2014 142.0 311.7 134.8 16.1 703.0 1,275.4 Share Share Other Treasury Retained Total equity capital premium reserves shares earnings and reserves For the year ended 31 December 2013 Note m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2013 141.2 300.4 132.8 20.8 488.4 1,042.0 Profit and total other comprehensive income for the year 267.8 267.8 Employee share option schemes: share-based payment reserve 1.5 1.5 proceeds from shares issued 0.1 2.0 0.9 1.2 Net purchase of employee share ownership trust 1.6 1.6 Dividends paid 26 121.3 121.3 Issue of new shares 0.8 10.8 11.6 Transactions with the owners of the Company for the year 0.8 10.9 0.1 2.0 122.2 108.6 At 31 December 2013 142.0 311.3 132.7 18.8 634.0 1,201.2 The attached notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 199 Parent Company statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2014 2014 2013 Note m m Profit before tax 192.1 262.6 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 0.1 Finance costs 22.0 23.1 Dividend income 277.2 291.9 Losses gains on investments realised and unrealised 11.3 10.5 Foreign exchange losses gains on revaluation 0.5 0.5 Other non-cash movements 0.3 0.8 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net purchases sales of financial investments 8.3 11.0 Increase decrease in loans and receivables 8.3 1.6 Decrease in amounts due from subsidiaries 76.7 1.1 Increase decrease in amounts due to subsidiaries 103.7 109.7 Decrease increase in other payables 2.7 8.1 Cash generated from utilised in operations 110.1 104.2 Interest received 0.3 0.1 Dividend received 164.8 284.3 Income tax received 13.2 0.7 Net cash inflows from operating activities 288.4 180.9 Cash flows from investing activities Investment in subsidiary 0.1 16.5 Deferred payment for acquired subsidiary 0.1 Purchase of property and equipment 0.5 Net cash outflows from investing activities 0.6 16.6 Cash flows from financing activities Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares, including treasury shares 1.5 12.8 Dividends paid to owners of the Parent Company 26 131.2 121.3 Interest paid 21.4 22.5 Net repayment of borrowings 131.8 24.1 Purchase of ESOT and treasury shares 4.0 5.5 Net cash outflows used in financing activities 286.9 160.6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.9 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14.1 10.2 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 27 15.0 14.1 The attached notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Amlin plc 200 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 23.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation Amlin plc the Company, domiciled in the United Kingdom, is the ultimate Parent Company for the Amlin Group the Group.
The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The statement of financial position of the Company has also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRICs, as adopted for use in the European Union EU.
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the statement of profit or loss and statement of other comprehensive income of the Company are not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit after taxation for the year of the Company was 200.6 million 2013: 267.8 million.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for financial assets and liabilities, share options and cash and cash equivalents, which are measured at their fair value.
The accounting policies that are used in preparation of these statements are consistent with the accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as set out in those financial statements.
The additional accounting policies that are specific to the separate financial statements of the Company are set out below.
Investment in subsidiaries Other financial investments in Group undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events, or changes in circumstances, indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Parent Company risk disclosures The business of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiaries.
The Company also holds, on behalf of the Group, various instruments to hedge exposures arising from its investments in subsidiaries.
In the Company, gains and losses arising from such investments are taken to the profit or loss.
Details of such instruments are given in note 9 c. The Companys risks are considered to be the same as those in the operations of the Group itself.
Full details of the risks faced by the Group and the Groups risk management policies are given in notes 9, 12 and 13.
Employees and Directors All Amlin employees within the UK are employed by the Group service company, Amlin Corporate Services Limited.
Overseas employees are employed by the relevant foreign entities.
Therefore, the persons employed by the Company are nil 2013: nil.
The aggregation of the Companys Directors remuneration is in note 7 e to the Group financial statements.
Details of Directors remuneration, pension benefits and gains on the exercise of share options, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the Remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
The aggregation of the Companys key management personnel remuneration is in note 21 b to the Group financial statements.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2013 of 18.2 pence per ordinary share 90.8 31 December 2012 of 16.5 pence per ordinary share 82.4 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2014 of 8.1 pence per ordinary share 40.4 31 December 2013 of 7.8 pence per ordinary share 38.9 131.2 121.3 A final ordinary dividend of 18.9 pence per ordinary share for 2014, amounting to 94.4 million, payable in cash, and a special dividend of 15.0 pence per ordinary share, amounting to 74.9 million, payable in cash, were agreed by the Board on 27 February 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 21 May 2015, and have not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2014.
