Notes to the financial statements 1 General information measurements carried out by the Group, certain specific disclosures on fair values are required and are provided in note 20.
Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in As part of the May 2012 Improvements to IFRSs, the IASB made the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the amendments to the following standards that are relevant to the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended Groups operations: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, 30 June 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 34 Interim 10 September 2014.
The principal activity of the Group is described in financial reporting for application in accounting periods beginning the Directors report on page 52. on or after 1 January 2013.
The improvements were endorsed by the EU in March 2013.
2 Basis of preparation The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared New standards and interpretations not yet adopted in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups the following standards and interpretations relevant to the Groups reporting for the year ended 30 June 2014 and applied in accordance operations were issued by the IASB but are not yet mandatory.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Except where otherwise stated, the Group does not expect that The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern the adoption of the following standards will have a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
basis under the historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and IAS available-for-sale or classified as fair value through profit or loss.
28 Investment in associates and joint ventures were revised by the IASB in May 2011, for application in annual periods beginning The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section on or after 1 January 2013.
The revised standards were endorsed 408 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present its by the EU in December 2012 for application for annual periods individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
starting on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group plans to adopt The preparation of financial statements requires management to the revised IAS 27 and IAS 28 with effect from 1 July 2014. make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 Joint application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions were issued by the IASB in May 2011 for retrospective application are based on historical experience and various other factors that are in annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of standards were endorsed by the EU in December 2012 requiring which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying application no later than annual periods starting 1 January 2014. values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
IFRS 10 revises the concept of control and provides that an Further information about key assumptions and other key sources investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 32. to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs investee.
The Group will need to determine whether it controls New standards, interpretations and amendments an investment fund that it manages by focusing on its aggregate adopted during the year economic interest in the fund comprising any carried interests and The following standards and amendments to standards relevant to expected management fees and the investors rights to remove the Groups operations were adopted during the year.
Except where the Group as the fund manager.
The decision to consolidate any otherwise stated, these standards and amendments did not have a fund will be determined based on an assessment of whether the material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: Group acts as an agent or not for the investors.
However, consolidation procedures will remain unchanged.
An amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities was issued by The Group has assessed the impact on the consolidated balance the IASB in December 2011 for retrospective application in annual sheet of adopting IFRS 10 effective from 1 July 2014.
It is periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods estimated that consolidated total assets and total liabilities will each within those annual periods.
The amendment was endorsed by increase by 59.3 million as a result of consolidating five additional the EU in December 2012.
The amendments require disclosures funds where Ashmores aggregate economic interest in the fund regarding the Groups financial instruments that are either offset indicates that it acts as a principal.
However, this will have nil in the consolidated statement of financial position or subject to impact on the Groups reported net assets.
an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities consolidates IFRS 13 Fair value measurement was issued by the IASB in May and enhances disclosure requirements relating to interests of an 2011 for prospective application in annual periods beginning on entity in other entities.
It includes the disclosure requirements for or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, 2012.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS associates, special purpose vehicles and unconsolidated structures.
for all fair value measurements, provides guidance on how to The Group expects to expand disclosures in respect of measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted across unconsolidated investment funds in which it has an interest or for IFRSs and enhances disclosure requirements.
Although the which it is a sponsor.
application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements Notes to the Notes to the financi financia al statements l statements 1 1 G Ge ene nera rall iinf nfo orm rma ati tio on n mea meas sure ureme ments nts c carr arrie ied d o out ut by by t the he Gr Grou oup, p, c cert erta aiin n sp spec ecif ific ic Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities Basis of consolidation di disc scllos osur ures es on on f fa aiir r va vallu ue es s ar are e r re eq qu uiir red ed an and d ar are e pr pro ov viid fide ed d iin n not note e 2 20.
0. were issued by the IASB in October 2012 for application in annual A As sh hm mo or re e G Gr ro ou up p p pllc c t th he e C Com ompa pan ny y iis s a a p pu ub blliic c lliim miit te ed d c co omp mpa an ny y lliis st te ed d The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendments o on n t th he e L Lon ondo don n S St to oc ck k E Exc xch ha an ng ge e a an nd d iin nc cor orp po or ra at te ed d a an nd d d dom omiic ciille ed d iin n financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at As As pa part rt of of th the e M May ay 20 2012 12 IIm mpr prov ove em me en nts ts t to o IF IFR RS Ss, s, the the IIA AS SB B m ma ad fide e were endorsed by the EU in November 2013.
The amendments th the e Uni Unit te ed d Ki King ngdo dom.
m. The The co cons nsolid olida at te ed d fin fina anc ncial ial s st ta at temen ements ts o of f th the e 30 June 2014.
Subsidiaries are those entities, including investment ame amen nd dm ment ents s t to o the the f fo ollo llow win ing g st sta an nd da ard rds s t th hat at are are r re ele leva vant nt to to th the e introduced a special accounting requirement for investment Co Comp mpan any y a an nd its d its su subs bsidiar idiariies es t tog ogeth ethe er r t the he Gr Gro oup up for for t the he ye year ar e en nd fide ed d funds, over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, Gr Grou oups ps op oper erat atio ions: ns: IIA AS S 1 1 Pr Pres esen entat tatiio on n o of f F Fiina nanc ncia ial l Stat Statem eme ents nts, entities.
Where a reporting entity meets the definition of an 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4 w were ere aut auth hor oris ised ed f fo or r iss issue ue by by t the he B Bo oard ard of of Dir Direct ectors ors on on to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits IAS IAS 32 32 F Fiin na an nc ciia all IIn ns st tr rum ume en nt ts s:: P Pr re ese sent nta at tiio on n a and nd IIA AS S 3 34 4 Inter Interiim m investment entity, it does not consolidate its subsidiaries, or 10 10 Se Sept ptem ember ber 2 201 014.
T The he pr prin inc ciip pa al l a act ctiiv viit ty y o of f th the e Grou Group p is is fide descr scrib ibed ed in in from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that f fiin na an nc ciia all r re ep po or rt tiin ng g fo for r a appli pplic ca at tiio on n in in ac acco coun unti ting ng pe perio riod ds s be begin ginn nin ing g apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations when it obtains control t th he e D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t o on n p pa ag ge e 5 52 2.. presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The on on or or af after ter 1 1 J Ja an nu uar ary y 2 20 01 13 3.. T Th he e impr improv ovem ement ents s w we ere re en end do ors rsed ed of another entity.
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated b by y t th he e E EU U iin n M Mar arch ch 2 20 01 13 3.. 2 2 Ba Basis sis o of f pr prep epar arat ation ion financial statements from the date that control is transferred to the An amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation Th The e Gro Grou up p a and nd C Co om mp pa an ny y f fiina nanc ncia ial l stat statem emen ents ts ha hav five e b be ee en n p pr re ep par ared ed Group until the date that control ceases.
Intragroup balances and any N New ew st stan andards dards an and d int inter erp pr retat etatiions ons no not t y yet et a ad do op pte ted d offsetting financial instruments was issued by the IASB in iin n a ac cc co or rd da an nce ce w wiit th h IIn nt ter erna nat tiio on na all F Fiin na an nc ciia all R Rep epor ort tiin ng g S St ta and ndar ard ds s IIF FR RS S unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from At At t the he dat date e of a of au uthor thorisa isat tio ion n of of t the hese se co cons nso ollid idate ated d f fiin na an nc cia ial l sta stat te em me ents nts December 2011, for retrospective application in annual periods a as s a ad do op pt te ed d b by y th the e E Eur urop opea ean n U Un niio on n E EU U e eff ffec ect tiiv five e f for or t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated the the f fo oll llow owiin ng g st sta an ndards dards a and nd int inte er rp pret reta at tiions ons relev releva an nt t to to the the G Groups roups beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendment was re repo portin rting g fo for r th the e y ye ea ar r en ended ded 30 30 Ju June ne 20 2014 14 and and app applie lied d in in ac acco cord rdanc ance e financial statements.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the op opera erat tio ions ns w we er re e is issu sue ed d b by y th the e IIA AS SB B b bu ut t a ar re e not not y ye et t m ma an nd dat ator ory.
y. endorsed by the EU in December 2012. wit with h t the he pro prov vis isio ions ns of of th the Co e Comp mpa an nie ies s A Ac ct t 20 2006.
06. year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive E Ex xc ce ep pt t w wh he er re e o ot th he er rw wiis se e s st ta at te ed, d, t th he e G Gr ro ou up p d do oe es s n not ot e exp xpec ect t t th ha at t An amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for income from the effective date of acquisition.
Th The e f fiin nan anc cia ial l stat statem ement ents s h hav ave e b be een en pre prepa par re ed d o on n a a go going ing co conc ncer ern n t th he e a ad do op pt tiio on n o of f t th he e f fo oll llo ow wiin ng g s st ta an nd da ar rds ds w wiillll h ha av five e a a m ma at ter eriia all iim mp pa ac ct t non-financial assets was issued by the IASB in May 2013, for on on t the he Gro Group ups s c con onso solidat lidated ed f fiina nan ncia cial st l stat atem ement ents.
s. ba basis sis u un nder der t th he e hist histor oric ica all c co ost st co conv nvent ention, ion, ex exce cept pt for for t the he Based on their nature, the interests of third-parties in funds that retrospective application in annual periods beginning on or mea meas su ure reme ment nt a at t fa fair ir v va allu ue e of of ce cert rtain ain f fiina nanc ncia ial l as asse sets ts th that at a ar re e are consolidated consolidated funds are classified as liabilities IAS IAS 27 27 C Co ons nso ollid ida at ted ed an and d s se epar para ate te fina financ ncial ial st state atem ment ents s a and nd IIA AS S after 1 January 2014. av availab ailablle-fo e-for-s r-sa ale or le or c cllas assif sifiie ed d a as s fa fair ir va valu lue e t th hro rou ugh gh prof profit it or or los loss s.. and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds on the 28 28 IIn nv five est stme ment nt in in ass asso oc ciat iate es s an and d joint joint five vent nture ures s wer were e r re ev viis se ed d b by y IFRS 9 Financial instruments was originally issued in November Groups balance sheet.
the the IIA AS SB B in in Ma May y 20 2011, 11, f fo or r ap app pllica icat tion ion in in a an nn nu ua all per perio iod ds s b be eg giinn nning ing T Th he e C Co om mp pa an ny y h ha as s t ta ak ke en n a adv dvan ant ta ag ge e o of f t th he e e exe xem mp pt tiion on iin n s sec ect tiio on n 2009, reissued in October 2010, and then amended in November o on n o or r a af fte ter r 1 1 Ja Janu nua ar ry y 20 2013 13..
The The re revi vised sed s st ta an nd da ards rds we were re en endo dorsed rsed 4 40 08 8 o of f t th he e C Com omp pa an niie es s A Ac ct t 2 200 006 w 6 wh hiic ch h a allllo ow ws s i it t n not ot t to o p pr re es sen ent t i it ts s The Group has an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that acts as an 2013.
IFRS 9 includes requirements for recognition and by by t the he E EU U in in fide Dec ce em mber ber 20 201 12 2 for for ap app pllica icat tio ion n for for an annu nua all p pe er riio od ds s iindi ndivid vidual ual s st ta at te em me en nt t o of f co comp mpre rehen hensi sive five iinco ncom me e and and r rela elat ted ed no note tes s.. agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation measurement, derecognition and hedge accounting for financial start startiin ng g o on n or or aft afte er 1 r 1 Ja Janu nuar ary 2 y 20 01 14 4.
T. The he Gr Gro oup up pla plan ns t s to o a ad do op pt t plans.
Accordingly, the EBT is included within the Group and Th The e pr pre epar parat atiio on n of of f fiin nan anc ciia all st stat ate em me ent nts s r req equ uiir res es m man ana age gem me ent nt t to o instruments.
The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 to add new the r the re ev viise sed I d IA AS 2 S 27 7 a and I nd IA AS 2 S 28 8 w wiit th h eff effe ec ct t fr from 1 om 1 J Ju uly 2 ly 20 014.
mak make e ju jud dgem geme en nt ts s, es, est tiima mate tes s a and nd as assum sump pt tiion ons s th tha at t aff affe ect ct t the he requirements for impairment of financial assets measured at IIF FR RS S 1 10 0 Co Cons nsolid olida at te ed d fin fina anc ncial ial s st ta at temen ements ts, IFR IFRS S 1 11 1 Jo Joint int ap app pllica icat tio ion n of of po polic liciies es an and d r re ep po ort rte ed d am amo ount unts s of of as asset sets s a and nd liab liabilit ilitiie es s, amortised cost and include limited amendments to the Associates and joint ventures arra arrangem ngements ents and IFRS and IFRS 12 12 Dis Disc cllo osur sure e of of int intere erest sts s in in ot other her e ent ntiit tiie es s iin nc com ome e a and nd ex exp pen ense ses.
s. T The he es est tiim mat ates es an and d a ass ssoc ociia at te ed d a ass ssum umpt ptiio ons ns classification and measurement requirements.
The IASB is Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has wer were e iss issu ued ed by by t the he IIA AS SB B in in M May ay 20 2011 11 f for or r retr etros osp pect ective ive ap app pllic ica at tio ion n a ar re e b ba as se ed d o on n h his ist to or riic ca all e exp xper eriie enc nce e a an nd d v var ariio ous us o ot th he er r f fa ac ct to or rs s t th ha at t a ar re e adding to the standard as it completes the various phases of its significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through iin n a annu nnual al p pe er rio iods ds b begi eginni nning ng on on or or a after fter 1 1 J Ja an nu ua ar ry y 20 2013 13.. Th The e be belie liev ved ed t to o b be e r re eas ason onab able le u un nd fide er r t the he circ circum umsta stan nc ce es, s, th the e re resu sults lts of of comprehensive project on financial instruments, and so it will which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity sta stand ndar ards ds w wer ere e en endor dors sed ed by by t the he E EU U in in Dec Decem embe ber r 20 2012 12 r re equ quir iring ing whi whic ch h fo form rm th the e b ba as siis s of of ma maki king ng th the e ju judg dgemen ements ts ab abou out t ca carryi rrying ng eventually form a complete replacement for IAS 39 Financial which is subject to joint control.
ap app plliica cat tiio on n n no o llat ater er t th han an a ann nnua uall p per eriio ods ds st sta ar rt tiin ng g 1 1 Ja Janu nuar ary y 20 201 14.
4. va valu lue es s of of as asset sets s an and d liab liabilit ilitiies es t th ha at t are are not not re read adily ily a ap pp pa are rent nt fr from om Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 requires o ot the her r sou sour rce ces s.. Ac Act tual ual r res esul ult ts s ma may y differ differ from from thes these e est estiim ma ates.
financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are IFR IFRS S 10 10 r rev eviise ses t s the he co conc ncep ept t of of co contr ntro ol l an and d p pr ro ov vid ide es s th that at a an n Furt Furth her er inf inform ormat ation ion ab about out k key ey a ass ssum umpt ptiio ons ns an and d o ot ther her ke key y s sou our rc ces es fair value and amortised cost.
Classification will depend on an recognised using the equity method of accounting.
Under this in inv five est stor or c co ontro ntrols ls an an in inv five est stee ee wh when en it it is is e ex xp po os sed, ed, or or h has as r riigh ghts, ts, of of e est stiim mat atiio on n a an nd d ar area eas s of of jjud udg ge em me ent nt ar are e s set et out out iin n n not ote e 32.
32. entitys business model and the characteristics of contractual cash method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, including to to v va ar riia ab blle e r re et tu urns rns from from iits ts inv invo ollv vement ement w wiit th h the the iin nvestee vestee a and nd flow of the financial instrument.
Although there are expected to be attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the postha has s the the a ab bili ility ty t to o affect affect t th hose ose re ret tu urns rns t th hr ro ough ugh iit ts s power power over over the the 3 3 E Ef ff fe ect cts s o of f n ne ew w a an nd d a am me en nd fide ed d IIF FR RS Ss s significant changes to the classification and presentation of financial acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups in inv vest estee.
Th The e Gr Grou oup p w will ill n nee eed d t to o det determ ermiine ne wh whet ether her it it co contr ntro ols ls N New ew st stan andards dards, inte interp rpret retat atiions ons a an nd d ame amendm ndments ents instruments by the Group, there is not expected to be a significant share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement a an n iin nv ves est tme men nt t f fu un nd d t tha hat t iit t m ma an na ag ges es b by y f foc ocus usiin ng g o on n iit ts s a ag gg gr re ega gat te e ad adop opted ted du duri ring ng th the e year year impact on net assets.
Retrospective application is required and of comprehensive income.
e ec co on no om miic c iin nt ter ere es st t iin n t th he e f fu un nd d co com mp pr riis sin ing g a any ny c ca ar rr riie ed d iin nt te er res est ts s a an nd d IFRS 9 is anticipated to be effective for annual periods beginning on Th The e fo follow llowiing ng sta stan nd da ard rds s a and nd am ame en nd dm me en nts ts t to o s st ta an ndar dard ds s r re ele leva vant nt t to o ex expe pecte cted d m ma an na ag ge em ment ent f fe ees es a an nd d the the inv inve est stor ors s r riig gh hts ts t to o r re em mo ov five e Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those or after 1 January 2018.
The Group continues to monitor the the Gr Gro oup ups o s oper perat atio ions ns w wer ere e a ado dopte pted d d dur uriing ng t the he y year.
Ex Exce cept pt wh wher ere e the the Gr Gro oup up as as t the he fun fund d m man anag ager.
T The he fide dec ciis siion on t to o c co ons nso ollida idat te e an any y of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial developments regarding IFRS 9 and will provide an impact oth othe erw rwise ise sta stat te ed d, the thes se e sta stan ndar dard ds s a and nd am amen endm dme en nts ts d diid d not h not ha av five e a a fun fund d w will ill b be e d fide et te ermin rmined ed ba base sed d o on n an an a as ss se essm ssme en nt t of of w whet hethe her r th the e information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
assessment once the IASB has completed the project subject to mat mater eriia all im impa pact ct on on t the he Gro Group ups s c con onso solidat lidated ed f fiina nan ncia cial l st stat atem ement ents: s: Gr Grou oup p a ac ct ts s a as s a an n ag agent ent or or not not f fo or r the the inv inve est stor ors.
s. Ho Howev weve er, r, endorsement by the EU.
Foreign currency co cons nso olliid dat atiio on n pr pro oce cedur dures es w wiillll r rem emai ain n u un nch chan ange ged.
d. An An am amen endm dme en nt t t to o IF IFR RS S 7 7 Fi Fina nancia nciall in ins st trumen rument ts s:: Di Discl sclos osures ures The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling The Group will continue to measure all equity investments at fair offs offsett ettiing ng f fiina nanc ncial ial as asse sets ts an and d f fiin nan ancia cial l lia liab bilit ilities ies w wa as s iiss ssu ue ed d b by y Th The e Gro Grou up p h has as a ass sses esse sed d th the e im imp pact act on on t th he e c con onso sollid idat ated ed ba balan lance ce Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation value with an irrevocable option to recognise through equity fair t th he e IASB IASB iin n fide Dece cemb mbe er r 2 2011 011 f fo or r re ret tr rosp ospec ecti tive five ap appli plica cat tio ion n iin n an annu nual al sh sheet eet of of ad adopt optin ing g IF IFR RS S 1 10 0 ef effe fect ctive ive fr from om 1 1 J Ju uly ly 2 20 01 14 4..
Items included in the financial statements of each of value gains and losses on equity investments that are not held for per periiod ods s b be egi gin nni nin ng g o on n or or af aft ter er 1 1 Ja Janu nuar ary y 20 201 13 3 a and nd iint nter eriim m p per eriio od ds s est estiim mat ated ed t th hat at c con onso solliidat dated ed t tot ota all as asset sets s a and nd t tot ota all lliia ab biilliit tiie es s w wiillll e eac ach h the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the trading.
However, gains and losses recognised through equity wit with hin in th thos ose e a ann nnua uall p per eriio od ds.
s. T The he ame amen ndm dment ent wa was s en endor dorse sed d by by in incr crea ease se by by 5 59.
9.3 3 m millio illion n a as s a a r res esult ult of of co cons nso ollid idat ating ing f fiive five ad add diit tiio ona nall primary economic environment in which the entity operates: cannot be subsequently recycled to comprehensive income on the the E EU U in in fide Dece cemb mber er 2 201 012.
T Th he e ame amen ndm dment ents s r re equ quir ire e d diisc sclos losure ures s fun fund ds s wh wher ere e A As shm hmore ores a s aggr ggre eg ga at te e e ec co on no om mic ic inte interest rest in in th the e f fu un nd d the functional currency.
impairment or disposal of the investments as is the case for equity reg rega ar rd din ing g th the e Gr Grou oups ps f fiina nanc ncia ial in l instru strume ment nts s th that at a ar re e e eiit th he er r off offs set et iin nd diic cat ates es t tha hat t iit t a act cts s as as a a pr priinc nciipa pall..
However, However, this this will will have have nil nil investments currently classified as available-for-sale.
in in th the e c co on ns so olidat lidated ed stat statem eme en nt t of of fina financ ncial ial p po os siit tiion on or or s su ub bjject ect to to im impa pact ct on on t the he Gr Grou oups ps r re ep po ort rted ed n ne et t a as ss se ets.
Foreign currency transactions an an enf enfor orce ceab able le mas mast ter ne er nett ttin ing g ar arran rang ge em me en nt t or or s siimilar milar a ag gr re ee em me en nt.
t. 4 Significant accounting policies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective IIF FR RS S 1 12 2 Disc Discllos osu ur re e of of IIn nt te ere rest sts s in in Othe Other r E En nt tiit tiies es c co on ns so olliid da at te es s IIF FR RS S 1 13 3 F Fa aiir r v va allu ue e m me ea as su ur re em me en nt t was was issued issued by by t th he e IASB IASB iin n May May functional currency of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates a an nd d en enha hanc nces es dis disc cllo osu sure re req requ uiir remen ements ts rel rela atin ting g to to iin nte tere rests sts o of f an an The following principal accounting policies have been applied 20 2011 11 f for or pro prosp spe ec ctive tive ap app pllica icat tio ion n in in an annu nua all p per eriio ods ds b beg egiinn nning ing on on at the date of the transactions.
ent entit ity y in in ot other her en entit titiies.
It It inc incllud udes es the the d diis sc cllo osur sure e r re equ quir irem ement ents s f for or consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing o or r a af ft ter er 1 1 J Jan anua uar ry y 2 201 013 3 a an nd d w wa as s e en nd do or rs se ed b d by y t th he e E EU U iin n D fide ec cem embe ber r all all f for orm ms s of of int inter erest ests s in in oth other er ent entities, ities, in inc cllu ud diin ng g jo joint int ar arra rang ngem ement ents s, with items which are considered material in relation to the 2 20 01 12 2.. IIF FR RS S 1 13 3 e est sta ab blliis sh he es s a a s siin ngl gle e s so ou ur rc ce e o of f g gu uiid da an nc ce e u un nd fide er r IIF FR RS S as asso sociat ciate es, s, sp spec ecial ial pu purp rpos ose e v veh ehiic clles es an and d u unc ncon onso solid lidat ated ed str struct uctur ure es.
s. Group and Company financial statements, unless otherwise f fo or r all all fai fair r val value ue m me easu asur rem emen ent ts s, p pr rovi ovide des s g guid uidan ance ce on on ho how w to to T Th he e G Gr roup oup ex expec pects ts to to ex expan pand d di disc sclo losu sure res s in in res respec pect t o of f stated.
Certain limited presentational amendments were made mea meas su ure re f fa air ir v va allu ue e wh whe en n fa fair ir va value lue is is r re equ quir ired ed or or pe permitte rmitted d a ac cr ro os ss s un unco cons nso ollid idate ated d inv inve est stme ment nt f fu un nd ds s in in wh which ich it it ha has s a an n int inte ere rest or st or fo for r to prior year disclosure notes to enhance consistency with IFR IFRS Ss s a and nd en enha han nce ces s d diis sc cllo os sure ure r re equ quir irem ement ents.
s. A Allth thou ough gh t th he e w wh hic ich h it it is is a a s sp po on ns so or r.. current year disclosures.
ap app pllica icat tio ion n of of IIF FR RS S 1 13 3 h has as no not t m ma ater teriia allly ly im impa pact cte ed d th the e fa fair ir va value lue 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently, changes Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be a at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in comprehensive at the spot exchange rate at that date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it will liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
If share-based payment awards replacement awards are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally acquirees awards and relate to past services, then all or a portion recognised in comprehensive income.
However, foreign currency of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included differences arising from the translation of the following items are recognised in other comprehensive income: in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination.
This determination is based on market-based value available-for-sale equity instruments: and of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to pre-combination service.
Goodwill Foreign operations The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of net The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible assets and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment or Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at when there is an indication of impairment.
the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive Intangible assets income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to brand names, acquired as part of a business combination are their non-controlling interests.
fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve from the management contracts and brand name in place at the related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive date of acquisition.
income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less while retaining control, then the relevant proportion of the cumulative any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives which have been assessed as being between 31 months and eight years.
If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable Non-controlling interests NCI future, then foreign currency differences arising on the item NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees form part of the net investment in the foreign operation and are identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the Groups recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are the foreign currency translation reserve within equity.
accounted for as equity transactions.
Business combinations Property, plant and equipment Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is determined on the basis on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
of the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.
Property, The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally measured plant and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable net assets over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability resulting from equipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and a contingent consideration arrangement and equity instruments issued useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they are Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are charged as the related revenue is recognised.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 4 4 Significant Significant accounting accounting policies policies c co ontinued ntinued Any contingent consideration to b Any contingent consideration to be transfe e transferred by rred by the acquirer will be the acquirer will be Financial instruments Available-for-sale financial assets recognised at fair recognised at fair value at the value at the acqui acquisition date.
Subse Subsequently, quently, changes changes Mo Monet netar ary y a as ss se ets ts an and d liab liabilit ilitiies es fide deno nomina minate ted d in in f fo or re eig ign n c cu urr rren encie cies s Recognition and initial measurement Available-for-sale financial assets include readily realisable interests to the to the fair value o fair value of f the the contingent c contingent consideration that i onsideration that is s deemed to deemed to be a be a at at th the e b ba ala lanc nce e s sh heet eet dat date e are t are tr ra an nslat slated ed into into t th he e fu funct nctiion ona all c cu urr rren ency cy of less than 50% in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party liabi liability will be recognised in accordance with lity will be recognised in accordance with I IA AS 39 S 39 in comprehensive in comprehensive at at th the e s sp pot ot e ex xc ch han ange ge r ra at te e at at t th ha at t dat date e.. No Non-m n-mo on ne et ta ary ry as asset sets s a and nd to this category or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value plus income.
I If f the the co contingent considerat ntingent consideration is classified as equity, ion is classified as equity, it will it will li liabil abiliti ities es t tha hat t ar are e m me eas asur ured ed iin n te term rms s of of hi hist sto or ric ical al co cos st t in in a a fo fore reign ign carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair value not be remeasu not be remeasured and settlemen red and settlement is accounted t is accounted for for within equity.
c cu ur rr re enc ncy a y ar re e t tr ra an ns slla at te ed d u us siin ng g t th he e e ex xc ch ha an ng ge e r rat ate e a at t t th he e d da at te e comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are of of th the e tr tran ansa sact ctio ion.
n. which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits If If sh shareare-ba base sed d pa payme ymen nt t awa awar rd ds s r rep eplac lace em ment ent aw awa ar rds ds are are r re equ quir ired ed comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when to to b be e e ex xc ch ha an nge ged d for for a aw war ards ds he held ld by by t the he ac acqu quir ire ee es s emp emplloy oye ee es s For Fore eiig gn n c cur urr ren ency cy differ differe enc nces es ar aris ising ing on on t tr ra ans nslla at tio ion n ar are e ge gene nera rally lly comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or ac acq qu uiir ree ees s a aw war ards ds a an nd d re relate late to to pa past st s se erv rvice ices s, t th hen en all all or or a a p po ort rtio ion n rec reco og gn niis sed ed in in c co ompr mpre eh he en ns siv ive e in inc co om me e.. How Howe ev five er, r, f fo ore reign ign cu curre rrenc ncy y recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all of of th the e a am mo ou un nt t of of the the ac acqu quir irer ers s re replac placem eme en nt t a aw war ards ds is is inc incllud uded ed diffe differe renc nces es ar aris isin ing fro g from t m the tr he tran ans sllat atio ion of t n of th he fo e follo llowing wing it item ems ar s are e With effect from 1 July 2013, the Group changed its accounting policy risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised rec reco og gn niis sed ed in in o ot ther her co compr mpre ehe hens nsive ive in inc co om me e: : in in me meas asur uring ing t the he co cons nsider iderat atio ion n tr tran ansfer sferre red d in in t the he bu bus siin fines ess s to classify new readily realisable interests of less than 50% in seeded when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled com comb bin inat ation.
This is d deter eterm min inat atio ion n is is b bas ased on mar ed on mark ket-b et-bas ased va ed value lue a av va aila ilable ble--for-sa for-sale le e equi quity ty in ins st tru ruments ments:: an and d funds as fair value through profit or loss investments and not as or expires.
of of th the e r re ep pllac acem eme en nt t a aw war ards ds co comp mpare ared d w wiit th h th the e m ma arketrket-b ba as se ed d va valu lue e available-for-sale financial assets.
qu qua allify ifyiing ng ca cash sh f fllow ow h he ed dg ge es t s to o t th he e e ex xte tent nt t th hat at th the e he hedg dge e of of th the e a ac cqu quiir ree ees s awar award ds s a and nd t the he ext exten ent t to to wh whic ich h t the he r rep epllac acem emen ent t Subsequent measurement awar award ds s re relate late t to o prepre-co comb mbinat ination ion ser serv vic ice.
Financial assets designated as fair value through profit The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on or loss FVTPL their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: G Go oo od dw wiillll Foreign Foreign operati operations ons Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable recognition and measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current assets heldTh The e c co ost st of of a a b bu us sin ines ess s c co om mb bina inat tion ion in in e ex xc ce es ss s of of t the he f fa air ir v va allu ue e of of n ne et t T Th he e a ass sset ets s a an nd d li lia ab biilliit tiie es s o of f f fo or re eiig gn n o op per era at tiio on ns, s, iin nc cllu ud diin ng g g go oo od dw wiillll interests of less than 50% in seeded funds, non-current asset for-sale and discontinued operations.
iiden denti tifi fiabl able e a ass sse ets ts o or r li liabili abiliti ties es ac acqu quired ired, iincl ncludi uding ng in intan tangibl gible e a ass sse ets ts an and d fa fair ir va value lue ad adjust justme ments nts ar aris ising ing on on co cons nso ollid idat atio ion n, are are tr tran ans slla at te ed d investments and derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets iiden denti tifi fied ed, iis s re recog cogn nis ised ed as as go good odwill will an and d s st tated ated a at t co cos st t le less ss an any y in into to St Ster erlin ling g at at t th he e s spot pot ex exch cha ang nge e rate rates s at at th the e b ba alla an nc ce e s she heet et dat date.
e. Financial assets as FVTPL when: a ac cc cu um mu ulla at te ed d iim mpa paiir rm me en nt t llo os ss se es s.. G Go oo odw dwiillll h ha as s a an n iin nd def efiin niit te e u us se ef fu ull lliif fe e, T Th he e rev revenu enues es and and ex expe pens nses es of of forei foreig gn n op opera erat tio ions ns a ar re e tran transl slated ated iin nto to The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: iis s n no ot t su subje bjec ct t to to a am morti ortisa sati tion on an and d iis s tes test ted ed an annua nually lly fo for r impai impair rme men nt t o or r S St ter erlliin ng g at at r rat ates es ap appr pro ox xiim mat atiin ng g t to o t the he f for ore eiig gn n e exc xch han ange ge r rat ates es r ru ulliin ng g at at the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally financial assets held-for-sale, investment securities, fair value through w wh he en n t th her ere e iis s a an n iin nd diic cat atiio on n o of f iim mp pai air rm me en nt t.. the the dat date es s of of t th he e tran trans sa ac ct tiion ons.
s. on a fair value basis: and profit or loss investments, available-for-sale financial assets and nonFor Fore eiig gn n c cu urr rren ency cy differ differe enc nces es are r are re ec co og gn niis sed ed in ot in oth he er c r co om mp pre reh he en ns siv ive e current financial assets held-for-sale.
the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces Intangi Intangible ble assets assets in inc co ome, me, an and ac d acc cu um mu ulat lated ed in in th the e f fo ore reign ign cu curre rrenc ncy y t tr ran ans sllat ation ion r re eser serv five, e, an accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
Th The e c co ost st of of inta intan ng gib ible le as ass se ets, ts, su suc ch h a as s ma mana nag ge em me ent nt c cont ontra racts cts an and d The Group may, from time to time, invest in funds where an Ashmore ex exce cept pt t to o th the e e ex xt tent ent t th ha at t th the e tr tran anslat slation ion diffe differe renc nce e is is a alloc lloca ate ted d t to o b br ra an nd d n na am me es s, a ac cqu quiir re ed d a as s p pa ar rt t o of f a a b bus usiin ne es ss s co com mb biin na at tiio on n a ar re e t th he ei ir r Group subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser seeding.
From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL all no non-c n-cont ontro rollin lling g in intere terest sts.
s. fa fair ir v va allu ue e a as s at at t th he e d da ate te of of a ac cq qu uiisit sitiio on n.. Th The e fa fair ir va valu lue e at at t the he da date te of of Where the holding in such investments is deemed to represent a subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, ac acqu quisitio isition n is is c ca allcu cula late ted d u us sin ing g t th he e disc disco ount unted ed ca cash sh flow flow m me et th ho od do ollo og gy y Wh When en a a f fo ore reign ign op opera erat tio ion n is d is diisp spos osed ed of of s su uc ch h t th ha at t co contr ntro ol l is is lo lost, st, controlling stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of a an nd d r re ep pr re es se ent nts s t th he e v va allu ua at tiio on n o of f t the he p pr ro of fiit ts s e ex xp pe ec ct te ed d t to o b be e e ear arne ned d the the cu cumu mulat latiiv five e a am mo ount unfit in in th the e f fo or re eig ign n c cu urr rren ency cy tr tra an ns slla at tio ion n re rese serv rve e subsequent disposal through sale or dilution, these seed capital comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
from from t th he e ma mana nag gem ement ent co contr ntract acts s an and d br bran and d nam name e in in p plla ace ce at at t the he re relat lated ed to to t that hat fo for re eiig gn n o ope per rat ation ion is is re rec clla ass ssiif fiied ed t to o co com mpr preh ehen ens siv ive e investments are recognised as non-current financial assets held-fordat date e of of ac acq quis uisit itio ion.
n. i FVTPL investments in inc co ome me as pa as part rt o of f the the ga gain in o or r lo loss ss on on d diis sp po os sa all..
If If t th he e Gro Group up d diis sp pos ose es s sale in accordance with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the As noted under available-for-sale financial assets above, the Group only only part part of of its its iin nterest terest in a in a s su ubs bsidi idia ary ry t th hat at inc inclludes udes a a for fore eiig gn n operat operatiion on investment in the fund as a held-for-sale asset and the interest Fo Follllo ow win ing g in init itiia al l r re ec co og gn niit tiio on n, int inta an ng giib ble as le ass se et ts s ar are e car carr riied ed at at c co ost st le less ss changed its accounting policy with effect from 1 July 2013 to wh while ile r re et ta ain ining ing c contr ontro ol, l, t th he en n th the e r re ele leva vant nt pr pro oport portiio on n of of t th he e c cu um mu ulat latiive five held by other parties as a liability held-for-sale.
Where control is a an ny y ac accu cumu mula late ted d a am mor orti tisa sati tion on an and d impai impair rme ment nt loss losses es..
In Inta tangi ngible ble classify new readily realisable interests of less than 50% in seeded amo amou un nt t is is r re eat attr tribut ibuted ed to to no non-c n-co on ntro trollin lling g int inte er re est sts.
s. not deemed to exist, and the assets are readily realisable, they are as asset sets s ar are e a am mo or rt tiis se ed, if d, if a appr pprop opriat riate, o e, ov ver er t th heir eir u us sef eful ul live lives s w wh hic ich h funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly recognised as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss in h hav ave e b bee een n a ass ssess essed ed as as bei being ng be bet tw we een en 3 31 1 m mon ont ths hs an and d ei eigh ght t ye year ars.
s. If If the the se sett ttle leme ment nt of of a a m mo onet netar ary y it item em r re ec ce eiv ivab able le fr from om o or r p pa ay ya ab blle e to to recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive accordance with IAS 39.
Where the assets are not readily realisable, a a fo forei reig gn n ope opera ratio tion n iis s ne neithe ither r pla plan nn ne ed d no nor r li likel kely y in in th the e fo fore rese seea eable ble income.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to they are recognised as non-current asset investments.
If a seed Non-c Non-co ontrolling ntrolling interests interests NCI NCI f fu ut tu ur re e, t th he en n f fo or re eiig gn n c cu ur rr re en nc cy y d diif ff fe er re enc nce es s a ar riis siin ng g o on n t th he e iit tem em which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of capital investment remains under the control of the Group for more NCI NCI ar are e m me ea as su ure red d at at t th he eiir r pr prop oport ortiion onate ate sh shar are e of of t th he e a ac cq qu uiire rees es form form par part t of of t th he e net net inv inve est stme ment nt in in th the e f fo ore reign ign op ope er rat atio ion n a and nd ar are e additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close than one year from the original investment date, the underlying fund id ide ent ntiif fiia ab ble le net net a ass ssets ets at at t the he ac acqu quis isit ition ion da date.
C Cha hang nges es t to o t the he Gr Grou oups ps rec reco og gn niis sed ed in in o ot ther her co compr mpre ehe hens nsive ive in inc co om me e, a and nd a ac cc cu um mu ulat lated ed in in of a fund has not occurred.
in inter teres est t in a in a su sub bs sid idiar iary y th that at d do o n not ot res resu ult lt in in a a lo loss ss o of f co contr ntro ol l ar are e the the f fo or re eiig gn n c cu urr rrenc ency y tra trans nslat latiion on r re eser serv five e within within equity.
ac acco count unte ed d for for as as eq equ uiity ty tr tra an ns sact actio ions.
Investment securities ii Non-current asset investments Bus Busiiness ness c co omb mbinat inations ions Investment securities represent listed securities, other than Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which are Pr Prop oper erty, ty, pl plant ant and and eq equip uipm men ent t Bu Bus siin fines ess s c com omb binat ination ions s ar are e a acc cco ount unted ed for for us using ing t the he ac acqu quis isit itio ion n derivatives, held by consolidated funds.
These securities are held at designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in P Pr ro op pe er rt ty y, p plla ant nt a an nd d e eq qu uiip pm me ent nt iis s s st ta at te ed d a at t c co os st t lle es ss s a ac cc cum umul ula at te ed d m me et tho hod d a as s a at t t th he e a ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on n d dat ate e.. T Th he e a acq cqu uiis siit tiio on n d da at te e iis s t th he e d da at te e fair value with gains and losses recognised through the consolidated fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of fide depre prec ciat iatiio on n a and nd im impa pair irme ment nt los loss ses.
Co Cost st is is d deter eterm mine ined d on on t the he ba basis sis on on w wh hic ich h t the he ac acqu quir irer er e effe ffect ctiv ive elly y obt obta aiin ns s c cont ontro rol l of of th the e a ac cqu quiir ree.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of of of th the e dire direct ct a and nd in ind diir re ect ct co cost sts s th tha at t are are d diire rect ctly ly attr attribut ibutab able.
Pro Prop pe erty rty, the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise The consideration transfe The consideration transferred rred for th for the acquisition is generally measured e acquisition is generally measured pla plan nt t a and nd eq equ uiip pm me en nt t is is fide depre prec cia iated ted us using ing t th he e str stra aig ightht-llin ine e me meth tho od d Non-current financial assets held-for-sale as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where at the at the acquisition date fair value, acquisition date fair value, as as are are the identifiable net assets the identifiable net assets ov over er th the e est estiimat mated ed us usefu efull live lives s, a as ss se es ss se ed d to to b be e f fiiv five e y ye ear ars s fo for r off offiice ce Non-current financial assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower the final close of a fund has not occurred.
acquired, liabilitie acquired, liabilities incurred s incurred includi including ng any asset or lia any asset or liability resulting from bility resulting from eq equ uiip pm me en nt t a and f nd four ye our years ars for for IIT T e eq qu uiipm pment.
Th The e r re es siidu dual al va value lues s a an nd d of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where a contingent cons a contingent consideration arrange ideration arrangement and ment and equity equity instruments issued instruments issued us usefu efull liv live es s of of as asset sets s ar are e r re ev viiewe ewed d at at lea leas st t a an nn nu ua ally.
measurement and re-measurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. iii Derivatives by the Group in e by the Group in exchange for con xchange for cont trol of the rol of the acquiree.
Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options Def Defe erred rred acqui acquis sit itiion on costs costs Ac Acqu quis isit itio ion n r re elat lated ed co costs sts ar are e e exp xpen ense sed d a as s in incur curr re ed, d, e exc xcept ept if t if th hey ey are are financial assets held-for-sale, because the Group has been deemed as used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and Co Cost sts s th that at a ar re e d diir re ect ctly ly att attr rib ibuta utab ble le to to s se ec cu ur riin ng g a an n in inve vestm stment ent re relat lated ed to to t the he iss issue ue of of d fide eb bt t or eq or equity uity se secur curiit tiies.
holding a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised at man mana age geme ment nt c co ontra ntract ct are are fide deferr ferred ed if if t th he ey y c ca an n b be e id ide en nt tiif fiie ed d s se ep pa ar ra ate tely ly such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered and an and d m mea easur sured ed re relia liab bly ly an and d it it is is pro proba bab ble le t that hat th they ey will will be be r rec ecov over ered ed.. the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Transaction costs are fide Deferred ferred ac acqui quisi siti tion on cos cost ts s re represe presen nt t the the co con nt tra ractua ctuall righ right t to to b bene enefi fit t profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
f fr ro om m p pr ro ov viid diin ng g iin nv five es st tm me en nt t ma mana nag gem eme en nt t s se er rv viic ce es s a an nd d a ar re e c cha har rg ge ed d a as s movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is the the r re ela late ted d re reve ven nue ue is is re reco cogn gnise ised.
d. accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised and Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing bid derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised for the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last known in other comprehensive income.
bid price on the main market on which the securities are traded.
In Trade and other receivables the case of securities for which trading on an actively traded and Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus organised financial market is not significant, but which are bought and transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost.
sold on a secondary market with regulated trading among security Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable dealers with the effect that the price is set on a market basis, the amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive valuation may be based on this secondary market.
income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not receivables are impaired.
However, if a longer-term receivable traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used carries no interest, the fair value is estimated as the present value by valuation specialists.
These techniques include the market of all future cash payments or receipts discounted using the Groups approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which weighted average cost of capital.
The resulting adjustment is sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market recognised as interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions to initial recognition these assets are measured at amortised cost or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the less any impairment.
use of the income approach generally consists of the net present Cash and cash equivalents value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents for liquidity, credit, market and or other risk factors.
comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of the instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
last available NAV of the units or shares of such funds.
Financial liabilities The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: the balance sheet date.
non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale, financial liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Hedge accounting The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other parties conditions must be met: in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These liabilities are carried at fair formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging value with gains or losses recognised in the statement of instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception: comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present Financial liabilities at FVTPL an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments comprehensive income: and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed on an ongoing basis.
Other financial liabilities For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of the Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income in interest rate method.
the same period during which the relevant financial asset or liability Fair value of financial instruments affects the Groups results.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price in of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or is date.
In determining fair value, the Group uses various valuation sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable inputs and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual observable inputs be used when available.
Observable inputs are inputs rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of developed based on market data obtained from sources independent ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial liability of the Group.
Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Groups when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or assumptions about the assumptions other market participants would they expire.
use in pricing the asset or liability, developed based on the best information available in the circumstances.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 4 4 Significant Significant accounting accounting policies policies c co ontinued ntinued Se Secu curit ritiie es s list listed ed on on a a re reco cog gn nise ised d sto stock ck ex exch chan ang ge e or or d fide ea allt t on on a an ny y Impairment of financial assets The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset o ot the her r re regul gula at ted ed ma mark rke et t th that at op ope er ra at tes es regu regula larly rly, rec reco og gn nis ised ed an and d allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting An Any y g ga ain ins s o or r lo loss sses es ar aris ising ing fr from om c ch ha an ng ge es s in in th the e f fa air ir va value lue of of General op open en t to o t the he pu pub blic, lic, ar are v e va alu lued ed at at t the he la last st kn know own n a av va ailab ilablle e c cllos osing ing b biid d the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, der derivat ivative ives s ar are e t ta ake ken n d diir rect ectly ly in in co compr mpreh ehen ens siv ive e in inc com ome, e, e exc xcept ept At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of the Groups assets pr pric ice.
e. If If a a se secur curiit ty y is is tr trad aded ed on on se sever vera al l a act ctiiv five ely ly tr tra ade ded d a an nd d or orga gan niis sed ed for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is for for t the he eff effe ect ctive ive port portiion on of of ca cash sh f fllow ow h he ed dg ge es, s, w wh hich ich is is re reco cogn gnise ised d are reviewed to assess whether there is any objective evidence of fina financ ncial ial mar mark kets ets, the va the valuat luation ion is is mad made e on on t the he ba bas siis s of of t the he last last kn kno ow wn n considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill iin n o ot th he er r c co om mp pr re eh he en ns siiv five e iin nc com ome.
e. impairment in the value of financial assets classified as either bid bid pr pric ice e o on n th the e ma main in mar mark ke et t o on n wh whic ich h t the he se secur curiities ties are are t tr ra ad fide ed d.. IIn n is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller available-for-sale or trade and other receivables.
Impairment losses Trade and Trade and othe other r recei receivables vables the the ca case se of of s se ecu curit ritiies es f fo or r w wh hic ich h tr trad ading ing on on an an act activ ively ely tr trad aded ed an and d cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is are recognised if an event has occurred which will have an adverse Tra Trade fide an and d oth othe er r r re ec ce eiv ivab ables les are are in initially itially r re ec co ord rded ed at at fa fair ir v va allu ue e p pllus us o or rga ganis nise ed d fi finan nanc cia iall ma mark rket et is is n no ot t si signi gnifi fican cant, t, bu but t wh which ich a ar re e bo bough ught t a an nd d conducted for the Group as a whole.
impact on the expected future cash flows of an asset and the tran trans sa ac ct tiion on co costs sts.. Th The e fa fair va ir value lue o on n a ac cq qu uiis siit tiion on is is n no orm rma allly ly t the he co cost.
st. so sold ld o on n a a se seco cond ndary ary mar mark ket et w wiith th r re eg gu ullat ated ed tra trad diin ng g amo amon ng g s se ec cu ur riity ty expected impact can be reliably estimated.
If any such indication An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
IIm mpa paiir rm me ent nt llos oss ses es w wiit th h r res espe pect ct t to o t th he e e est stiim mat ated ed iir rr rec ecov over erab ablle e fide dea aller ers s w wit ith h th the e effe effect ct t th hat at th the e p pr rice ice is is se set o t on n a a m ma ark rket et b ba as siis, s, th the e exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment a am mo ou unfit nt a ar re e r rec eco og gn niis se ed d t th hr ro ou ug gh h t th he e s st ta at te em me ent nt o of f c co om mpr preh ehen ens siiv five e va valu luat ation ion ma may y b be e ba base sed d o on n th this is s se eco cond ndary ary mar mark ke et t.. loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds Revenue iin nc com ome e w wh he en n t th he er re e iis s a ap pp pr ro opr priia at te e e evid vide en nc ce e t tha hat t t tr ra ad fide e a an nd d ot oth he er r its recoverable amount.
Revenue comprises management fees, performance fees and other Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not rec rece eiv ivab ables les are are impa impaire ired d.. Ho Howe wev five er, r, if if a a lon longerger-t ter erm m re rece ceiva ivab ble le revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used carr carriies es no no int inte ere rest, st, th the e fa fair ir va valu lue e is e is es st tiima mate ted d a as s t the he pre pres se en nt t va value lue The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is b by y v va allu ua at tio ion n s spec peciali ialis st ts s.. Th These ese tec techni hniqu ques es iin ncl clud ude e th the e ma mark rket et o of f a allll f fut utu ur re e c ca as sh h p pa ay ym me en nt ts s o or r r re ec cei eip pt ts s d diis sc co ou un nt te ed d u us siin ng g t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits ap appro proa ac ch h, t the he inc inco om me e a appr pproa oach ch or or the the co cost st a ap ppro proa ach ch f fo or r w wh hic ich h we weig ight hted ed av avera erag ge e c co ost st of of c ca ap piita tal.
l. Th The e re resu sultin lting g a ad djust justme ment nt is is the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
suff suffic icie ient nt a an nd d re reliab liablle e d da ata ta is a is av va ailab ilablle.
e. T The he us use e of of the the mar mark ke et t r re ec cog ogn niis se ed d a as s iin nt ter ere es st t e ex xp pe en ns se e o or r iin nte ter res est t iin nc com ome.
e. S Su ub bs se equ que en nt t using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For an asset that Specific revenue recognition policies are: ap appro proa ac ch h g ge ener nera allly co ly cons nsists ists of of us using ing co comp mpara arab ble le mar mark ket et t tr ra an ns sact action ions s to to in init itial ial re reco cogn gnit ition ion t the hese se as ass sets ets are are me meas asure ured d a at t amo amor rt tiis sed ed co cost st does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable o or r usi usin ng g tech techniqu niques es ba base sed d o on n ma marke rket t ob obse serv rvabl able e iinpu nputs ts, whil while e the the le less ss an any y im impa pair irm ment.
amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the Management fees u us se e o of f t th he e iin nc co om me e a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h g gen ene er ra alllly y c co on ns siis st ts s o of f t th he e n ne et t p pr re es se en nt t asset belongs.
Management fees net of rebates are accrued over the period for Cash Cash and cash and cash equivalents equivalents v va allu ue e o of f e est stiim mat ate ed d f fut utur ure e c ca as sh h f fllo ow ws s, a ad djju us st te ed d a as s d fide ee em me ed d a ap pp pr ro op pr riia at te e which the service is provided.
Where management fees are received Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured C Ca ash sh r re epr pre ese sent nts s ca cash sh at at b ban ank k a and nd iin n ha han nd d a and nd ca cas sh h e equ quiiva vallent ents s for for liq liqu uiid diit ty y, cr cred edit, it, mar mark ket et an and o d or r oth othe er r r riisk sk f fact actor ors s.. in advance these are recognised over the period of the provision of as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where com comp pr riise se sh short-t ort-te erm rm fide depo pos siits ts an and d inv inve estm stment ents s in in mon mone ey y ma mark rket et Inv Inve est stme ments nts in in o op pe en n-eend nde ed d fu fund nds s are are va value lued d o on n t th he e b ba as siis s of of t the he the asset management service.
there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, iin nst str rum umen ent ts s w wiit th h an an or oriig giina nall m mat atu ur riit ty y of of t thr hree ee m mo on nt ths hs or or lle ess.
la last st av availab ailablle NA e NAV V of of th the e u un niits ts or or sh share ares s of of s su uc ch h f fu un nd ds.
s. the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other Performance fees F Fiin na an nc ciia all lliia ab biili liti tie es s comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale fair Th The e fa fair ir va value lue of of the the d fide eriva rivativ tives es is is th the eiir r qu quot oted ed ma market rket pr pric ice e a at t Performance fees net of rebates relate to the performance of funds T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p c clla as ss siif fiie es s i it ts s f fiin na an nc ciia all l liia ab bilities into the following categories: ilities into the following categories: value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement of t the he ba ballan ance ce sh she ee et t dat date.
e. managed during the period and are recognised when the quantum non-current financial liabilities heldnon-current financial liabilities held-forfor-s sa alle e, f fiin na an nc ciia all l liia ab biilliit tiie es s d fide es siig gn na at te ed d comprehensive income.
of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee will as FVTPL and f as FVTPL and fiinancial liab financial liabilit ilities at ies at amor amort tiised cost sed cost..
He Hedg dge e acco accoun unfit tiin ng g crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance period or Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are The Group applie The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting wh s cash flow hedge accounting when the transactio en the transactions ns upon early redemption by a client.
Non-current Non-current financial li financial liabilities h abilities he eld-for-sale ld-for-sale measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the meet the meet the specified hedge accounting cr specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the lify, the following following financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows Non-current finan Non-current financial liabi cial liabilities represent interests lities represent interests held by other parties held by other parties Other revenue conditions must conditions must be met: be met: discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Such iin n f fu un nds ds i in n w wh hiic ch h t th he e G Gr roup oup r re ec co og gn niis se es s 1 100 00% % o of f t th he e iin nv five est stme men nt t i in n t th he e Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of fund as a fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These These liabilities liabilities are carried a are carried at t fair fair fo formal rmal do docu cume menta ntat tiio on n of of the the rela relati tions onship hip be betwe tween en th the e h hedg edging ing fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying value with gains value with gains or losses rec or losses recognised in the s ognised in the st tatement of atement of iin ns st tru rume ment s nt s and and he hedg dged ed iit te em m s s mu must st ex exis ist t a at t iin nce cep pt tio ion n:: This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within finance income or e comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
the the he hed dg ge ed d c ca as sh h flows mu flows must st be be h hiig gh hlly y pr prob obab able le a an nd d mu must st pre pres se en nt t financial position.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be Distribution costs F Fiin na an nc ciia all l lia iab biilliit tiie es s a at t F FV VT TP PL L an an ex expo posur sure e t to o v va ar riiat ation ions s in in ca cash sh flows flows th that at c co ou ulld d ult ultiima mate tely ly aff affe ec ct t accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third parties and F Fiin nan anci cia all l liia ab biilliit tiie es s a at t F FV VT TP PL L i in nc cllu ud fide e d fide er riiv va at tiiv five e f fiin na an nc ciia all i in ns st tr ru um me en nt ts s c co omp mpre rehe hensi nsiv five e in inco come me: : effective interest rate of the asset.
are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
a an nd d t th hiir rd d-ppar art ty y iin nt te er re es st ts s iin n c co on ns so olliid da at te ed d f fu un nd ds s.. T The hey y a ar re e c car arr riie ed d a at t f fa aiir r the the eff effe ect ctive iven ne es ss s of of t the he h he ed dge ge c ca an n be be r re elia liab bly ly m me eas asure ured d: : a an nd d Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forva valu lue e w wiit th h g ga ain ins s or or lo loss sses es r rec eco ogn gnise ised d in in t the he co cons nso ollid idat ated ed sta stat te em me ent nt Employee benefits sale financial assets are reported as fair value gains in the availableof of c com ompre preh hen ens siv ive e inc incom ome e w wiit th hin in fina financ nce e in inco come me or or e exp xpen ens se.
e. the the he hed dge ge m mu ust be h st be hiig gh hlly y eff effe ect ctiv ive, e, w wiith th eff effe ec ct tive iven ne ess ss as asse sess ssed ed Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and on on an an on ongo going ing b bas asiis.
s. Other fin Other fina ancial ncial li liabilities abilities recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
For For qu qua allify ifyiing ng ca cash sh f fllow ow he hedg dges, es, the the ch chan ang ge e in in f fa air ir va value lue of of t the he Othe Other r f fiin nan anc cia ial l lia liabilit bilitiies es inc incllud uding ing t tr rad ade e a and nd ot other her p pay ayab ablles es when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the effe effect ctive ive he hedg dgin ing g ins instru trume ment nt is is init initiia all lly y r re ecognised cognised in in other other are are su subs bseq equ uent ently ly me meas asur ured ed at at a am mort ortiis se ed d c cos ost t u us sin ing g t the he eff effect ective ive amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an Share-based payments c co omp mpre rehe hensi nsive five in inco come me a and nd is is released released to to comp compre rehe hens nsive ive inc inco om me e in in iin nt te ere rest st r ra ate te me meth thod od.. event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously the the sa same me per perio iod d dur during ing wh whic ich h t the he re refile leva vant nt f fiin na anc ncia ial l a ass sset et or or lia liabilit bility y The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent F Fa aiir r v va allu ue e of of f fiinanc nancia ial l inst instrum ruments ents affe affect cts s th the e Gr Grou oups ps r res esu ults.
that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying Fair value is defined as the Fair value is defined as the price th price that would be at would be received to sell received to sell Wh Wher ere e th the e h he ed dg ge e is is h hiigh ghly e ly effe ffect ctive ive ov overa eralll, l, an any y in ineffe effect ctive ive por portio tion n For equity-settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or an asset o an asset or r paid to transfe paid to transfer a r a liabilit liability i. e y i. e.. the the exit pri exit price in ce in of of th the e he hedg dge e is is imme immed diiat ate elly y re reco cogn gnise ised d in in co compr mpreh ehen ens siv ive e in inco come me.. to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
an orderly transac an orderly transaction between ma tion between market participants a rket participants at t the the measureme measurement nt Wh Wher ere e th the e in instr stru ume ment nt c ce ea as se es s to to be be h hiig gh hlly y eff effe ect ctiv ive e a as s a a he hedg dge, e, or or is is increase in equity, over the vesting period after adjusting for the date.
In dete In deter rmining fair value, mining fair value, the the Group uses various valuation Group uses various valuation Goodwill s so old ld, te termi rmin na at ted ed o or r ex exe er rci cised sed, hed hedge ge ac acco coun untin ting g is is di disc scon ontin tinu ue ed d.. estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value approaches approaches and and e establishes stablishes a a hierarchy hierarchy for for inputs use inputs used d in in measuring measuring Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, fair value that ma fair value that maximises the use ximises the use o of f relevant obse relevant obser rva vable inputs and ble inputs and Derec Dereco ogni gniti tion on of of financ financiia al l ass asse ets ts and and li liabiliti abilitie es s indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based on taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the minimises the use of unobservabl minimises the use of unobservable i e inputs by nputs by requiring that the mos requiring that the most t managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the Th The e G Gr ro ou up p d der ere ec cog ogn niis ses es a a f fiin nan anc ciial al as asse set t o on nlly y w wh hen en t the he co cont ntr ract actu ual al instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to observable inputs be used when observable inputs be used when a available.
Observable inputs are inp vailable.
Observable inputs are inputs uts business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When right rights s t to o th the e c ca as sh h f fllow ows s fr from om t th he e ass asset et ex exp piire, re, or or whe when n it it tr tran ansf sfers ers vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which t th hat at mar mark ket et par part tiicipant cipants w s would use ould use in pr in pricing t icing the asset he asset or liabilit or liability y assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at the the f fiina nanc ncia ial a l ass sset et a and nd su subs bsta tant ntia ially lly a all ll th the e r riis sk k a and nd rew reward ards s of of the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate developed based on market data o developed based on market data obtained from sou btained from sour rces independent ces independent year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of o ow wne ners rship hip o of f the the a as ss se et t.. T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p fide derec recogni ognise ses s a a fin fina an nc cia iall lia liabili bility ty of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
Un Unobservable observable inputs inputs are are inputs inputs that re that reflect flect the the Group Groups s fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate whe when n t the he Gr Gro oup ups s o ob bliga ligat tio ions ns are are disc disch ha arg rged, ed, ca canc ncelled elled or or movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of assumptions about the assumptions about the assumptions ot assumptions other her market p market participants would articipants would applied is based on the Group's weighted average cost of capital th they ey ex expi pire re.. comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
use in pricing the use in pricing the asset or liability, developed based on the best asset or liability, developed based on the best after making allowances for specific risks.
information available in the circums information available in the circumst tances.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets For cash-settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable to and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability reporting date.
on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and probable that future taxable profits will be available against which conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied by longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
the fair value of the awards at that date.
Movements in the liability are Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates Operating leases enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in the Dividends statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised payments have been established.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as a reduction in premises costs.
Equity shares Finance income and expense The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, and both realised and unrealised gains on held-for-sale assets and are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share investments measured at FVTPL.
capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including Finance income also includes adjustments in relation to the Groups directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
contingent consideration liabilities related to acquisitions and charges in respect of unwinding of net present value discounts.
Own shares Own shares are held by the EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises Finance expense includes the unwind of the discounts applied to own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the contingent consideration liabilities on the Groups balance sheet using Group.
In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded the effective interest method, realised losses on available-for-sale at cost and are deducted from retained earnings.
financial assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held-forsale assets and investments measured at FVTPL.
Treasury shares Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Taxation Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Segmental information Current tax Key management information, including revenues, margins, Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the tax which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
It is measured reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet business as a whole, hence the Groups management considers date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current tax also that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete includes withholding tax arising from dividends.
geographic basis and comprise one business segment being provision of investment management services.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, Company-only accounting policies in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts relate to the Company: used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: Investment in subsidiaries Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: and where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 4 4 Significant Significant accounting accounting policies policies c co ontinued ntinued Th The e a am mo ount unfit o of f d defer eferr re ed d t ta ax x p pr ro ov vide ided d is is ba base sed d o on n t the he ex expe pect cte ed d 5 Segmental information man mann ne er r of of re rea allis isat atio ion n or or se sett ttle leme ment nt of of th the e c ca arry rrying ing amo amou un nt t of of as asse set ts s For For ca cashsh-s se et tt tlle ed d awar award ds s th the e fa fair ir v va alu lue e of of t the he am amou ounts nts pa paya yab blle e t to o The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit an and liab d liabilit ilitiies, es, us using t ing tax r ax ra at te es s en enac acted ted or s or su ubst bsta ant ntiv ively e ely en nact acted ed at t at th he e employees employees iis s recogni recognised sed a as s a an n e ex xp pe en ns se e w wiit th h a a cor corr responding esponding liability liability assets is shown in the table below.
Disclosures relating to revenue are in note 6. rep repo ort rting ing dat date e.. on on t the he Gro Group ups s b ba alan lanc ce e s sh he ee et.
t. T Th he e fa fair ir va value lue is is me meas asure ured d u us sin ing g a an n Analysis of non-current assets by geography ap appro prop pr riia at te e va valua luat tion ion mo mode del, l, t ta ak kiin ng g int into o a ac cc co ou un nt t t th he e e es st tiim ma ate ted d Defe Deferre rred d ta tax x a as ss se ets are re ts are reco cogn gnis ised on ed only ly to to t th he e e ex xtent th tent that it is at it is 2014 2013 nu numb mber er o of f aw awar ards ds t th hat at ar are e e ex xp pe ec cte ted d to to v five est st an and d the the t te er rm ms s an and d pro proba bab ble le th that at fu fut ture ure t tax axab ablle e p pr rof ofit its s w wiill ll b be e av ava aiila lab blle e a aga gaiinst nst wh whic ich h m m co cond ndit ition ions s u up po on n wh whic ich t h the he instr instru ume ments nts w we er re e gr gra an nte ted.
d. Du Durin ring g th the e the the as asset sets s c ca an n b be e ut utilis ilise ed.
d. Def Defe err rred ed t tax ax as asset sets s a ar re e rev reviiew ewed ed at at five vest stin ing g p pe er riio od d, t the he lia liab bility ility r re ec co og gn nis ised ed r re ep pr re es se en nts ts the the po port rtio ion n of of th the e United Kingdom 14.3 16.9 ea each ch r re ep po ort rting ing d da ate te an and d ar are e r re ed du uc ce ed d to t to th he e e ex xte tent nt that that it it is is n no o five vest stiin ng g p per eriio od d t th hat at h has as ex exp piir re ed d a at t t the he ba ballan ance ce sh she ee et t dat date e m mu ullt tiip plliied ed by by United States 70.1 82.6 lo lon nger ger pr prob obab able t le th hat t at the he re relate lated ta d tax b x be en ne ef fiit w t will b ill be e r re ea allis ised.
the the f fa air ir v va allu ue e o of f t the he awa awar rd ds s at at t th ha at t dat date e. M. Mo ovem veme ents nts in in th the e lia liab bility ility are are Other 0.5 0.9 Defe Deferre rred d ta tax x is is mea meas su ure red d at at th the e tax tax r ra at te es s t th hat ar at are e ex expe pecte cted d t to o b be e rec reco og gn niis sed ed in in t th he e st state atem me en nt t of of c co om mp pre rehe hens nsive ive in incom come e.. a ap pp plliie ed d t to o t te em mp po or ra ar ry y d diif ff fe er re en nc ce es s w wh he en n t th he ey y r re ev five er rs se e, u us siin ng g t ta ax x r ra at te es s 6 Revenue O Op pe er rat ating ing le leases ases en enact acted ed or or su subst bstant antive ivelly y e ena nacte cted d at at th the e b ba ala lanc nce e s sh heet eet dat date.
e. Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are P Pa ay ym me en nt ts s p pa ay ya ab blle e u und nder er o op pe er ra at tiin ng g lle ea as ses es a ar re e r rec eco og gn niis se ed d iin n t th he e recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any D Diiv viide dends nds s st ta at te em me en nt t o of f c co om mp pr reh ehen ens siiv five e iin nc com ome e o on n a a s st tr ra aiig gh ht t--lliin ne e b ba as siis s o ov five er r single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2012 13: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year Di Divid vidend ends s a ar re e rec reco og gn nis ised ed wh when en sh sha ar re ehol holde ders rs ri rights ghts to to rec rece eiiv five e t the he t ter erm m of of t th he e llea ease.
Le Leas ase e iin nce cent ntiiv ves r es rec ece eiiv ved ed a ar re e r re eco cog gn niis sed ed respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
pa paym yment ents s h hav ave e be been en est esta abl bliish she ed d.. on on a a str stra aig ightht-llin ine e ba basis sis o ov ver er th the e le leas ase ter e term m a and nd ar are e rec record orde ed d a as s a a re redu duct ctio ion n in in pr prem emis ises es co cost sts.
s. Analysis of revenue by geography Eq Equity uity shares shares 2014 2013 F Fiina finance nce inc inco ome me an and d ex expens pense e Th The e C Com omp pan any ys s or ord diinar nary y s sha har re es s o of f 0.
0.0 01 1 p pen enc ce e e eac ach ar h are e c cllas assi sif fiie ed d m m as as eq equ uiity ty instr instru ume ments.
Or Ord diin na ar ry y sh share ares s is issu sued ed by by the the C Co om mp pa an ny y F Fiin nan ance ce iinc ncom ome e iin nc cllu ud fide es s iin nt te er re es st t r re ec ce eiiv va ab blle e o on n t the he G Gr ro ou up ps s c ca as sh h a an nd d United Kingdom earned revenue 266.2 320.1 are are r rec ecor orde ded d at at t the he f fa air ir v va allu ue e of of t the he co cons nsider iderat ation ion r rec ece eiv ived ed or or t th he e c ca as sh h e equi quival valen ents, ts, re reali alis sed ed ga gains ins on on av avail aila abl ble e--fo for-s r-sa ale le fi fina nanci ncia all as asse sets ts United States earned revenue 22.2 27.9 mar mark ket et pr pric ice e a at t t the he da day y of of iss issue.
Dir Dire ect ct iss issue ue co cost sts, s, n ne et t of of ta tax, x, an and d b bo oth th re rea allis ised ed an and u d un nre rea allis ised ed g ga ains ins o on n h he elld-f d-fo or-s r-sa ale le a as ss se et ts s a and nd are are fide dedu duct cted ed f fr ro om m eq equ uiit ty y thr thro oug ugh s h shar hare e p pr rem emium ium.. Wh When en sh shar are e Other revenue 5.7 7.6 in inv five est stme ments nts me meas asure ured d at at F FV VT TP PL.
L. ca capita pital l is r is re epur purch chas ased, t ed, the he am amou oun nt t of c of con ons sid ider erat atio ion p n paid, aid, in inc cllu ud diin ng g Fin Fina an nc ce e inc inco om me e also also inc incllud udes es ad adjust justme ments nts in in r re elat latiio on n t to o th the e Gr Grou oup ps s dire direct ctly ly attr attribut ibuta ab ble le c co osts, sts, is is re reco cogn gnise ised d a as s a a ch chan ange ge in in e eq qu uiit ty y.. 7 Foreign exchange co cont ntin inge gent nt co cons nsider iderat atio ion n lia liab bilitie ilities s re relat lated ed t to o ac acqu quis isit ition ions s a and nd ch charg arge es s The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
in in re resp spect ect of of un unwind winding ing of net of net pr pres esent ent va value lue d diis sc co ou un nts.
Ow Own n sh shar are es s Average rate Average rate Own Own s sh hare ares s ar are e he held ld b by y th the e EB EBT.
T. Th The e h ho olld diing ng of of t th he e E EB BT T c co om mp pr riis se es s Fin Finan ance ce ex expe pens nse e in inc cllu ud des es t the he un unwind wind of of t the he d diis sc cou ounts nts ap app pllie ied d t to o Closing rate Closing rate as year ended year ended own own s shar hares es t tha hat t ha have five not not five vest sted ed un unco cond ndit ition iona ally lly t to o em emp plloy oyee ees s of of t the he co cont ntin inge gent nt co cons nsider iderat atio ion n lia liab bilitie ilities s on on t the he Gro Group ups s ba bala lan nce ce sh sheet eet us usin ing g as at 30 June at 30 June 30 June 30 June Gr Grou oup.
p. In In bo both th t th he e Gro Group up an and d Co Compa mpan ny, y, ow own n s sha har res es are are re recor corde ded d 2014 2013 2014 2013 the the eff effe ect ctive ive inte interest rest met meth hod, od, r re ea allis ise ed d los loss se es s on on av availab ailablle-fo e-for-s r-sa ale le at at c co ost st an and d a ar re e d fide ed du uct cte ed d fro from m re ret ta ain ined ed ear earn nin ings.
fina financ ncial ial as asse sets ts a and nd bot both h r rea eallis ise ed d an and d u unre nrea allis ised ed lo loss sses es on on he held-fo ld-for r-- US dollar 1.7106 1.5213 1.6281 1.5690 sa sale le as asse sets ts an and d inv invest estme ment nts s me mea asur sured ed at at FV FVT TP PL.
L. Brazilian real 3.7854 3.3907 3.7250 3.2216 Tr Treasury easury s sh har ares es Indonesian rupiah 20,219 15,258 18,618 15,183 Tre Trea as su ur ry y s sh har ares es are are r re ec co ogn gnise ised d in in eq equ uiity ty an and d ar are e mea meas su ure red d at co at cos st t.. Taxati Taxation on Co Cons nsid iderat eration ion r re ece ceiv ive ed d for th for the e s sa alle e of su of such sh ch shar ares is a es is alls so o re rec co og gn niis se ed d Ta Tax x e ex xp pe en ns se e for for the the ye year ar c co om mp pr riis se es s curr curre en nt t a and nd d fide efer ferr re ed d ta tax.
x. T Tax is ax is Foreign exchange differences arose as shown below.
in in e eq qu uiit ty y, w, wiit th h a an ny d y diiff ffer eren ence ce bet betwee ween n t the he pr proc ocee eeds fr ds from t om th he s e sa ale le re reco cogni gnise sed d in in the the co cons nsolid olida at te ed d s st ta at temen ement t of of co comp mpreh rehens ensiv ive e in income come 2014 2013 an and d or orig igin ina all c cost ost be being ing t tak aken en to to r re eta tain ined ed ear earn nin ing gs.
s. ex exce cept pt t to o th the e e ex xt tent ent t th ha at t it it re relate lates s to to ite item ms r s re ec co og gn niise sed d d diir re ect ctly ly in in m m equi equity, in ty, in which which ca case se iit t iis s rec reco og gn nis ised ed in in e equi quity ty.. S Se egmen gmenta tall inf informa ormat tio ion n Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 3.5 1.2 Current tax Current tax K Ke ey y ma mana nage geme ment nt in info formation rmation, in incl cludi uding ng re reve venue nues s, ma margi rgin ns s, Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 30.1 5.9 Cu Curre rrent t nt tax ax co com mpr priis ses es t the he ex exp pec ect ted ed t tax ax pa paya yab blle e o or r rec rece eiv ivab able o le on t n the he iinve nves st tmen ment t pe perfo rfor rma manc nce e, di dis st tribu ributi tion on co cos st ts s and and A AuM uM flo flow ws s, Total foreign exchange losses gains 26.6 4.7 tax taxa able i ble in ncome come or or los loss s for for the the y ye ea ar r, an and d a an ny y ad adjust justme ment nt to to th the e ta tax x wh whic ich h is is r re ele leva vant nt to to th the e o op perat eratiion on of of th the e Gr Grou oup, p, is is r rep eport orted ed t to o a and nd pa paya yab blle e or re or rec ce eiv ivab able in r le in re es sp pe ec ct o t of f pre prev vio ious us ye year ars.
s. It is It is me meas asur ured ed r re ev viie ew we ed d by by t th he e B Bo oa ar rd d o on n t th he e b ba as siis s o of f t th he e i in nv ves est tm me en nt t m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t 8 Finance income and expense us using ing t tax ax r rat ates es e ena nacte cted d o or r s sub ubsta stant ntiv ive elly y en enact acted ed a at t the the b ba alan lance ce s she heet et b bu us siin fines ess a s as a s a w who holle e, h hen ence ce t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t c con ons siid fide er rs s 2014 2013 dat date e in in t the he c co ou un nt tr ries ies w wh here ere t th he Grou e Group p o op pe erat rate es.
s. C Cu urre rrent nt t tax ax a alls so o t th ha at t th the e G Gr ro ou up ps s s se er rv viic ces es a an nd d iit ts s o op pe er ra at tiio on ns s a ar re e n not ot r ru un n o on n a a d diis scr cret ete e m m iin nc cllu ud fide es s w wiit th hh ho olld diin ng g t ta ax x a ar riis siin ng g f fr ro om m d diiv viid fide en nd ds s.. g geo eog gr rap aphi hic c ba basi sis s a and nd co comp mpri rise se on one e b busi usine ness ss se segm gmen ent t bei being ng Finance income pro prov vis ision ion of of in inve vestm stment ent ma mana nage geme ment nt s se erv rvice ices s..
Deferred Deferred ta tax x Interest income 2.7 3.2 fide Deferred ferred tax tax iis s re reco cogni gnise sed d u us sin ing g th the e b ba ala lanc nce e s sheet heet li liabili ability ty me metho thod d, C Co om mp pa an ny y- -o on nlly y a ac cc co ounting policies unting policies Net gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2.5 2.1 in in re resp spect ect of of t te em mpor porary ary d diiff ffer eren ence ces s b be etw twee een n th the e c ca arry rrying ing am amou ount nts s of of In In ad addi ditio tion n to to th the e a abo bove five ac acco coun unti ting ng pol polici icies es, th the e foll followi owing ng sp speci ecif fiically cally Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.0 7.4 as asset sets s a and nd liab liabilit ilitiie es s f for or f fiin nan anc cia ial r l rep eport ortin ing g pur purpo pos se es s a and nd t the he am amou oun nt ts s r re ellat ate e t to o t th he e C Co om mpa pan ny: y: Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 3.1 us used ed f fo or r t ta ax xa at tiio on n pur purpo pose ses.
s. T Th he e f fo ollow llowiing ng d diiff ffere eren nc ce es s ar are e n no ot t pro prov vid ided for: ed for: Release of contingent consideration 0.5 10.8 Investm Investment ent in in s subs ubsidia idiar riies es IIn nv ves est tm me en nt ts s b by y t th he e C Com omp pa any ny iin n s sub ubs siid diia ar riie es s a ar re e s st ta at te ed d a at t c co os st t lle es ss, s, Total finance income 8.7 26.6 go good odw wiill ll no not t d fide ed du uct ctib ible le f fo or r t tax ax pu purpo rpos se es s: : a and nd whe wher re e ap appr propr opriat iate e, pr prov ovis isio ions ns f fo or r impa impairme irment.
Finance expense diffe differe renc nces es r re elat latiing ng t to o in inve vestm stme ent nts in s in s su ubs bsid idiar iariie es s t to o th the e e ex xt tent ent Net unrealised losses on seed capital investments measured at fair value 6.2 that that th they ey w will ill pro prob ba ab bly ly not not r re ev five er rs se in t e in the he f fo or re es se ee ea able ble f fu utu ture.
Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 0.9 Total finance expense 6.2 0.9 Net finance income 2.5 25.7 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Finance income and expense continued Included within finance income is 0.5 million FY2012 13: 10.8 million in relation to the downward adjustment of the Groups contingent consideration liabilities.
9 Personnel expenses Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 19.6 20.0 Performance-related cash bonuses 15.0 25.9 Share-based payments 23.2 28.4 Social security costs 5.1 4.2 Pension costs 1.2 1.2 Other costs 2.0 2.6 Total personnel expenses 66.1 82.3 Personnel expenses in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014 include an amount of 0.6 million FY2012 13: 0.6 million that has been waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount paid to charity in the financial year to 30 June 2014.
Number of employees The number of employees of the Group including Directors during the reporting year, all categorised as investment management personnel, was as follows: Average for Average for the year the year ended ended At At 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 Number Number Number Number Total employees 290 280 291 291 Directors remuneration Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 69.
There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2012 13: two.
10 Share-based payments The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: 2014 2013 m m Group Omnibus Plan 19.2 24.8 Ashmore Equities Investment Management operating agreement 0.3 0.3 Phantom Bonus Plan 0.1 Total related to compensation awards 19.6 25.1 Related to acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. 3.6 3.3 Total share-based payments expense 23.2 28.4 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 23.8 million FY2012 13: 29.0 million.
88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 8 8 Fi Fina finance nce inc inco ome me an and d ex expens pense e co conti ntin nu ued ed The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme Incl Included uded w wiithin thin f fiinance finance iin nco come me is 0. is 0.5 milli 5 million FY201 on FY2012 2 1 13 3:: 1 10 0.. 8 8 mi mill lliio on n iin n r re ella at tiio on n t to o t th he e dow down nw wa ard rd adjust adjustment ment of of the the G Group roups s c co ont ntin inge gent nt The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of ten years and vest after co cons nsider iderat atiio on n lia liabilit bilitiies.
five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted for on an equity-settled basis.
No further options will be issued under the Option Scheme.
All outstanding options are fully vested.
9 9 P Pers erson onnel nel e exp xpens enses es Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: Pe Pers rson onne nel l e ex xpe pen nse ses s d dur uriin ng g t the he y year ear co compr mpriise sed d t th he e fo follow llowiin ng: g: Weighted Weighted 2014 2014 2013 2013 2014 average 2013 average m m m m Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options pence options pence Group and Company Wa Wage ges s a and nd sa salar lariies es 19.
20.0 0 P Pe erfo rforman rmance ce-relarelat ted ed ca cash sh bon bonuse uses s 15.
28.4 4 Exercised 1,394,471 32.51 So Soc ciia all se secur curiit ty y c cost osts s 5.1 5.1 4.2 4.2 Forfeited Pe Pens nsion co ion cost sts s 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Options outstanding at year end 503,750 35.11 503,750 35.11 Ot Oth he er r co cos st ts s 2.0 2.0 2.6 2.6 Options exercisable 503,750 35.11 503,750 35.11 To Tota tal l pe pers rsonn onne ell e ex xp pe ens nses es 66.
82.3 3 No share options were exercised during the year.
The weighted average share price on the date options were exercised during the prior year was 363.48p.
P Pe ersonnel rsonnel expenses expenses in in r re espect spect of of the the year year ended ended 30 30 June June 2014 2014 incl include ude an an amount amount of of 0.6 0.6 m mi illl lion ion F FY Y2 20 01 12 2 1 13 3:: 0 0.. 6 6 mil millliio on n t th ha at t h ha as s be been en wa waiv ived ed by by Dir Dire ect ctors ors an and d e em mp plloy oye ee es s in in e ea ar rllier ier per perio iods ds w wiit th h a an n eq equ uiiv va ale lent nt a am mo ount unfit pa paid id to to ch char arity ity in in t th he e f fiin na an nc cia ial l y ye ear ar t to o 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 201 2014 4..
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options At 30 June At 30 June N Nu umber mber of of employ employees ees Group and Company 2014 2013 T Th he e n num umbe ber r o of f e em mp pllo oye yee es s o of f t th he e G Gr ro ou up p iin nc clu lud diin ng g D Diir rec ect to or rs s d dur uriin ng g t th he e r re ep po or rt tiin ng g y ye ea ar r, a allll c cat ateg egor oriis se ed d a as s iin nv five es st tm me en nt t m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t pers perso on nnel nel, Outstanding options 503,750 503,750 was was as as f fo ollo llow ws: s: Weighted average exercise price 35.11p 35.11p Ave Aver rage fo age for r Aver Average age for for Weighted average remaining contracted life years 1.63 2.63 the yea the year r the the year year ended ended e en nd fide ed d A At t At At 30 June 201 30 June 2014 4 30 30 June June 2013 2013 30 June 201 30 June 2014 4 30 30 June June 2013 2013 Range of exercise prices for share options outstanding at the end of the year Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Group and Company 2014 2013 To Tota tal l e em mp plloy oyees ees 2 290 90 2 280 80 2 291 91 2 291 91 Exercise periods Number Number Exercise price per share p 10.00 20.00 9 December 2010 8 December 2015 328,750 328,750 D Diir recto ector rs s r remu emune nerat ratiion on 20.00 30.00 27 April 2011 26 April 2016 125,000 125,000 Dis Disc cllo os su ur re es s of of Direct Directo or rs s re remu mune ner ra at tiio on n d du ur riin ng g t the he ye year ar a as s re req qu uire ired d by by t the he C Co om mp pa an nie ies s A Ac ct t 2 20 006 06 are are in inclu clud fide ed d in in t the he R Re emu muner nerat atio ion n r report eport 170.00 180.00 8 December 2011 7 December 2016 50,000 50,000 o on n p pa ag ge es s 5 56 6 t to o 6 69.
503,750 503,750 Th There ere ar are e ret retiire reme ment nt b be en ne ef fiit ts s a ac cc cru ruing ing t to o tw two o Dir Dire ect ctors ors u un nd fide er r a a d fide ef fiin ned ed co contr ntriibut bution ion sc sche heme me F FY Y2 201 012 1 2 13 3: : tw two.
There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2014 FY2012 13: none.
10 10 Sha Shar re-b e-ba ase sed d pa pay ym men ent ts s Th The e to tota tal l s sh ha ar ree-b ba as sed ed pa paym yment ents-r s-re elat lated ed co cost st r re ec co ogn gnise ised d b by y th the Gr e Grou oup in p in t the he st state atem me en nt t of of co comp mpre rehe hens nsive ive inc inco om me e is is s show hown n be below: low: The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Gr Grou oup p options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
These elements can be used singly or in Omn Omniibu bus s P Pllan an 19.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards As Ashm hmor ore e E Eq qu uiitie ties s Inv Inve estm stment ent Ma Mana nage geme ment nt o op pe era rating ting agr agre eeme emen nt t 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan P Ph ha an ntom tom Bo Bonus nus Pl Plan an 0.1 0.1 are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
T To ot tal al r rela elat ted ed to to co comp mpen ensa sati tion on awa awar rds ds 19.
25.1 1 The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Re Relat lated ed t to o a ac cq qu uiisitio sition n of of A As sh hm mor ore e E Eq qu uiit tiies es IIn nv five est stme ment nt M Ma an na ag ge em ment ent U US S L. L. L. L. C. C. 3.6 3.6 3.3 3.3 Total share-based payments expense 23.2 28.4 Total share-based payments expense 23.2 28.4 Total expense by year awards were granted Group and Company 2014 2013 The The total total expens expense e recognised recognised f fo or r the the year year iin n respec respect t of equi of equit ty y-settsettlled shareed share-based based payment payment t tr ransactions ansactions was was 23.8 23.8 million million F FY20 Y201 12 2 13: 13: m m Year of grant 29.0 29.0 million.
2008 1.0 2009 0.9 1.0 2010 1.1 1.8 2011 2.9 3.3 2012 3.2 1.8 2013 0.3 15.9 2014 11.4 19.2 24.8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: i Equity-settled awards 2014 2013 Number of 2014 Number of 2013 shares Weighted shares Weighted subject to average subject to average awards share price awards share price Group and Company Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 18,070,806 2.98 15,877,630 2.90 Granted 5,316,273 3.83 4,836,236 3.29 Vested 4,288,564 3.88 2,333,276 3.72 Forfeited 1,102,253 3.52 309,784 3.45 Awards outstanding at year end 17,996,262 3.50 18,070,806 2.98 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 Granted 1,918,121 3.83 1,430,420 3.29 Vested 1,388,760 3.77 1,203,234 3.80 Forfeited 3,645 3.25 Awards outstanding at year end 5,659,814 3.55 5,134,098 3.10 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 Granted 1,918,121 3.83 1,430,420 3.29 Vested 941,429 3.91 1,162,885 3.81 Forfeited 450,976 3.47 40,349 2.95 Awards outstanding at year end 5,659,814 3.55 5,134,098 3.10 Total 29,315,890 3.52 28,339,002 3.02 ii Cash-settled awards 2014 2013 Number of 2014 Number of 2013 shares Weighted shares Weighted subject to average subject to average Group and Company awards share price awards share price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 2,205,318 3.49 1,806,068 3.54 Granted 70,423 3.83 409,405 3.29 Vested 11,491 3.24 1,985 3.31 Forfeited 63,960 3.25 8,170 3.94 Awards outstanding at year end 2,200,290 3.50 2,205,318 3.49 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Granted 35,211 3.83 296,120 3.29 Vested 51,634 3.24 Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 1,579,772 3.50 1,596,195 3.50 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Granted 35,211 3.83 296,120 3.29 Vested 8,618 3.24 Forfeited 43,016 3.24 Awards outstanding at year end 1,579,772 3.50 1,596,195 3.50 Total 5,359,834 3.50 5,397,708 3.50 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 10 10 Sha Shar re-b e-ba ase sed d pa pay ym men ent ts s co cont ntinu inue ed d iii Total awards Aw Award ards s o ou ut ts sta tand ndin ing g un under der th the e O Om mn niib bu us s P Pllan an w we er re e a as s fo follows: llows: 2014 2013 Number of 2014 Number of 2013 i i Equity-se Equity-set tt tlled ed awar awards ds shares Weighted shares Weighted subject to average subject to average 2014 2014 2013 2013 Group and Company awards share price awards share price Number Number of of 2014 2014 Number of Number of 2013 2013 shares shares Wei Weight ghted ed sha shar res es Weigh Weighted ted Restricted share awards subj subjec ect t t to o average average subje subjec ctt to to a av five er ra ag ge e awards awards share price share price aw award ards s sha sharre p e prric ice e At the beginning of the year 20,276,124 3.04 17,683,698 2.96 G Gr ro oup up and and C Co om mp pan any y Granted 5,386,696 3.83 5,245,641 3.29 R Re es st tr riic ct te ed d s sha har re e a aw wa ar rd ds s Vested 4,300,055 3.88 2,335,261 2.72 A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 18, 18,07 070,8 0,806 06 2.
3.10 10 Matching share awards Mat Matc chin hing g sh shar are e awa awar rd ds s At the beginning of the year 6,730,293 3.19 6,206,987 3.12 A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 5,1 5,134, 34,09 098 8 3.
3.02 02 The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the ii ii Cas Cash h-settsettlled ed a aw wa ar rds ds five business days prior to grant.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread over Number Number of of 2014 2014 Number of Number of 2013 2013 shares shares Wei Weight ghted ed sha shar res es Weigh Weighted ted a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their release date when the grantee becomes unconditionally subj subjec ect t t to o average average subje subjec ctt to to a av five er ra ag ge e entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the release date.
G Gr ro oup up and and C Co om mp pan any y awards awards share price share price aw award ards s sha sharre p e prric ice e The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables Re Restri strict cted ed sh shar are e aw awar ard ds s on the consolidated balance sheet is 7.1 million 30 June 2013: 12.0 million of which nil 30 June 2013: nil relates to vested awards.
3.29 29 The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP V five es st te ed d 11, 11,49 491 1 3.
3.31 31 The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value Forf Forfe eit ited ed 63, 63,96 960 0 3.
3.94 94 options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under A Aw wa ar rd ds s o ou ut ts st ta an nd diin ng g a at t y ye ea ar r e en nd d 2,2 2,200, 00,29 290 0 3.
B Bo on nu us s s sh ha ar re e a aw wa ar rd ds s A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 1,5 1,596, 96,19 195 5 3.
3.24 24 Forf Forfe eit ited ed A Aw wa ar rd ds s o ou ut ts st ta an nd diin ng g a at t y ye ea ar r e en nd d 1,5 1,579, 79,77 772 2 3.
3.50 50 Mat Matc chin hing g sh shar are e awa awar rd ds s A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 1,5 1,596, 96,19 195 5 3.
3.50 50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Other arrangements Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. AEIM operating agreement Under the terms of AEIMs operating agreement, certain employees are eligible to receive part of their variable compensation in the form of partnership units.
These awards, which typically vest five years from the date of grant depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of awards granted is based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive units in the subsidiary.
Share awards outstanding at year end under the operating arrangement were as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares average share shares average subject to price subject to share price Group awards US dollars awards US dollars At the beginning of the year 54,352 $32.05 Granted 31,187 $31.66 54,352 $32.05 Vested Forfeited 18,250 $32.00 Awards outstanding at year end 67,289 $31.88 54,352 $32.05 Phantom Bonus Plan In August 2013, the Phantom Bonus Plan, a cash-settled share-based payment plan, was set up to provide long-term incentives to certain employees.
The units typically vest after five years from date of grant, contingent upon continued employment.
Units awarded under the plan carry no voting rights.
The fair value of units granted under the plan is determined with reference to the equity valuation of the underlying employing entity.
Awards outstanding at year end under the Phantom Bonus Plan were as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares average share shares average subject to price subject to share price awards US dollars awards US dollars Group At the beginning of the year 13,229 $32.02 Granted 12,609 $31.66 13,229 $32.02 Vested Lapsed 3,797 $31.93 Awards outstanding at year end 22,041 $31.85 13,229 $32.02 As at 30 June 2014, the related liability reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated and Company balance sheet is 0.2 million of which nil relates to vested awards FY2012 13: 0.1 million of which nil relates to vested awards.
Prior period acquisition of AEIM At the time of the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011, employees and management held unvested shares representing 17.9% of its partnership shares.
These awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled sharebased payments in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment which results in an annual charge to the statement of comprehensive income during the period of vesting.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive shares in AEIM which may be exchanged for shares in Ashmore Group plc or cash at the discretion of the Group.
The grant date fair value was based on the intrinsic value proportionate with the value implied from the purchase consideration paid by the Group to acquire AEIM.
During the year, no awards were granted FY2012 13: none, none vested FY2012 13: 5,463 awards vested and 11,500 awards were forfeited FY2012 13: 71,587 awards were forfeited.
305,900 awards 30 June 2013: 317,400 awards are outstanding as at the year end.
92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 10 10 Sha Shar re-b e-ba ase sed d pa pay ym men ent ts s co cont ntinu inue ed d 11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: Ot Othe her r a arra rrangem ngements ents Ashmore Equiti Ashmore Equities Investmen es Investment t M Ma anagement nagement US L US L.. L. C. AEIM L. C. AEIM operating operating ag agreement reement 2014 2013 Und Unde er r t the he t te erm rms s of of A AE EIIMs Ms op oper era at ting ing agr agre eeme emen nt, t, cert certa aiin n em emp pllo oy ye ee es s are are e ellig igible ible t to o rec rece eiv ive e p pa art rt of of th their eir v va ar riia ab ble le co comp mpen ensat sation ion in in the the f fo orm rm m m o of f pa partn rtne er rs sh hip ip uni units ts.. Th Thes ese e a aw wa ar rds ds, whic which h ty typic pica ally lly v five es st t fi five five ye yea ar rs s fro from m th the e d da ate te o of f gra gran nt t d depe ependi nding ng on on the the sa sati tis sf fac acti tion on o of f se ser rvic vice e c cond onditi itions ons, Travel 4.9 6.0 a ar re e a ac cc co oun unfit te ed d f fo or r a as s e eq qu uiity ty--se set tt tlle ed d s sha har re e-bbas ase ed d p pa ay ym me ent nts.
s. T Th he e f fa aiir r v va allu ue e o of f a aw war ard ds s g gr ra ant nte ed d iis s b ba as se ed d o on n t th he e e equ quiit ty y v val alu ua at tiio on n o of f t the he su sub bsid sidia iary ry Professional fees 4.3 2.9 at at th the e d da at te e of of gr gra an nt.
t. Up Upon on five vest sting, ing, the the ho holde lder rs s are are ent entit itled led t to o r re ec ce eiv ive e u un niits ts in in th the e s su ubs bsidiar idiary y.. Information technology and communications 5.6 5.2 Sh Shar are e aw awar ards ds ou outsta tstand nding ing at at ye year ar en end d u und nder er t the he o oper perat atin ing g a arra rrang nge em me ent nt w were ere as as f fo ollo llow ws: s: Deferred acquisition costs note 17 0.1 1.7 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 2013 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 3.8 5.1 Number Number of of Wei Weight ghted ed Number of Number of Weighted Weighted Impairment of intangible assets note 15 11.0 shares shares average average share share sha shar res es a av five er ra ag ge e subj subjec ect t t to o pr pric ice e subje subjec ctt to to sha sharre e p prric ice e Operating leases 3.2 3.5 Gr Grou oup p awards awards US dol US dollar lars s aw award ards s U US S d do olllla arrs s Premises-related costs 1.4 1.2 A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 54, 54,35 352 2 $3 $32.0 2.05 5 Insurance 0.9 0.9 G Gr ra an nted ted 31, 31,18 187 7 $3 $31.6 1.66 6 54, 54,35 352 2 $ $3 32 2.0.
05 5 31.8 44.9 Phantom Phantom Bonu Bonus Plan s Plan Auditors remuneration In In A Au ug gu us st t 2 20 01 13 3, the P, the Ph ha an nto tom m Bo Bonu nus s P Pllan, an, a a c ca as sh h--s sett ettlled sh ed shar are-b e-ba as sed ed pa paym yment ent p plla an n, was was set set u up p to to p pr rov ovide ide lon long g-tterm erm in inc cent entive ives s to to c cer ert tai ain n 2014 2013 em employ ploye ees.
Th The e un unit its s ty typ piic ca allly ly v five est st aft after er f fiive five ye year ars s fro from m d dat ate e of of gr grant, ant, co cont ntin ing ge ent nt u upo pon n c cont ontin inue ued d e em mp pllo oym ymen ent t.. Un Unit its s aw awar arde ded d u un nde der r th the e pl plan an m m carr carry y n no o v vo ot tiing ng r riight ghts.
s. T The he fa fair ir va value lue of of u un niits ts gr grant anted ed un unde der r th the e p plla an n is is d fide et te erm rmine ined d wit with h r re efe fere renc nce e t to o th the e e eq qu uity ity va valu luat atio ion n of of the the un underly derlying ing Fees for statutory audit services: e em mp pllo oy yiin ng g e en nt tiity ty.. Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Aw Award ards s o out utst sta and ndin ing g a at t y year ear en end d u und nder er t the he Ph Pha anto ntom m B Bon onus us P Pllan an w wer ere e as as f fo ollo llow ws: s: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 2013 Number Number of of Wei Weight ghted ed Number of Number of Weighted Weighted shares shares average average share share sha shar res es a av five er ra ag ge e Fees for non-audit services: subj subjec ect t t to o pr pric ice e subje subjec ctt to to sha sharre e p prric ice e awards awards US dol US dollar lars s aw award ards s U US S d do olllla arrs s Gr Grou oup p Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.2 0.3 A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 13, 13,22 229 9 $3 $32.0 2.02 2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.3 G Gr ra an nted ted 12, 12,60 609 9 $3 $31.6 1.66 6 13, 13,22 229 9 $ $3 32 2.0.
02 2 As As at at 3 30 0 Ju June ne 20 2014, 14, t the he r re ela late ted d lia liabilit bility y r rep eport orted ed w wiith thin in tr tra ade fide an and d ot other her pa paya yab blle es s o on n t the he co cons nso ollid idate ated d an and d C Com ompa pan ny y b ba ala lanc nce e s sh hee eet t is is 0.
0.2 2 milli million on of of w wh hich ni ich nill rel rela ates t tes to o vest vested ed aw awards FY2012 13: 0. ards FY2012 13: 0.1 1 mill millio ion n of which of which ni nill relate relates s to to vest vested ed aw awards.
P Pr riio or r p pe er riio od d a ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on n o of f AE AEIM IM At At t the he t tiime of me of t th he e a ac cq qu uiis siit tiion on of of A AE EIM IM in in M May ay 20 2011, 11, em emplo ploy ye ee es s a and nd m ma ana nage geme ment nt he held ld u un nv five est ste ed d s sh har ares es r re epre pres se en nt tiing ng 17.
17.9% 9% of it of its par s part tn ne er rs sh hiip p s sh ha ar re es.
s. T The hes se e a aw wa ar rd ds s, w wh hiic ch h v five es st t a af ft ter er f fiiv five e y ye ea ar rs s d dep epen end diin ng g o on t n th he e s sa at tiis sf fa ac ct tiio on n o of f s se er rv viic ce e c con ond diit tiio ons ns, a ar re e a ac cc co ou un nt te ed d f fo or r a as s e eq qu uiit tyy-s set ett tlle ed d s sha har reeba base sed d p pa ay ym me en nts ts in in ac acco cord rdan ance ce w wiit th h IF IFR RS S 2 2 S Shar haree-ba base sed d p pay aym me ent nt w wh hiic ch h r res esu ult lts s iin n a an n a an nn nu ua all c cha har rg ge e t to o t th he e s st ta at te em me en nt t o of f c com ompr preh ehen ens siiv five e iin nc com ome e d du ur riin ng g t th he e p per eriio od d o of f v ves est tiin ng g.. U Up po on n v five es st tiin ng g, t th he e h ho olld fide er rs s a ar re e e ent ntiit tlle ed d t to o r re ec ce eiiv five e s sh ha ar re es s i in n A AE EIIM w M wh hiic ch h m ma ay y b be e e exc xcha hang nge ed d f for or s sh ha ar re es s in in As Ashm hmor ore e Gr Grou oup p p pllc c o or r ca cas sh h at at t the he d diis scr cret etiio on n of t of th he e Gro Group.
T The he gra grant nt dat date e fa fair ir va valu lue e w was as ba base sed d o on n th the e in intr trin ins siic c va valu lue e pro propo por rt tiio on nate ate with with t the he va valu lue e imp implied lied from from t th he e p purc urcha hase se co cons nsider iderat atio ion n pa paid b id by y th the e Gr Grou oup p to to ac acqu quir ire e A AE EIIM M.. Dur Duriin ng g t the he ye year, ar, no no awa awar rd ds s w we ere re gra gran nt ted ed F FY Y2 201 012 2 13: 13: no none, ne, no none five ne veste sted d F FY Y2 20 012 12 13: 13: 5,4 5,463 63 aw award ards s v five est sted ed an and d 1 11 1, 5 50 00 0 a aw war ards ds wer were e f fo orf rfei eite ted d F FY2 Y2012 012 13 13:: 71 71,58, 587 7 a aw wards ards we were re fo forfei rfeited ted.. 30 305 5, 90 900 0 a aw wards ards 30 30 Ju June ne 20 2013 13: : 317 317,40, 400 0 a aw wards ards a ar re e ou outs tsta tandi nding ng a as s at at th the e y ye ea ar r e en nd d.. Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Taxation Analysis of tax charge for the year 2014 2013 m m Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the year 30.7 56.7 Overseas corporation tax charge 4.7 3.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 35.7 60.6 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 19 0.1 5.2 Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.2 Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 1.5 0.6 Tax expense for the year 36.9 56.0 Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 170.3 257.6 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 22.5% FY2012 13: 23.75% 38.3 61.2 Effects of: Non-deductible expenses 8.4 10.6 Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 3.9 4.1 Deferred tax arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 5.2 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 0.1 1.3 Write-off of contingent consideration 2.6 Non-taxable income 4.9 2.2 Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.5 1.7 Effect of deferred tax balance from changes in the UK corporation tax rate 1.5 0.6 Other items 0.9 0.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 Tax expense for the year 36.9 56.0 Non-deductible expenses include the tax impact of non-deductible IFRS 2 accounting charges in respect of share-based payments of 5.2 million.
Non-taxable income relates to unrealised foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation of the Groups US subsidiaries.
Charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.7 0.7 A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% was enacted in Finance Act 2013 and became effective from 1 April 2014.
The rate is set to fall to 20% from 1 April 2015 this rate reduction was also enacted in Finance Act 2013.
The effect of the rate reduction to 21% has been reflected in the figures set out above and the 20% rate used in the calculation of the UK deferred tax assets and liabilities.
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 1 12 2 Taxa Taxation tion 13 Earnings per share A An na ally ys siis s of of t ta ax c x char harge ge f for or t the he y yea ear r Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 130.8 million FY2012 13: 202.2 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding 2014 2014 2013 2013 own shares.
m m m m Curr Current ent tax tax Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings UK UK c cor orpor porat atio ion n t tax ax on on pro prof fits its f for or t the he ye year ar 30.
Over Overse seas as co corp rpor orat atio ion n ta tax x c cha har rg ge e 4.7 4.7 3.9 3.9 Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
A Ad djjus ust tm ment ents s iin r n res espe pect ct o of f pr priior or y year ears s 0.3 0.3 35.
60.6 6 2014 2013 Number of Number Deferred Deferred t tax ax ordinary of ordinary Origi Origin na at tiio on n an and d re reve versal rsal o of f te tempora mporar ry y di diffe ffer ren ences ces s see ee no note te 19 19 0.1 0.1 5.2 5.2 shares shares A Ad djjus ust tm ment ents s iin r n res espe pect ct o of f pr priior or y year ear 0.2 0.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 677,970,089 674,777,956 Eff Effe ect ct of of c ch han ange ges s in in c co or rpor porat ation ion t tax ax r ra ate tes s 1.5 1.5 0.6 0.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options awards 31,034,197 30,328,790 Ta Tax x e ex xp pe en nse se f fo or r th the e y year ear 36.
56.0 0 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 709,004,286 705,106,746 Fa Factor ctors s a af ffe fecting cting tax tax cha charg rge e fo for r th the e y ye ea ar r 14 Dividends 2014 2014 2013 2013 Dividends paid in the year m m m m 2014 2013 P Pr rof ofiit t b bef efor ore t e tax ax 17 170.3 0.3 25 257.6 7.6 Company m m Final dividend for FY2012 13 11.75p FY2011 12: 10.75p 81.9 75.0 Pr Prof ofit it o on n o or rd diinar nary y act activitie ivities s mu mult ltip iplied lied by by t the he b blle en nd fide ed d UK UK t tax ax rat rate e o of f 22.
61.2 2 Interim dividend for FY2013 14 4.45p FY2012 13: 4.35p 30.7 30.2 112.6 105.2 Eff Effe ec ct ts s of: of: In addition, the Group paid 6.6 million FY2012 13: 5.7 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
N Nonon-fide dedu duct ctiibl ble e e exp xpen ense ses s 8.4 8.4 10.
10.6 6 Ded Dedu uct ction ion in in r re es sp pe ec ct t of v of five est sted ed s sh har ares es e ex xe er rc cis ised ed opt option ions s P Part art 12, 12, Co Corp rpora orat tio ion n T Tax ax Ac Act t 2 20 00 09 9 3.9 3.9 4.1 4.1 Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year Defe Deferre rred d ta tax x a ar ris ising ing fr from om or origina iginat tion ion an and d r re ev five er rs sa all o of f t te em mp po or ra ar ry y d diif ff fe er re en nc ce es s 0.1 0.1 5.2 5.2 2014 2013 pence pence Company D Diif ff fe er re en nt t r rat ate e o of f t ta ax xes es o on n o ov five er rs se ea as s p pr ro of fiit ts s 0.1 0.1 1.3 1.3 Interim dividend declared per share 4.45 4.35 Wr Writeite-off off of of c co ont nting ingent ent co con ns sid iderat eratio ion n 2.6 2.6 Final dividend proposed per share 12.00 11.75 Non-t Non-tax axab ablle e in inco come me 4.9 4.9 2.2 2.2 16.45 16.10 Ta Tax x re relief lief o on n a am mort ortiis sa at tiio on n a an nd im d impa pair irme ment nt o of f g go oo od dw will ill a and nd inta intang ngible ibles s 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7 Eff Effe ect ct of of def deferr erre ed d ta tax x b ba ala lanc nce e fr fro om m ch chan ang ge es s in in th the e UK UK co corp rpora orat tio ion n tax tax r ra ate te 1.5 1.5 0.6 0.6 On 10 September 2014 the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.00p per share for the year ended 30 June 2014.
This has not been recognised Other items Other items 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.7 as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 83.6 million.
A Ad djjus ust tm ment ents s iin r n res espe pect ct o of f pr priior or y year ears s 0.1 0.1 Ta Tax x e ex xp pe en nse f se fo or r th the e y year ear 36.
56.0 0 N No on n--d fide ed du uc ct tiib blle e e exp xpen ense ses s iin nc cllu ud fide e t th he e t ta ax x iim mp pa ac ct t o of f n no on n--d ded educ uct tiib blle e IIFR FRS S 2 2 a acc ccou ount ntiin ng g c cha har rg ge es s iin n r re es sp pe ec ct t o of f s sha har re e--b ba as se ed d p pa ay ym me en nt ts s o of f 5.
N Non-taxable income on-taxable income r re elat late es s t to o unr unre eali alis sed ed f fo or re eign ign ex exchange change di diff ffer erences ences ar ariis sing ing on on co consoli nsolid dat ation ion of of t the he G Gr roups oups US US s su ub bs siid diia ar riie es s.. C Ch har arge ge r re ec co ogn gnis ised ed iin n e equ quiity ty oth other er c compr ompre eh he ens nsiv ive e inc incom ome e 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Defe Deferre rred d ta tax x o on n sh shareare-ba base sed pa d pay ym me en nts ts 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 A A r re ed du uct ction ion t to o t th he e ma main ra in rate te of of UK c UK co or rpor porat atio ion n t ta ax x from from 23 23% % t to o 2 21 1% % wa was s e en nact acted ed in in F Fiina nanc nce e A Ac ct t 20 2013 13 an and d b be ec ca am me e effe effect ctive ive fr from om 1 1 A Ap pril ril 2 2014 014.. Th The e rat rate e is is se set t to to fa fall to ll to 20 20% % fr from om 1 1 A Ap pr riil l 2 20 01 15 5 th this is rat rate e re red du uct ction ion was was a alls so o e en na ac ct te ed d in in Fina Finan nc ce Ac e Act t 20 2013.
Th The e e effe ffect ct of of th the e r rat ate e r re edu duc ct tiion on t to o 21 21% % h has as be bee en n r ref eflle ecte cted d in in th the e f fiigur gures es se set t o out ut a ab bov ove e a and nd t th he e 2 20 0% % rat rate e us use ed d in in t the he ca calc lcu ulla at tio ion n of of the the UK UK def deferr erred ed t tax ax as asset sets s a and nd liabili liabilit tiies.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund Other management Brand intangible Goodwill relationships name assets Total m m m m m Group Cost at original exchange rate At 30 June 2012, 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014 57.5 39.5 1.8 2.6 101.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 30 June 2012 5.5 0.2 2.2 7.9 Amortisation charge for year 4.8 0.3 5.1 Impairment charge for the year 9.4 1.6 11.0 At 30 June 2013 19.7 1.8 2.5 24.0 Amortisation charge for the year 3.5 0.1 3.6 At 30 June 2014 23.2 1.8 2.6 27.6 Net book value At 30 June 2012 60.0 35.8 1.7 0.6 98.1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment movement for the year 14.2 1.6 0.3 16.1 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 1.7 0.7 0.1 2.3 At 30 June 2013 61.7 22.3 0.3 84.3 Accumulated amortisation for the year 3.5 0.3 3.8 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 6.0 2.3 8.3 At 30 June 2014 55.7 16.5 72.2 FX revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
Goodwill m Company Cost At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2013 and 2014 4.1 Goodwill The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of AEIM in May 2011.
The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2014.
The Group consists of a single cash generating unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Based on managements assessment as at 30 June 2014, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying value of goodwill and no impairment was implied.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Fund management relationships Intangible assets comprise fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of AEIM.
An annual impairment review of the fund management relationships was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2014.
The recoverable amount was derived from the cumulative pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
The fund management relationships intangible asset was determined not to be impaired as the recoverable amount was higher than the carrying value as at 30 June 2014.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year FY2012 13: 11.0 million impairment was charged and included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is five years 30 June 2013: six years.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 15 15 Go Goodw odwill ill an and d in intang tangib ible le asset assets s 16 Property, plant and equipment Fund Fund Other Other 2014 2013 ma man na ageme gement nt Brand Brand intangi intangible ble Fixtures, Fixtures, Goodwill Goodwill relatio relation nsh ships ips name name as asset sets s Total Total fittings and fittings and m m m m m m m m m m equipment equipment G Gr ro oup up Group m m Cos Cost t at at orig origina inall ex exch change ange rate rate Cost A At t 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 12 2, 30 30 Ju June ne 20 2013 13 a and nd 30 30 Ju June ne 2 201 014 4 57.57.55 39.39.55 11.8.
4 At the beginning of the year 11.1 10.4 Additions 0.4 1.9 Acc Accu umul mula at te ed d amorti amortisati sation on and im and impairm pairme ent nt Foreign exchange revaluation 0.4 A At t 30 30 Ju June 20 ne 201 12 2 5.5.
5 5 24.24.0 0 Accumulated depreciation Am Amort ortiisat sation ion ch cha ar rge ge f for or t the he ye year ar 3.5 3.5 0.1 0.1 3.6 3.6 At the beginning of the year 7.4 6.2 At At 30 30 Jun June e 20 2014 14 23.
27.6 6 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 2.4 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.4 N Ne et t boo book k va value lue Disposals 5.3 1.2 A At t 30 30 Ju June 20 ne 201 12 2 60.60.00 35.35.88 1.1.
0.66 98.98.11 At the end of the year 2.8 7.4 Ac Accu cumu mulat lated ed am amort ortiis sa at tiio on n a an nd d im impa pair irme ment nt m mo ov five eme ment fo nt for r th the e y ye ea ar r 14.14.2 2 1.6 1.6 0.3 0.3 16.16.1 1 Net book value at 30 June 3.0 3.7 F Fo or rei eign gn ex excha change nge rev reva alu lua at tio ion n th thro roug ugh h re rese serv rves es 11.. 77 00.7.
0.33 84.84.33 2014 2013 A Ac ccu cum mu ullat ated ed am amor ort tiis sat atiio on n f for or t the he ye year ar 3.5 3.5 0.3 0.3 3.8 3.8 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and F Fo or rei eign gn ex excha change nge re rev va alu lua at tio ion n th thro roug ugh h re res se erv rves es 6 6.. 0 0 2 2.. 3 3 8 8.. 3 3 equipment equipment At At 30 30 Jun June e 20 2014 14 55.
72.2 2 m m Company F FX X r re eval valuat uatiio on n t th hr ro oug ugh h res rese erv rves is es is a r a re esul sult t of of th the r e re etra transla nslati tion on of of US US do dolla llarr-fide denom nomin inat ated ed in intan tang giib bles a les an nd d g go oo od dw wiill.
Cost At the beginning of the year 7.5 6.8 Goodwill Goodwill Additions 0.4 0.7 m m Co Comp mpan any y Disposals 5.2 Cos Cost t At the end of the year 2.7 7.5 At At t the he be beg giin nn niin ng g an and d e end nd of of t the he y year ear 4.1 4.1 Net Net c ca arr rryin ying g am amou ount nt at at 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 20 2013 13 an and d 2 20 01 14 4 4.1 4.1 Accumulated depreciation G Go oo od dw wiillll At the beginning of the year 6.1 4.3 Th The e Gro Grou up ps s go goo od dw will ill b ba ala lanc nce e re rela lates tes pr prin inc ciip pa ally lly t to o the the ac acqu quis isit itio ion n o of f A AE EIM IM in in M May ay 20 2011.
Depreciation charge for year 0.3 1.8 Disposals 5.2 Th The e Com Comp pan anys ys go good odw wiill ll ba balan lanc ce e re relat late es s t to o t the he ac acqu quisitio isition of n of t th he b e bu us siine ness ss fr from om A AN NZ Z in in 19 1999.
At the end of the year 1.2 6.1 Th The e a an nn nu ua all imp impa airme irment r nt re ev viiew ew o of f go good odw wiill ll wa was s u un ndert derta ak ke en n for for th the e ye year ar e en nd diing ng 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 20 01 14 4.. T Th he e Grou Group p c co on ns sis ists ts of of a a s siin ng glle e ca cash sh g ge ener nerat atin ing g Net book value at 30 June 1.5 1.4 un unit it f fo or r t the he pu purp rpos ose e of of as asse sess ssing ing the the car carry ryin ing g va valu lue e of of go goo od dw wiill.
IIn n perf perfo or rm min ing g th the e impa impairme irment nt r re ev viie ew w, ma mana nage geme ment nt pre prep par are es s a c a ca alc lcu ulla at tio ion n of of the the r re ec co over vera ab blle e amo amou un nt t of of g go oo od dw will ill a an nd d c co om mp par are es s th this is to to t th he e ca carr rryin ying g va valu lue.
e. T The he r re ec co ov five era rab blle e am amo ount unfit wa was s b ba as sed ed o on n a a f fa air ir v va allu ue e le less ss co costs sts t to o se sell ll c ca allc cu ulat latiion on u us sin ing g th the e Co Comp mpan anys ys y ye ea ar r e end nd sh shar are e pr price.
Ba Bas sed ed o on n ma mana nag ge em ment ents s ass asse essm ssme en nt t a as s at at 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 20 014, 14, the the r re ec co over vera ab blle e a am moun ount t was was in in e exc xces ess s o of f the the car carry ryin ing g va valu lue e of of go goo odw dwiill ll a and nd no no im impa pair irme ment nt was was imp impllie ied.
d. No No im impa pair irme ment nt los loss ses es ha have five be been en re reco cogn gnise ised d in in t the he c cu urrent rrent o or r p pr re ecedi ceding ng ye year ars s.. F Fun und d ma managem nageme ent nt re rela lat tiions onsh hiips ps Inta Intang ngib ible le as asset sets s com comp pr riise se f fu un nd d man mana age geme ment nt r re elat latiio on ns sh hip ips re s relat late ed d to to pr prof ofit e it ex xp pe ec ct ted ed t to o b be e e ea ar rn ne ed d f fr rom om clien client ts s of of A AE EIM.
A An n a annu nnual al iim mp pa aiir rmen ment t revi review ew o of f th the e fu fund nd ma mana nagemen gement t rela relati tion onship ships s wa was s u unde ndertake rtaken n fo for r th the e y ye ea ar r en endin ding g 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 20 2014 14.. Th The e rec reco ov five era rab ble le amo amou un nt t w was as der derive ived d fro from m t the he cu cumu mula lative tive pr pre-ta e-tax x net net ear earn ning ings s a an nt tiicipa cipate ted d to to b be e g ge ener nerat ated ed ov over er t the he rem rema ain ining ing us usefu efull ec econ onom omic ic lif life e, d diisc scou ounte nted d to to pr pres ese en nt t v va allu ue e us using ing t the he Gro Group ups s we weigh ight te ed d a av ver erag age e c co ost st of of c ca ap pit ital al of of 13.
m. Cu Cumu mulat latiiv five e n ne et t e ea ar rn nin ings gs as asso sociat ciated ed with with t th he e fu fund nd man mana age geme ment nt r re elat latiio on ns sh hip ips s int inta an ng giib blle e a as ss se et t w we er re e d fide er riiv ved ed f fr ro om m th the e a an nn nu ua all op opera erat tin ing g prof profit it c contr ontriibu but tiio on n th that at w wo ou ulld d ar aris ise e a as s a a r re es su ullt t o of f t th he e rem rema ain ining ing f fu un nd d man mana age geme ment nt r re elat latiio on ns sh hip ips, s, a ad dju jus st ted ed f fo or r inv inve est stme ment p nt pe erf rform orma an nc ce e an and d in inve vesto stor r attr attrition.
T Th he e f fu un nd d ma man na ag gem eme en nt t r re ella at tiio ons nsh hiip ps s iin nt ta an ng giib blle e a as ss set et w wa as s d fide et te er rm miin ne ed d n no ot t t to o b be e iim mp pai air re ed d a as s t th he e r rec eco ov five er rab ablle e a am mo ou un nt t w wa as s h hiig ghe her r t th ha an n t th he e carr carry yiin ng g val value ue as as at at 30 30 June June 201 2014.
A Ac ccor cord dingl ingly, y, no no iim mpai pair rment ment char charge ge w was as recogn recognised ised dur during ing the the ye year ar FY FY2012 2012 13: 13: 11.
11.0 0 milli million i on im mp pa aiir rm me en nt t w wa as s c ch ha ar rge ged d a and nd iin nc cllu ud fide ed d w wiit th hiin n o ot th her er e ex xp pe ens nse es s iin n t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s c co on ns so olliid da at te ed d s st ta at te em me ent nt o of f c co om mp pr re eh he en ns siiv five e iin nc com ome e.. Th The e re rema main inin ing g a am mort ortiisat sation ion pe per riio od d for for fu fund nd ma mana nage geme ment nt r re elat latiion ons sh hip ips is f s is fiiv five e y ye ea ar rs s 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 13 3: : s siix x y ye ear ars.
s. Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Deferred acquisition costs 2014 2013 m m Group Cost At the beginning of the year 11.9 14.3 Deferred acquisition costs recovered 0.5 2.4 At the end of the year 11.4 11.9 Accumulated charge At the beginning of the year 11.3 9.6 Charge for the year note 11 0.1 1.7 At the end of the year 11.4 11.3 Carrying value at the end of the year 0.6 The deferred acquisition costs shown above are in respect of the launch of Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited AGOL, a publicly listed closed-ended investment company incorporated in 2007, and are being charged to the Groups statement of comprehensive income over seven years.
During the year, the Group recovered 0.5 million FY2012 13: 2.4 million of deferred acquisition costs related to the managed wind down of AGOL which was proposed and approved by AGOL shareholders in March 2014.
The wind down entitled the Group to receive a reimbursement of certain launch costs which were borne at the time of AGOLs IPO in 2007.
18 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Current Trade debtors 60.7 71.0 2.0 1.8 Prepayments 2.4 2.8 1.9 1.7 Loans due from subsidiaries 249.6 249.5 Amounts due from subsidiaries 2.8 2.0 Other receivables 0.9 3.5 0.6 2.8 64.0 77.3 256.9 257.8 Non-current Loans due from subsidiaries 18.9 18.9 Total trade and other receivables 64.0 77.3 256.9 276.7 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2014 in respect of investment management services provided to that date.
98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 17 17 Def Defe erred rred acquisi acquisition tion cos cost ts s 19 Deferred taxation 2014 2014 2013 2013 Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: m m m m G Gr ro oup up 2014 2013 Cos Cost t Other Other A At t t th he e b be eg giin nn niin ng g o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 11.
14.3 3 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total fide Def fer err red ed ac acqui quisi siti tion on cos cost ts s re reco cove vere red d 0.5 0.5 2.4 2.4 m m m m m m Group A At t t th he e e en nd d o of f t th he e y ye ea ar r 11.
11.3 3 Other Other Ca Carryi rryin ng g v val alu ue e at t at th he e e en nd d of of t th he e y year ear 0.6 0.6 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total T Th he e fide defe ferred rred acqu acquiisi siti tion on cos cost ts s s sh ho ow wn n ab abov ove e a ar re e in in res resp pe ec ct t o of f the the la laun unch ch o of f As Ashmore hmore Gl Glob obal al Op Oppo portu rtun niit tie ies s Li Limi mite ted d AG AGO OL L, , a a publ publiic clly y lliis st te ed d m m m m m m Company c cllo os se edd-e en nd fide ed d iin nv ves est tm me en nt t c com ompa pany ny iin nc cor orp po or ra at te ed d iin n 2 200 007, 7, a an nd d a ar re e b be eiin ng g ch cha ar rg ge ed d t to o t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s s st ta at te em me en nt t o of f c com ompr preh ehen ens siiv five e iin nc co om me e o ov ver er Deferred tax assets 0.4 11.9 12.3 0.4 13.3 13.7 se seve ven n y year ears.
s. Dur Duriin ng g t the he ye year, ar, the the Gr Gro oup up r re ec co ov five ere red d 0 0.. 5 5 m millio illion n FY FY2 20 01 12 2 1 13: 3: 2 2.. 4 4 m millio illion n of of fide defe ferred rred ac acq qu uis isit itio ion n c co ost sts s re relat lated ed t to o th the e ma mana nag ge ed d wind wind Movement of deferred tax balances dow down n of of A AG GOL OL wh whic ich h w was as pro prop pos osed ed an and d a app ppr ro ov ved ed by by A AG GO OL L s sha har reh eho olld der ers s in in Mar March ch 20 2014.
Th The e w wiind nd do down wn ent entit itled led the the Gr Gro oup up t to o r rec eceiv eive e The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive a a re reim imb bu urs rsem emen ent t of c of ce ert rta aiin n la lau un nc ch h c co ost sts s w wh hic ich h w we ere re bo born rne e at at t th he e tim time e of of A AG GOL OLs s IIP PO O in in 20 200 07 7.. income as follows: Other 18 18 Tr Trad ade e an and d o ot the her r r re ece ceiv ivab able les s temporary Share-based Group Group Company Company differences payments Total m m m Group 2014 2014 2013 2013 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2012 0.4 13.7 14.1 Cu Curre rrent nt Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4.3 0.3 4.6 Tra Trade fide fide debt btors ors 60.
77.3 3 25 256.9 6.9 25 257.8 7.8 Other No Non-cu n-curren rrent t temporary Share-based differences payments Total Lo Loan ans s d due ue fro from su m subs bsidiar idiariies es 18.
18.9 9 At 1 July 2012 13.7 13.7 T To otal tal t tr ra ad fide e a an nd d ot othe her r re recei ceiv vabl able es s 64.
77.3 3 25 256.9 6.9 27 276.7 6.7 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.4 0.3 0.7 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2014 in respect of investment management Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2014 in respect of investment management Credited charged to equity 0.7 0.7 services provided to that date.
services provided to that date.
At 30 June 2013 0.4 13.3 13.7 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.1 1.4 1.5 At 30 June 2014 0.3 11.9 12.2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Fair value of financial instruments The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes a valuation team that has overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
The valuation team regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation adjustments.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, then the valuation team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of contingent consideration liabilities.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: 2014 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Investment securities 47.4 23.3 70.7 40.7 9.0 49.7 Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 39.1 39.1 104.9 104.9 Fair value through profit or loss investments 25.3 25.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.8 47.7 48.5 0.4 55.2 55.6 Non-current asset investments 11.7 11.7 9.1 9.1 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 2.4 48.2 149.5 197.7 41.1 178.2 219.3 Financial liabilities Third-party interests in consolidated funds 9.1 4.4 13.5 9.0 3.8 12.8 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 26.9 26.9 Contingent consideration 0.5 0.5 9.1 7.1 16.2 9.0 32.8 0.5 42.3 There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the year FY2012 13: none.
During the year the Group reclassified 12.0 million of available-for-sale financial assets from Level 3 to Level 2.
The assets relate to investments made during the year in closed-end private equity funds that are neither listed on any stock exchange nor traded on any regulated markets.
The Group considered it is more appropriate to classify these investments within Level 2 as the valuation is based on the net asset values NAVs of the funds as provided by the administrator, without any adjustment for illiquidity and or non-transferability.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 20 20 Fa Fair ir va value lue o of f fin fina an nc cia ial l in inst stru rumen ment ts s Changes in Level 3 financial liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Th The e Gro Grou up p h has as a an n e es sta tab bllis ishe hed d c co ontro ntrol l f fr ra am mew ewor ork k wit with h r re es sp pe ec ct t t to o t the he m me eas asure urem me en nt t of of fa fair ir va value lues s.. T Th his is fr fram amew ework ork in inclu clud fide es s a a va valu luat ation ion team team Contingent consideration t th ha at t h has as ove over rall all re resp spon onsibil sibiliit ty y fo for r a allll si signi gnifi fica can nt t f fai air r v val alue ue me measu asur reme emen nt ts s.. Th The e v valu aluat atio ion n te team am r regu egula larly rly r revi evie ew ws s sig signif nific ican ant t iin nput puts s a an nd d v valua aluat tio ion n liability ad adjust justme ments.
If If t th hirdird-par part ty y in infor form mat atio ion n is is us used ed t to o mea meas su ure re f fa air ir v va allu ue e, th then en t th he e v va alu lua at tion ion t te ea am m a as ss se es ss se es s an and d d do oc cu um me en nt ts s th the e e ev vid ide enc nce e obt obta aiin ned ed m from from t th he e th thir ird d p pa arties rties t to o s su upp pport ort s su uc ch h v va alu luat atio ions.
T Ther here e ar are e no no mat mate er riia all differ differe enc nces es bet betwe ween en t th he e c ca ar rr ry yiin ng g a am mo ount unts s o of f fina financ ncial ial as asse sets ts an and d At 1 July 2013 0.5 lia liab bilit ilitie ies s a and nd t th he eiir fa r fair v ir va allu ue es s at at t th he e b ba ala lanc nce e s sh he ee et t dat date e.. Gains recognised in profit within finance income 0.5 Fai Fair r val value ue hi hie er ra ar rch chy y At 30 June 2014 The Group measures fair values using the follo The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hiera wing fair value hierar rchy that reflects chy that reflects th the significance of inputs used in ma e significance of inputs used in making king the measure the measurements.
Valuation of Level 3 financial liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Le Leve vel l 1: 1: V Va alu luat atio ion n is is b bas ase ed d u upo pon n a a q quot uoted ed mar mark ket et pr pric ice e in in an an act active ive mar market f ket for or an an id ident entica icall in instr strum ume ent.
T Th hiis s f fa air ir v va allu ue e mea measu sur re e rel rela ates tes t to o t th he e The measurement of contingent liabilities classified within Level 3 is based primarily on the Groups own estimates and assumptions.
v va allu ua at tiion on o of f q qu uot ote ed d a an nd d e exc xcha hang nge e t tr rad ade ed d e equ quiit ty y a an nd d d fide eb bt t s se ec cur uriit tiie es s..
The contingent consideration liability in connection with the acquisition of AEIM was written down to nil during the year.
L Le ev five ell 2 2:: Val Valu ua at tiio on n tec techni hnique ques s are are b ba as se ed d up upon on obse obser rva vable ble iin np pu ut ts s, eith eithe er r di dire rec ct tly ly i i. e. e.. a as s p pr riic ce es s o or r iindi ndire rec ct tly ly i i. e. e.. fide deriv rived ed fr from om pr pric ices.
Th This is fa fair ir va valu lue m e me ea as su ure r re re elat late es t s to o t the he va valu luat atio ion of n of qu quot oted ed e eq qu uiit ty y s se ec cu ur riit tiie es s in ina in inac ct tiive m five ma ar rk ket ets or s or in int in inte ere rest sts in u s in un nllist isted f ed fu und nds s Financial instruments not measured at fair value who whos se e n ne et t a as ss se et t va valu lues es ar are re e refer fere en nc ce ed d to to th the e fa fair ir va valu lue es s of of t the he list listed ed or or e ex xc ch ha an nge ge t tr rad aded ed se secu cur riit tiie es s he held ld b by y th thos ose e f fu und nds.
s. Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable Le Leve vel l 3: 3: V Va alu luat atio ion n te tech chn niiq qu ues es us use e s siig gn niif fiic ca ant nt u uno nobs bserv ervab able le in inpu puts.
Th This is fa fair ir va value lue m mea easur sure e r relat elates es t to o the the va valuat luation ion of of co cont ntin inge gent nt co cons nsider iderat atio ion n approximation of fair value as at 30 June 2014 and 2013. li liabil abilit itiie es.
s. For For f fiina nanc ncia ial l in instr stru um ment ents th s that at are are rec reco og gn niis sed ed at at f fa air ir va value lue on on a a re recu curring rring ba bas siis, s, t the he Grou Group p d fide et te erm rmine ines s whe whet th he er r tr tran ansfe sfer rs s h ha av five e o occ ccurr urred ed bet betwe ween en 21 Seed capital investments lle ev vel els s iin n t th he h e hiier erar arc chy hy by by r ree-a ass sse ess ssiin ng g c cat ateg egor oriis sat atiio on n ba base sed d o on n t th he e llow owes est t llev eve ell iin nput put t tha hat t iis s s siign gniif fiica cant nt t to o t th he e f fa aiir r v val alu ue e m mea easu sure remen ment t as as a a Seed capital investments represent interests held by the Group in funds for which the Group is the investment manager to provide initial scale who wholle e a at t th the e e en nd d of of ea each ch r re epor porting ting per period.
and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Th The e fa fair ir va value lue h hiie er rarc archy hy of of f fiina nanc ncia ial l in inst str rum ument ents s w wh hic ich h a ar re e carr carriied ed at at fa fair ir v va allu ue e at at ye year ar en end d is is sum summ ma ar ris ise ed d be below: low: Net Investment 2014 2014 2013 2013 non-current Availablesecurities Other Third-party Level 1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 2 Level 3 Level 3 Tot Total al Level Level 1 1 Level Level 2 2 Level Level 3 3 Total Total financial for-sale relating to relating to interests in Non-current m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m assets heldfinancial FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset for-sale assets investments funds funds funds investments Total Fin Fina anci ncia al l a asse sset ts s Group m m m m m m m m In Inve ves st tm me en nt t se secur curiitie ties s 47.
49.7 7 Carrying amount at 30 June 2012 34.8 54.6 60.6 3.8 10.5 5.6 148.9 NonNon-cur curr re ent nt f fiin na anc ncia ial l as asse sets ts he heldld-f for-s or-sa alle e 39.
9 Net transfers: Fa Fair ir va value lue t thr hrou oug gh h pr prof ofit it or or lo loss ss in inve vestm stment ents s 25.
25.3 3 Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 25.2 29.3 0.7 4.8 A Avail vailabl able e--fo for r--sal sale e f fiin nan ancia ciall a ass sset ets s 0.8 0.8 47.
55.6 6 Held-for-sale to available-for-sale 4.8 4.8 N No on n--c cu ur rr re ent nt a ass sset et iin nv five es st tm men ent ts s 11.
1 Consolidated funds to available-for-sale 23.6 55.0 2.0 33.4 D fide eri riva vati tive five fi fina nanci ncia all iin ns st tr ru um me en nt ts s 2 2.. 4 4 2 2.. 4 4 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 73.2 27.4 14.8 0.7 30.9 3.5 33.9 48.
8.2 2 21 2199.. 33 Carrying amount at 30 June 2013 78.0 55.6 49.7 3.2 12.8 9.1 182.8 Finan Financ ciia al l liabilit liabilities ies Net transfers: Th Thir ird-p d-pa art rty y int inte ere rests sts in in c co on ns so olidat lidated f ed fu un nd ds s 9.1 9.1 4 4.4.
12.8 8 Held-for-sale to consolidated funds 40.6 48.1 7.5 D fide eri riva vati tive five fi fina nanci ncia all iin ns st tr ru um me en nt ts s 22.1.
1 Held-for-sale to FVTPL investments 12.0 12.0 N No on n--c cu ur rr re en nt t f fiin na an nc ciia all lliia ab biilliit tiie es s h he elld d--f fo or r--s sa alle e 2.7 2.7 2 2.7.
26.9 9 Available-for-sale to held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 Co Cont nting ingent c ent con onsider siderat atio ion n 0 0.. 55 00.. 55 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 16.5 31.5 0.2 14.8 9.1 9.1 7 7.1.
16.2 2 99.. 00 3322.. 88 0 0.. 55 4422.. 33 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 8.3 4.4 3.2 4.4 5.3 8.0 2.6 5.0 T Th he er re e w we er re e n no o t tr ra an ns sf fe er rs s b bet etw we een en L Le ev five ell 1 1 a an nd d L Le ev vel el 2 2 o of f t th he e f fai air r v val alu ue e h hiie er ra ar rc ch hy y d dur uriin ng g t th he e y ye ea ar r FY FY2 20 01 12 2 1 13: 3: n non one e..
Carrying amount at 30 June 2014 36.4 48.5 25.3 70.7 8.7 13.5 11.7 187.8 During the year the Group reclassified 12.0 million of available-for-sale financial assets from Level 3 to Level 2.
The assets relate to During the year the Group reclassified 12.0 million of available-for-sale financial assets from Level 3 to Level 2.
The assets relate to Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
iin nv ves est tm me en nt ts s ma mad fide e d du ur riin ng g t th he e y ye ear ar iin n c cllo os se edd-e en nd d p pr riiv va at te e e eq qu uiit ty y f fu und nds s t th ha at t a ar re e n ne eiit th he er r lliis st te ed d o on n a any ny s st to oc ck k e ex xc ch ha an ng ge e n no or r t tr ra ade ded d o on n a an ny y regu regulated lated m ma ar rke ket ts s.. T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p c con ons siid fide er re ed d iit t iis s m mo or re e a ap pp pr ro opr priia at te e t to o c clla as ss siif fy y t th he es se e iin nv five es st tm me en nt ts s w wiit th hiin n L Le ev vel el 2 2 a as s t th he e v va allu uat atiio on n iis s b ba as se ed d o on n the the net net as asset set val values ues NAVs of NAVs of the the f fu unds nds as as pr provided ovided by by t the he admini administ strat rato or, r, w wiit th hout out any any adj adju ustment stment f fo or r illi illiqui quidi dit ty y and or non-tr and or non-transf ansferabi erabilliity.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Seed capital investments continued a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held-for-sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held-for-sale.
During the year, nine funds FY2012 13: six were seeded in this manner, met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held-for-sale.
The non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale at 30 June 2014 were as follows: 2014 2013 m m Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 39.1 104.9 Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 26.9 Seed capital investments classified as held-for-sale 36.4 78.0 Investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale they are classified as financial assets designated at FVTPL, effective from 1 July 2013 FY2012 13: available-for-sale assets.
Two such investments were transferred to FVTPL category during the year FY2012 13: one was transferred to available-for-sale assets after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the reclassification.
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date it will cease to be classified as held-for-sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after considering the level of stake held and the extent to which consolidation of the fund on a line-by-line basis would be material to the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
During the year, four such funds FY2012 13: two with an aggregate carrying amount of 40.6 million FY2012 13: 25.2 million were transferred to consolidated funds.
There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
Included within finance income are net losses of 10.7 million FY2012 13: net gains of 9.3 million in relation to held-for-sale investments.
As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held-for-sale assets or liabilities is applicable.
b Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2014 comprise equities held as follows: 2014 2013 m m Equities listed on stock exchange 0.8 0.4 Equity funds 10.9 10.6 Debt funds 36.8 44.6 Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 48.5 55.6 c FVTPL investments FVTPL investments at 30 June 2014 comprise equities held in equity funds.
30 June 30 June 2014 2013 m m Seed capital designated as FVTPL investments 25.3 Included within finance income are net gains of 4.4 million on the Groups FVTPL investments.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 2 21 See 1 Seed d ca capit pital al in inves vestmen tments ts co conti ntin nu ued ed d Consolidated funds Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and its interest a a Non-curr Non-current ent assets assets and and non-cu non-cur rr re en nt t lliia ab biilliit tiies es h hel eldd-f fo orr-s sal ale e represents a controlling stake in the fund.
These funds are consolidated line-by-line.
Wh Wher ere e Gro Group up co compa mpan nie ies s in inve vest st s see eed d c cap apiit ta al l int into o f fun unds ds op oper erate ated d a and nd co contr ntro olle lled d b by y the the Gr Gro oup up an and d th the e Gro Group up is is a act ctiiv five ely ly se seek ekin ing g to to r red educ uce e iit ts s in inv five est stme ment nt a and nd it it is is c co on ns sid idere ered d h hiigh ghly ly pr prob obab able le t th ha at t it it w will ill r re elin linq qu uiish sh co contro ntrol l w wiith thin in a a ye year, ar, th the e in inter tere est sts s in in t the he f fu un nd ds s ar are e t tre reat ated ed as as he held ld-for-sfor-sa alle e 2014 2013 an and d ar are e r re ec co og gn niis sed ed as f as fiina nanc ncia ial l as asset sets s a and nd liab liabilit ilitiie es s h he eld-f ld-for-s or-sa alle.
e. Dur Duriin ng g th the e y ye ear, ar, n niine ne f fu un nd ds s F FY2 Y201 012 1 2 13 3: : s siix x wer were e s se ee ed fide ed d in in t th his is ma mann nner er, m met et m m the the ab abov ove e c cr riter iteria, ia, an and d co cons nseq eque uent ntly ly t the he as asse sets ts a and nd lia liab bilit ilitiie es s of of th thes ese e fu fund nds s w we er re e init initia ially lly c clla as ss siif fiied ed as as he held-forld-for-s sa alle.
e. Investment securities 70.7 49.7 Th The e n nonon-cu curre rrent nt as asset sets s a and liab nd liabilit ilitiie es s h he elld-ford-for-sa sale le at at 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 20 014 wer 14 were e a as s fo follows: llows: Cash and cash equivalents 6.3 1.6 Other 2.4 1.6 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Third-party interests in consolidated funds 13.5 12.8 NonNon-cur curr re ent nt f fiin na anc ncia ial l as asse sets ts he heldld-f for-s or-sa alle e 39.
39.1 1 10 104.9 4.9 Consolidated seed capital investments 65.9 40.1 N No on n--c cu ur rr re en nt t f fiin na an nc ciia all lliia ab biilliit tiie es s h he elld d--f fo or r--s sa alle e 2.7 2.7 26.
26.9 9 Investment securities include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.
S Seed eed cap capiita tal l inves investm tmen ents ts c cllas ass siifie fied d as as he held ld-fofor r-ssa alle e 36.
78.0 0 Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of 5.5 million FY2012 13: net gains of 4.6 million relating Inv Inve est stme ments nts ce cea as se e t to o b be e c cllas ass siif fiie ed d a as s h he elld-f d-fo or-s r-sa alle e whe when n t th he ey y ar are e n no o lo long nger er c co on ntro trolled lled by by t the he Gro Group.
A A lo loss ss of of c co ontro ntrol l may may ha hap pp pen en ei eith the er r to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: thro throu ugh gh sa sale le of of t the he inv inve est stme ment nt a and nd or or d dilut ilutiio on n o of f t the he Gr Grou oups ps h ho old lding.
Wh When en inv inve es st tme ments nts ce ceas ase e to be to be clas class siif fiie ed d as as h he eld-f ld-for-s or-sa alle e t th hey ey are are 2014 2013 clas class siif fiie ed d a as s f fiin na anc ncia ial l as asse sets ts fide des siign gnate ated d a at t F FV VT TP PL L, effe effect ctiv ive fr e from om 1 J 1 Ju uly ly 20 2013 13 F FY Y2 201 012 1 2 13 3: a : av va aiila lab blle e--for-s for-sa alle e as asset sets s.. Two Two s su uc ch h inv inve est stme ments nts w we er re e m m tran trans sf fe err rred t ed to o F FV VTP TPL c L ca at te eg go ory ry d du ur riin ng g t the he ye year ar F FY Y2 201 012 1 2 13 3: o : one ne wa was s tran trans sf fe erre rred t d to o a av va ailab ilablle-fo e-for-s r-sa ale le as asset sets s aft afte er t r the he Gr Grou oup re p red duc uced it ed its inter s intere ests sts Finance income 1.8 1.6 fo follow llowing ing inv inve es st tme ment nt inf infllow ows s fro from m th thir ird d p pa art rties.
T Ther here e w was as no no im imp pact act on on ne net t as ass se ets ts or or c co om mp pre reh he en ns sive ive in inc co om me e as as a a r re es su ult lt of of t th he e r re ec clla as ss siif fiic ca at tiio on n.. Gains on investment securities 7.0 4.9 IIf f t th he e f fu un nd d r rem ema aiin ns s u un nd fide er r t th he e c con ont tr ro oll o of f t th he e G Gr ro ou up p f fo or r m mor ore e t th ha an n o on ne e y yea ear r f fr ro om m t th he e o or riig giin na all iin nv ves est tm me en nt t d dat ate e iit t w wiillll c ce ea ase se t to o b be e cla classi ssifi fied ed as as Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 2.3 1.2 h he elld d--f fo or r--sa salle e, a and nd w wiillll b be e c co on ns so olliid da at te ed d llin ine e--b by y--lliin ne e a af ft te er r c con ons siid fide er riin ng g t th he e lle ev five ell o of f s st ta ake ke h he elld d a an nd d t th he e e ex xt te en nt t t to o w wh hiic ch h c con onso solliid dat ation ion of of th the e fun fund d o on n a a Other expenses 1.0 0.7 lin line-b e-byy-lin line e b bas asiis s wou woulld d b be e m mat ater eriial al to to t the he pr pres esent entat atio ion n of of t th he e Gro Grou ups ps f fiina nanc ncial ial st stat atem ement ents.
s. D Dur uriing ng t the he ye year ar, fo four ur su suc ch h f fu und nds s F FY Y2 20 01 12 2 1 13 3:: t tw wo o wi wit th h an an aggregat aggregate e carrying carrying amount amount of of 40.
40.6 6 milli million on FY FY2012 2012 13: 13: 2 25 5.. 2 2 m miilllliio on n w we er re e t tr ra an ns sf fe er rr re ed d t to o consolidat consolidated ed f fu unds.
Ther There e w wa as s n no o iim mp pa ac ct o t on n Net gains on consolidated funds 5.5 4.6 n ne et t a as ss se et ts o s or r c co om mp pr reh ehen ens siiv five e iin nc com ome e a as s a a r res esu ullt t o of f t th he e t tr ra an ns sf fe er r.. As of 30 June 2014, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Brazil, Indonesia, Luxembourg and the United States.
Incl Included uded w wiithin thin f fiinance finance iin nco come me ar are e net net llo osses sses of of 10.
10.7 7 milli million on FY2012 13: FY2012 13: net net gains gains of of 9.
9.3 3 milli million i on in n relat relatiion on to held-for-s to held-for-sa alle e inv invest estm ment ents.
s. e Non-current asset investments As As t th he e Gro Group c up co ons nsider iders s its itse elf lf t to o h ha av five e o one ne se segm gmen ent t ref refer er to to no note te 4 4, , no ad no add diit tiio on na all se segm gment enta all d diisc sclos losu ure re of of h he eld-f ld-for-s or-sa alle e a as ss se ets ts or or li liabil abilit itiie es s Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by taking is is ap app pllic icab ablle e.. account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the b b Availabl Available-for-sale e-for-sale fi financial financial assets assets final close of a fund has not occurred.
A Avail vaila abl ble e--fo for-sal r-sale fin e fina an nc cia iall a as ss se ets ts a at t 30 30 Ju June ne 201 2014 4 c co omp mpris rise e e equi quiti ties es he held ld a as s fol folllo ow ws: s: 2014 2013 m m 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Non-current asset investments 11.7 9.1 E Equi quiti ties es li lis st te ed d on on s st toc ock k e exc xcha hange nge 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.4 Included within finance income are net gains of 3.2 million FY2012 13: net gains of 1.2 million on the Groups non-current Equi Equity ty funds funds 10.
44.6 6 S Seed eed cap capiita tal l c cllas ass siifie fied d as as av ava aiilab lablle e- -for-s for-sa ale le 48.
55.6 6 c c FVTP FVTPL L iin nv five es stmen tments ts F FVTP VTPL L in inve ves st tmen ment ts s a at t 30 30 Jun June e 20 2014 14 co comp mpri rise se equ equiti itie es s hel held d in in eq equi uity ty fun fund ds s.. 30 June 30 June 30 30 June June 2014 2014 2 20 01 13 3 m m m m S Seed eed cap capiita tal l des desiigna gnated ted as as FVTP FVTPL L in inves vestmen tments ts 25.
25.3 3 Inc Incllu ud ded ed w wiith thin in f fiina nanc nce e in inco come me ar are e n ne et t g ga ain ins s o of f 4 4.. 4 4 m millio illion o n on n th the e Gr Grou oups ps F FV VT TP PL L inv inve est stme ment nts.
s. Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management Group The Group is subject to strategic, business, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the Business Review.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units in investment funds, classified either as held-for-sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management as noted in the Corporate governance report on pages 46 to 48.
Capital management It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
An overview of the ICAAP can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures covering the year to 30 June 2014 indicated that the Group had excess capital of 465.7 million year to 30 June 2013: surplus of 453.6 million over the level of capital required to meet operational risks under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
All regulated entities with the Group have complied with regulatory requirements and filings that apply in the jurisdictions they operate.
Equity, as referred to on the Groups balance sheet, is the capital for the business.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk Management and Control team.
The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk.
2014 2013 Notes m m Investment securities 21 70.7 49.7 Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 21 39.1 104.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 21 48.5 55.6 Fair value through profit or loss investments 21 25.3 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 Trade and other receivables 18 64.0 77.3 Cash and cash equivalents 370.6 395.5 Total 620.6 683.0 Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held-for-sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprised of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A to AAAm as at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: Ato AAAm.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2013: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 2 22 2 Fi Fina financial ncial ins inst tr ru ume ment nt risk risk ma mana nageme gement nt Liquidity risk G Gro roup up Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
T Th he e G Gr roup oup is is subj subjec ect t to to s st tra rate tegic gic, b bu usi sine ness ss, inv inve es st tmen ment t, op ope er ra at tio ional final an and d trea treas su ur ry y ri risk sks s th throug rougho hou ut t iit ts s b bu us siine ness ss as as di discu scuss ssed ed iin n t th he e B Bus usiin ne ess ss R Re ev viie ew w.. T Th hiis s n no ot te d e diis sc cus usse ses s t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s e ex xp pos osur ure e t to o a an nd d m man anag age em me ent nt o of f t th he e f fo ollllo ow wiin ng g p pr riin nc ciip pa all r riis sk ks s w wh hiic ch h a ar riis se e f fr ro om m t th he e f fiin na an nc ciia all In order to manage inherent liquidity risk there is a liquidity policy within the Group to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover in instr stru um me en nt ts s it it us uses: es: c cr re ed diit r t riis sk k, liq liqu uid idit ity y r riis sk k, int inte ere rest st rat rate e r riisk, sk, f fo ore reign ign ex exch chan ange ge risk risk an and d pr price ice r riisk.
Wh Wher ere e th the e Gr Grou oup p h ho ollds ds uni units ts in in in inve ves st tmen ment t all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.
fun fund ds, s, c clla as ss siif fiied eith ed either er a as s h he elldd-for for--sa sale, le, av ava aiila lab blle-f e-fo or-sa r-sale, le, F FV VT TP PL L or or no non-c n-cu urr rrent ent as asse set t inv inve est stme ment nt f fiina nanc ncia ial l as asse sets, ts, t the he re rela lat ted fina ed finan nc cia ial instr l instru um me ent nt The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: risk risk disc disclos losur ures es in in th the e n not ote e b be ello ow w cat cate eg gor oris ise e e ex xpo posur sures es ba base sed d on on t the he Gr Grou oups ps d diir rec ect t inter intere est st in in t tho hos se e fu fund nds s w wiit tho hout ut loo look kin ing g th thr rou ough gh to to the the nat natur ure e of of un unde der rlly yiin ng g s se ecur curiit tiies.
At 30 June 2014 Risk management is the Risk management is the direct direct res responsibility of the ponsibility of the Groups seni Groups senior management as no or management as noted in the ted in the Corporate governance Corporate governance report on pa report on pag ges es 4 46 to 6 to 4 48 8.. More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total Capital Capital ma man na ag geme ement nt m m m m IIt t iis s t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s po polliic cy y t that hat a allll e ent ntiit tiies es w wiit th hiin n t th he e G Gr rou oup p h hav ave e s suf uff fiic ciient ent ca cap piit ta all t to o m me eet et r re eg gul ulat ator ory y an and d w wor orki kin ng g c cap apiit ta all r req equ uiir remen ements ts an and d c con ondu duc cts ts Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 2.7 2.7 reg regu ullar ar re review views s of of its its ca cap piita tal l r req equ uiir rem ement ents s r relat elatiiv five e to to its its ca cap piita tal l r res esour ource ces.
s. Third-party interests in consolidated funds 13.5 13.5 As As t th he e Gro Group is up is r re eg gu ullat ated ed by by th the e Un Unite ited d Kin King gd do om ms s F Fiin na anc ncia ial l C Co on nd du uct ct A Au uth thor orit ity y F FC CA A, , it it is is r re eq qu uiir red ed t to o ma maint inta ain in a ap ppro prop pr riiat ate e c ca ap piit ta all a an nd d p pe er rf fo or rm m Current trade and other payables 69.4 69.4 re regul gula ar r c ca alc lcula ulat tiio on ns s o of f ca capi pital tal requi require reme men nt ts s.. Thi This s inc incllud udes es fide devel velo op pm me en nt t o of f an an In Inte tern rnal al C Ca api pital tal Ad Adeq equa uacy cy As Asse sess ssme ment nt P Pr ro oc ce es ss s ICA ICAA AP P, , b ba as se ed d 85.6 85.6 u up po on n t th he e F FC CA As s m me et tho hodo dollo og giie es s u und nder er t th he e C Ca ap piit tal al R Re eq qui uir re em me ent nts s D Diir re ec ct tiiv five e.. A An n o ove ver rv viie ew w o of f t th he e IIC CA AA AP P c can an b be e f fo ou un nd d o on n t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s w web ebs siite te a at t www.
m. The The Gr Groups oups Pi Pill llar ar 3 3 dis disc clos losu ur re es s coveri covering ng the the y ye ea ar r to to 30 30 June June 2014 2014 indica indicated ted t th ha at t the the G Gr roup oup had ex had excess cess ca capita pital l of of At 30 June 2013 465.
465.7 7 milli million on year year t to o 30 30 June June 20 2013: 13: surplus surplus of of 453.
453.6 6 million million ov over er the the lle evel vel of of capital capital r re equi quire red d t to o meet meet operat operational ional risks risks u under a nder a Pillar II Pillar II More than a as ss se es ss sm me en nt.
t. The The obj objec ecti tive five o of f the the as asse sess ssme men nt t is is to to c ch hec eck k tha that t t the he G Gr ro ou up p ha has s a adequ dequa at te e ca capi pital tal t to o ma mana nage ge iid fide en nt tiif fied ied r ris isk ks s an and d t th he e pr pro oce cess ss Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total in inc cllu ud fide es s co cond nduct uctiin ng g s stre tress ss t te ests sts t to o id ident entif ify y c ca ap piit ta al l an and d liq liquid uidiit ty y re requ quir irem ement ents s u un nd fide er r diffe differe rent nt f fu utur ture e s sc ce en nar arios ios inc incllud udin ing g a a po pot te en nt tia ial l d do ow wnt nturn.
m m m m A Alll re l regu gulat lated ed ent entities ities w wiit th h t the he Gr Gro oup up ha have five co comp mplie lied w d wiith th re regu gulato latory ry req requ uiire reme ment nts a s an nd f d fiiling lings s t th hat at ap app plly in t y in the he jur juriis sd dict ictiion ons th s they ey o oper perate ate.. Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 26.9 26.9 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 12.8 12.8 E Eq qu uiit ty y, a as s r ref efer err re ed d t to o o on n t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s b ba alla an nce ce s sh he ee et t, iis s t th he e c cap apiit ta all f fo or r t th he e b bus usiin ne es ss s..
Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 C Cr re ed diit t r riis sk k Non-current trade and other payables 0.5 Th The e Gro Grou up p h has as e ex xp po os su ure re to to cre cred diit t risk risk fr from om it its s n no or rm ma all a ac ct tiiv viit tiies es wh where ere t th he e r riis sk k is is t th ha at t a a c co ou un nt te erp rpart arty y will will be be un unab able le to to pa pay y in in f fu ull ll am amou oun nt ts s Current trade and other payables 94.1 94.1 whe when n du due.
e. 135.9 135.9 Exposure to credi Exposure to credit risk is t risk is monitored monitored on an ongoing ba on an ongoing basis by seni sis by senior man or management and the agement and the Groups Risk Management and C Groups Risk Management and Control team.
The The Group Group has a counterpa has a counterparty and cash mana rty and cash management policy in place which, in gement policy in place which, in a ad dd diit tiio on t n to o o ot th he er r c co on nt tr ro olls, s, re res stricts tricts ex exposure to any posure to any single c single counterparty ounterparty by setting by setting Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. exposure limits and requiring approval and di exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counte versification of counter rpart party banks y banks and and other financial institutions.
The Grou other financial institutions.
The Groups ps m ma ax xiimum mum e ex xp po os su ur re e t to o Interest rate risk credit risk is credit risk is repre represented by the sented by the carrying value of its carrying value of its financia financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets l assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to subject to cre cred diit t r riis sk k.. Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Notes Notes m m m m The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest revenue through adverse movements in interest rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which requires management to In Inve ves st tm me en nt t se secur curiitie ties s 2 21 1 70.
49.7 7 monitor cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
NonNon-cur curr re ent nt f fiin na anc ncia ial l as asse sets ts he heldld-f for-s or-sa alle e 2 21 1 39.
39.1 1 10 104.9 4.9 A Avail vailabl able e--fo for r--sal sale e f fiin nan ancia ciall a ass sset ets s 2 21 1 48.
55.6 6 Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Fa Fair ir va value lue t thr hrou oug gh h pr prof ofit it or or lo loss ss in inve vestm stment ents s 2 21 1 25.
25.3 3 D Der eriiv vat atiiv five e f fiin nan anc ciial al iinst nstr ru um me ent nts s 2.4 2.4 Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Tra Trade fide an and d oth other er r rec ece eiv ivab ables les 1 18 8 64.
77.3 3 2014 2013 C Cas ash h a and nd ca cash sh eq equi uiv val alen ent ts s 37 370.6 0.6 39 395.5 5.5 % % To Tota tal l 62 620.6 0.6 68 683.0 3.0 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.70 0.85 Inv Inve est stme ment nt s se ec cu urit ritiies, der es, derivat ivative ive f fiin na anc ncia ial l inst instru rume ments, nts, no non-c n-cu urr rren ent t fina financ ncial ial as asse sets h ts he eld-f ld-for-s or-sa alle, e, av ava aiilab lablle-fore-for-sa sale le f fiin na anc nciial al a ass sset ets s and and Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
FV FVT TP PL L inv inve est stme ments nts ex expo pose se th the e Gr Grou oup p t to o cr cred edit it risk risk fr from om var variou ious s c co ou un nte terp rpart artiie es s w wh hic ich h is is mo mon niito tore red d an and d re rev viie ew we ed d b by y the Gr the Gro oup.
At 30 June 2014, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for T Th he e G Gr roup oups s c cash ash a an nd d c ca as sh h e equi quiva vallen ent ts s, c co omp mpri ris se ed d o of f s sh ho ort rt-teterm rm fide depo posi sit ts s wi with th ba ban nk ks s and and liq liquid uidi ity ty fu fund nds s, a ar re e p pr re ed domin ominan antl tly y h he eld ld the year would have been 1.5 million higher lower FY2012 13: 1.5 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash wit with h c co ount unter erpart parties ies w wiit th h c cr re ed diit t ra rat tiin ng gs s ra rang nging f ing fr ro om m A A t to o A AA AA Am m a as s at at 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 20 01 14 4 30 30 Ju June ne 20 2013: 13: AAto to A AA AA Am.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
A Alll l tra trad fide e a and nd oth othe er r re rece ceiva ivab ble les s a ar re e c co on ns sid idere ered d t to o be be f fu ully lly r re ec co ov five er ra able ble a an nd n d no on ne e w we ere re o ov ver erd due ue at at y ye ear ar e end nd 30 30 Ju Jun ne e 20 2013: 13: no none.
Th The ey y inc incllud ude e f fee ee fide debt btor ors s t th hat at ar ariis se e pr priinc nciipa palllly y w wiit th hiin n t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s iinv nves est tm ment ent m man anag agem ement ent b bus usiine ness.
Th They ey ar are e m mo oni nit tor ored ed r re egu gulla ar rlly y a and, nd, h hiist stor oriically cally, fide defaul fault t In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk from units in funds which invest in debt securities and the Group holds seed le lev vels els h hav ave e be been en in ins siig gn niif fiic can ant t, a an nd, d, u un nlle ess ss a a c cllie ient nt ha has s w wiith thdr draw awn n f fun unds, ds, t the her re e is is a an n on ongo going ing r re ela latio tion nsh shiip p b betw etwee een n t th he e Gro Group up a an nd d t the he clien client t.. capital investments in those funds.
Th There ere is is n no o s siign gnif ific ican ant t c co on nc ce en ntr trat ation ion of of cr cre ed dit it r riis sk k in in re resp spec ect t of of f fe ees es ow owin ing g fr from om clie clients.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management continued Group Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various geographic areas.
The Group also holds a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in US dollars, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
The Groups policy is to hedge a proportion of the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options for up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah, net of hedging activities.
2014 2013 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m US dollar - 1% 3.2 3.2 2.9 2.7 Brazilian real - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.2 Indonesian rupiah -1% 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.4 Price risk Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Seed capital The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed investments held-for-sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 21.
The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments.
At 30 June 2014, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 9.4 million FY2012 13: 7.7 million impact on net assets and impact on profit before tax would have been 3.7 million FY2012 13: 4.9 million.
Management and performance fees The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees which are based on a percentage of value of AuM and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate which in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced in severe market conditions.
Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Using the year end AuM level of US$75.0 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 60bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$22.5 million impact on management fee revenues FY2012 13: using the year end AuM level of US$77.4 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 68bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$26.3 million impact on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2014, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements and occur consistently throughout the year.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges asset at 30 June 2014 was 2.4 million 30 June 2013: 2.1 million foreign exchange hedges liability and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument assets.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 2 22 2 Fi Fina financial ncial ins inst tr ru ume ment nt risk risk ma mana nageme gement nt co conti ntin nu ued ed The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: G Gro roup up 2014 2013 Foreign exch Foreign exchan ange risk ge risk Fair value Fair value For Fore eiig gn n e ex xc ch han ang ge e r riis sk k is is t the r he riisk sk t th hat at t the he fa fair ir va value lue or or fu futur ture e c ca as sh h f fllo ow ws s o of f f fiin na an nc cia ial l in instru strume ment nts s w will ill f flluct uctu uat ate e be beca caus use e of of c cha hang nges es in in f fo ore reig ign n Notional assets Notional assets amount liabilities amount liabilities ex exch chan ange ge r rat ates.
m m m m Th The e Gro Grou up ps s r re ev five en nue ue is a is allm mo os st t e en nt tiire rely ly d fide en no om miina nated ted in in US US d do ollar llars s, wh whilst ilst t th he e ma major joriit ty y of of t the he Gro Group ups s c co ost sts s ar are e d fide en no om mina inat te ed d in in S St ter erlliing.
Cash flow hedges Co Cons nse eq qu ue en nt tly, t ly, th he e Gro Group up ha has s a an n e ex xp po os su ure re to to m mo ove veme ments nts in in th the e GB GBP: P:US USD D e ex xc ch ha an ng ge e rate.
IIn n a ad dd diit tiion, on, the the Gr Gro oup up op opera erat tes es g gllo ob ba ally lly wh whiich ch Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 85.9 2.4 89.4 1.3 m mea ean ns s t th hat at i it t m ma ay y e ent nter er iint nto o c cont ontr ract acts s a and nd ot other her ar arr ran ange gem me ent nts s d den enom omiin nat ated ed iin n llo oca call cur curr ren enc ciie es s iin n var variio ou us s g geo eogr gra ap phi hic c ar are eas.
Th The e G Gr ro oup up al also so Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.3 0.1 ho holds lds a a n num umber ber of of s see eed d c cap apiit ta al l in inve vestm stment ents s w wh hic ich h ar are e d den enom omiina nat ted ed m ma ain inly ly in in US US do dolla llar rs, s, Bra Braz zilia ilian n rea reall an and d In Indo done fines siian an r rup upiiah.
85.9 2.4 92.7 1.4 Th The e Gro Grou ups ps po policy licy is is t to o he hedg dge e a a pro propo por rt tiio on n of of th the e Gr Grou oups ps r re eve venu nue e b by y u us siin ng g a a c co om mbi bin nat atiio on n o of f f fo or rw wa ar rd d f fo or re eiig gn n e ex xc ch ha ang nge e c co on nt tr ra ac ct ts s an and d o opt ptiio ons ns for for up up t to o tw two o y ye ea ars rs forwa forward.
The The G Gr roup oup a allso so sells sells US US doll dolla ars rs a at t sp spot ot ra rate tes s wh when en o oppo pportuni rtunitie ties s ari arise se..
The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
The The tabl table e below below shows shows th the e G Groups roups sensi sensit tivity ivity t to o a a 1.
1.0% 0% exch exchange ange movement movement in t in the he US US doll dolla ar, r, B Br razilian azilian r re eal al and and Indonesian Indonesian r ru upia piah, h, n ne et t of of Notional amount with maturity date m he hedg dging ing act activ ivit itie ies.
s. 2014 2013 2014 2014 2013 2013 Forward Forward Collars contracts Total Collars contracts Total IIm mpac pact t on on IIm mp pa ac ctt o on n pr profi ofit t IIm mpac pact t on on profit profit IIm mp pa ac ctt o on n Within 6 months 39.8 39.8 38.1 3.3 41.4 b be efo fore tax re tax equi equit ty y before before tax tax equity equity 6 12 months 33.3 33.3 41.4 41.4 For Fore eiig gn n c cu urr rren ency cy se sens nsit itivity ivity t te est st m m m m m m m m 12 months 12.8 12.8 9.9 9.9 U US S d do olllla ar r -- 1 1% % 3.2 3.2 3 3.2.
4 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is Price Price ri risk sk excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised P Pr riic ce e r riis sk k iis s t th he e r riisk sk t that hat t th he f e fa aiir r va vallu ue e or or f fu ut tur ure e c cas ash h f fllow ows s of of f fiin nan anc ciial al iinst nstr ru um me ent nts s w wiillll f fllu uct ctu uat ate e b bec eca aus use e of of m mar arke ket t c ch han ang ges es.. in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
A 2.8 million intrinsic gain FY2012 13: 0.4 million loss on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive income Seed capital Seed capital and nil intrinsic value FY2012 13: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Th The e Gro Grou up p is is e ex xp po os sed ed t to o t the r he riisk sk of of c ch ha an ng ge es s in in m ma ark rket et p pr ric ices es in in re resp spect ect of of s se eed ed ca capita pital l in inve vest stme ments nts.. Su Such ch pr pric ice e r riis sk k is is b bo orn rne e b by y t the he Gro Grou up p dire direct ctly ly t th hr ro ou ugh gh inter intere ests sts in in a av va aiila lable-f ble-fo or-s r-sa alle e an and d n nonon-curr curre en nt t a as ss se et t se seed ed ca cap piita tal l inv inve estm stment ents s o or r in indire direct ctly ly eith either er t th hro roug ugh h li linene-byby-line co line con nso sollid idat ation ion Included within the realised and unrealised hedging gain of 3.5 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2014 1.2 million loss at 30 June 2013 are: of of u un nd fide er rllyin ying g f fiin na an nc cia ial l p pe erf rform orma an nc ce e an and d p po os siit tiion ons s he held ld in in c ce ert rta aiin f n fu und nds s or or po pote tent ntia ial l impa impairme irment nts s w wh hen en f fa air ir v va allu ue es s les less s c co ost sts to s to se sell ll of of se seed ed a 1.7 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 in inv vest estme ments nts he held-forld-for-sa salle e ar are e le les ss s th than an car carry rying ing a am mo ount unts.
s. Det Deta ails ils of of s see eed d c cap apiit ta al l in inve vestm stment ents s h he elld d are are g giiv ven en in in n not ote e 21.
FY2012 13: 0.5 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p h ha as s w we ellll d def efiin ne ed d p pr ro oce ced du ur re es s g gov over ern niin ng g t th he e a ap pp pr ra aiis sal, al, ap appro prova vall an and d m mo onitor nitoriing ng of of se seed ed ca capita pital l in inve vest stme ments.
30 June 2014 : and A At t 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4, a 5 a 5% % m mov ovem eme ent nt iin n t the he f fa aiir r va vallu ue e of of t th hes ese e iin nve ves st tmen ment ts s woul would d h ha av five e h ha ad d a a 9 9.. 4 4 milli million on FY2 FY201 012 2 13 13: : 7 7.. 7 7 milli million on iimp mpact act on on a 1.8 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2012 13: 0.7 million loss.
net net asset assets s and and impact impact on on prof profiit t befor before e t tax ax w wo oul uld d have have been been 3.
Company M Ma anagement and perform nagement and performance ance fees fees The risk management processes of the Company including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below are aligned with those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p is is a alls so o iin nd diir re ec ct tlly y e ex xp po os se ed d t to o p pr riic ce e r riis sk k iin n c con onne nect ctiio on n w wiit th h t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s m man anag agem eme en nt t f fe ee es s w wh hiic ch h a ar re e b ba as se ed d o on n a a p per erc ce ent nta age ge of of v va allu ue e of of A Au uM M a an nd d f fe ees es b bas ase ed d o on n p pe er rf fo or rm man anc ce e.. M Mo ov five em me en nt ts s iin n m mar arke ket t p pr riic ce es s, e ex xc ch ha an ng ge e a an nd d iin nt ter ere es st t r rat ate es s c cou oulld d c cau ause se t th he e A AuM uM t to o f fllu uct ctua uat te e w wh hiic ch h iin n t tur urn n In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
co cou ulld d affe affect ct f fe ee es s ear earn ne ed d.. Perf Perfor orm ma an nc ce e f fee ee re reve venu nues es co cou ulld d als also o b be e red redu uc ce ed d in in s se ev five er re e ma mark rket et c co on nd diit tiion ons.
s. Credit risk Ma Mana nage geme ment nt a an nd p d perf erform orman ance ce f fee ees s ar are e d diiver vers sif ifie ied d a acro cross ss a a ra rang nge e of of in inve vestm stmen ent t th them emes es a an nd d ar are e n no ot t me meas asura urab bly ly cor corr re ellat ated ed to to an any y s siing ngle le The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial ma mark rke et t in inde dex x in in E Em me er rging ging Ma Markets rkets..
In In a addi dditi tion on, thro throug ughou hout t A As sh hm more ores s hi his st to or ry y, the the p po oli licy cy of of ha havin ving g fu fund nds s with with y ye ea ar r en ends ds s st ta ag ge ed d t thr hrou ough ghout out assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: the the f fiina nanc ncia ial l y ye ear ar ha has me s mea an nt t th that at in in p pe er riio od ds s of of ste stee ep p ma mark rket et d fide ec cline line, som some e p pe erf rfor orma manc nce e fe fees es ha hav five e st still ill b be ee en n r re ec co or rd fide ed d.. Th The e pr prof ofiit ta abili bilit ty y impact impact is is like likelly y to to be be les less s th than an t th his, is, as as co cost st m miit tiigat gatiion on act action ions s w wo ou ulld d a ap pp plly, y, in inc cllu ud diin ng g t the he r re edu duct ctio ion n o of f th the e v va ar riab iablle e c co om mp pe en ns sa at tion ion pa paid id to to em emp plloy oyee ees.
s. 2014 2013 m m U Us siin ng g t the he y ye ea ar r e en nd d A Au uM M le lev five ell o of f U US S$ $7 75 5.. 0 0 b billion illion and and appl applying ying t the he year years s av aver erage age net net manage management ment f fee ee r ra ate te of of 60bps, 60bps, a a 5% 5% movement movement Cash and cash equivalents 249.1 271.7 iin n A Au uM M w wo ou ulld d h ha av five e a a U US S$ $22 22.. 5 5 m miilllliio on n iim mp pa ac ct t on on management management fee fee r rev eve enu nue es s FY FY2 2012 012 1 13: 3: usi usin ng g the the yea year r end end A Au uM M lle evel vel of of US$77.4 US$77.4 bi billi llion on and and applyi applying ng the years the years av average net management fee r erage net management fee ra at te e of of 68bps, 68bps, a a 5% 5% movement movement iin n AuM AuM w wo oul uld d have a U have a US S$26.
$26.3 3 million million iim mpact pact on on Trade and other receivables 256.9 276.7 man mana age geme ment nt f fe ee re e reve venu nue es s.. Total 506.0 548.4 Hedging act Hedging actiiv viti itie es s The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging Th The Gro e Grou up p u use ses forw s forward a ard an nd opt d option co ion contr ntract acts s to h to hed edge ge it its s e exp xpos osur ure e to to f for ore eig ign n c curr urre en ncy cy r riisk.
Thes ese he e hedg dges, es, wh which h ich hav ave e b bee een n a ass sses ess sed ed as as from A to AAAm as at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: A to AAAm.
effe effect ctive ive ca cash sh f fllo ow w he hed dg ge es s a as s at at 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4, pr prote otec ct t a a pr prop oport ortiio on n of of t th he e Gro Group ups s rev reve en nu ue e ca cas sh h f fllo ow ws s fr from om f fo or re eig ign n ex exch chan ange ge mo mov vemen ements ts All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2013: none.
an and d o oc cc cu ur r c co ons nsis istent tently t ly th hro roug ugh ho ou ut t the the ye year.
Th The e c cu um mu ulat latiiv five e f fa air ir v va allue ue of of t the he out outst stan andin ding g for fore eig ign n ex exc ch ha an ng ge e h he ed dg ge es s as asset set at at 3 30 0 J Ju une ne 2 201 014 4 wa was s 2 2.. 4 4 milli million on 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 2013 013: : 2 2.1.
1 millio million n fo fore reign ign ex exch chan ange ge hedg hedges es lia liabili bility ty an and d is is in inclu cluded ded wi within thin th the e G Gr rou oup ps s fide deriv riva at tiv ive e f fin inan ancial cial Liquidity risk iins nst tru rume ment nt as asse sets ts..
The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Details of leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management continued Company Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2014 2013 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.59 0.34 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2014, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.9 million higher lower FY2012 13: 0.7 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
At 30 June 2014, if the foreign currency had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have decreased increased by 3.6 million respectively FY2012 13: decreased increased by 3.5 million respectively.
23 Share capital Authorised share capital 2014 2013 2014 Nominal 2013 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2014 2013 2014 Nominal 2013 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
At 30 June 2014 there were 503,750 30 June 2013: 503,750 options in issue with contingent rights to the allotment of ordinary shares of 0.01p in the Company.
There were also equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 29,315,890 30 June 2013: 28,339,002 shares that have release dates ranging from October 2014 to February 2019.
Further details are provided in note 10.
24 Own shares The Ashmore 2004 EBT was established to act as an agent to facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company with a view to facilitating the recruitment and motivation of the employees.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 37,962,631 30 June 2013: 35,205,106 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,796 30 June 2013: 3,520 and shareholders funds are reduced by 124.6 million 30 June 2013: 115.8 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees through the share-based compensation plans.
The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 2 22 2 Fi Fina financial ncial ins inst tr ru ume ment nt risk risk ma mana nageme gement nt co conti ntin nu ued ed 25 Treasury shares C Co om mp pa an ny y Treasury shares held by the Company IIn nt te er re es st t r ra at te e r riis sk k 2014 2013 Th The e pr princ inciipa pal l inte interest rest rat rate e r riis sk k fo for r t the he C Co omp mpa an ny y is is t th hat at it it co cou ulld d su susta staiin n a a r re ed du uct ction ion in in inter intere est st re reve ven nue ue from from ba bank nk fide dep po os siit ts s h he eld ld in in th the e or ordin dina ary ry Group and Company Number m Number m co cours urse e o of f b bu us siine ness t ss th hro rou ugh gh ad adver vers se m e mo ov five em me ents nts in int in inte ere rest r st ra ate tes.
s. Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 Ba Bank nk an and d s siim miilar lar fide depo pos siits ts he held ld a at t ye year ar e end nd ar are e s sho how wn n o on n t the he C Com omp pan anys ys ba bala lan nce ce sh sheet eet as as ca cash sh an and d ca cash sh eq equ uiiv va alle ents nts.. Th The e eff effe ect ctiv ive e iin nterest terest ear earn ne ed d o on n ba bank nk an and d s siim milar ilar d fide ep po os sits its dur during ing t th he e y ye ear ar is is g giiv five en n in in t th he e ta tab blle e be below: low: Reconciliation of treasury shares 2014 2013 Eff Effe ect ctive ive interest interest rates rates a ap pplic plicabl able e to to ba bank nk dep depos osits its Number Number 2014 2014 2013 2013 At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 % % % % The market value of treasury shares was 19.9 million at year end 30 June 2013: 18.4 million.
fide Depo posi sits ts wi with th ban bank ks s an and d li liqui quidity dity fu fund nds s 0.5 0.59 9 0.3 0.34 4 26 Trade and other payables fide Depo posi sits ts wi with th ban bank ks s an and d li liqui quidity dity fu fund nds s a ar re e rep repr riic ced ed a at t in inte terv rvals als of of le less ss tha than n o on ne e year.
Group Group Company Company A At t 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4, iif f iin nt ter erest est r rat ates es ov over er t th he e ye year ar h ha ad d b bee een n 5 50 0 b ba asis sis p po oin ints ts hi high gher lowe er lower r wi with th all all o ot ther her v va ar ria iable bles s h he eld ld co cons nstan tant t, po post-ta st-tax x prof profit it for for 2014 2013 2014 2013 t th he e y ye ea ar r w wo ou ulld d h ha av five e b be ee en n 0 0.. 9 9 m miilllliio on n h hiig gh he er r llo ow we er r F FY Y2 20 01 12 2 1 13 3:: 0 0.. 7 7 m miilllliio on n h hiig gh her er llower ower, , mainl mainly y as as a a r resu esullt t of of higher higher l lower ower iin nt te er res est t on on ca cash sh m m m m ba bala lan nc ce es s.. A An n a as ss su um mp pt tiio on n th that at t th he e fa fair ir v va allu ue e of of as ass se ets ts an and d lia liab bilit ilities ies will will not not be be aff affe ect cted ed by by a a c ch ha an ng ge e in in int inte ere rest st r ra ate tes s was was us use ed d i in n t th he e m mo od fide ell t to o Current ca calc lcu ulla at te e t the he eff effect ect on on po post-t st-tax ax p pr rof ofits.
Trade and other payables 34.0 45.5 28.6 40.3 Accruals and deferred income 35.4 48.1 3.3 5.3 Foreign exch Foreign exchan ange risk ge risk Th The e Com Comp pan any y is is ex expo pose sed d p pr rimar imarily ily to to f fo or re eig ign n e ex xc ch han ange ge r riisk sk in in re resp spect of US ect of US d do olllar lar c ca as sh h b ba ala lanc nces es an and d US US do dollar-d llar-fide en no om mina inat te ed d int inte er rcom comp pany any Amounts due to subsidiaries 0.9 0.2 ba balla an nce ces.
s. H How owe ever ver, su such ch r riisk sk iis s not not he hed dge ged d b by y t th he e C Com ompa pany.
Contingent consideration 0.5 Total trade and other payables 69.4 94.1 32.8 45.8 A At t 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 2014, i 014, if f th the e fo forei reig gn n curre currenc ncy y h ha ad d s streng trengthe thened ned wea weakene kened d b by y 1 1% % a ag gai ainst S nst St te er rli ling ng wi with th all o all ot the her va r vari riable ables s he held ld con cons sta tan nt, t, pr pro of fiit t bef befor ore e tax tax f fo or r t the he year year would would have have decr decreased eased iin ncreased creased by by 3.
3.6 6 milli million on respect respectiively vely FY FY2012 2012 13: 13: decr decreased increas eased increased ed by by 3.5 3.5 million million r re esp spec ecti tivel vely y..
Contingent consideration 23 23 Sha Shar re e ca cap piit ta al l The Groups contingent consideration liabilities were written down to nil during the year.
The contingent consideration liabilities comprised A Aut utho hori ris se ed d s sha hare re c ca api pit ta all amounts payable subject to achievement of agreed milestone targets by the relevant maturity date of 31 May 2014.
The reduction of the 2014 2014 2013 2013 discounted liability, the corresponding entry to which is reported within finance income, was driven principally by the levels of AuM managed 2014 2014 Nomi Nominal final 2013 2013 Nomina Nominal l by AEIM as at 30 May 2014, compared to higher levels forecast when the fair values of the contingent consideration liabilities were established.
Number Number of of value value Number Number val value ue Gr Grou oup p a an nd d C Co om mp pa an ny y shares shares 0 00 00 0 of of shar shares es 000 000 Movement of contingent consideration Ord Ordiin na ary ry s sh har ares es of of 0.
0.01 01p p e ea ac ch h 90 900,0 0,000, 00,00 000 0 90 90 90 900,0 0,000, 00,00 000 0 90 90 Contingent consideration m Issue Issued d sh shar are capi e capital tal all allo otted tted an and d full fully y pai paid d 2014 2014 2 20 01 13 3 At 30 June 2012 10.7 2014 2014 Nomi Nominal final 2013 2013 Nomina Nominall Net present value discount unwind 0.9 Number Number of of value value Number Number val value ue G Gr ro oup up and and C Co om mp pan any y shares shares 0 00 00 0 of of shar shares es 000 000 Fair value adjustment 10.8 Consideration that crystallised during the year Ord Ordiin na ary ry s sh har ares es of of 0.
0.01 01p p e ea ac ch h 71 712,7 2,740, 40,80 804 4 71 71 71 712,7 2,740, 40,80 804 4 71 71 FX revaluation 0.3 A Allll t th he e a abo bov five e o or rd diin nar ary y s sha har re es s r re ep pr re es se en nt t e eq qu uiit ty y o of f t th he e C Com omp pa any ny a an nd d r ra an nk k p par arii p pas assu su iin n r re es sp pe ec ct t o of f p pa ar rt tiic ciip pa at tiio on n a an nd d v vo ot tiin ng g r riig gh ht ts s.. At 30 June 2013 0.5 A At t 30 30 Ju June ne 20 201 14 4 t ther here e w wer ere e 5 503, 03,75 750 0 3 30 0 J Jun une e 2 20 013: 13: 50 503, 3,7 750 50 op opt tiion ons s in in iis ss su ue e wi with th c co on nt tiin ng ge en nt t rig righ ht ts s to to th the e all allo otment tment o of f ordin ordina ary ry s shar hares es Fair value adjustment 0.5 of of 0.
0.01 01p p iin n t th he e C Com ompa pany.
Th Ther ere e w wer ere e a alls so o eq equ uiit tyy-set sett tlled ed sh shar are e aw awar ard ds s iis ssu sued ed un und fide er r t the he O Om mn niibu bus s P Pllan an t tot ota alllliing ng 29, 29,31 315, 5,8 890 90 30 30 Ju Jun ne e 20 2013 13: : At 30 June 2014 28, 28,33 339,0 9,002 02 sh shar ares es t th hat at ha hav five e re refile leas ase e d da ate tes s ra ran ng gin ing g fro from m Oc Octo tober ber 20 2014 t 14 to o Fe Febru brua ar ry y 20 2019.
Fur Furth ther er d fide eta tails ils ar are e pr prov ovide ided d in in not note e 1 10 0.. 24 24 Own Own sh shar are es s Th The e As Ashm hmore ore 20 2004 04 E EB BT T wa was s e est sta abl blish ishe ed d to to act act as as an an ag agent ent to to f fac acilit ilitate ate t the he ac acq quis uisit itio ion n a and nd ho hold ldin ing g of of sh share ares s in in t the he C Co ompa mpan ny y w wiit th h a a v viie ew w to to fa facili cilitati tating ng the the rec recr rui uitmen tment t and and mo moti tiva vati tion on o of f the the empl employ oyees ees.. As As a at t th the e y ye ea ar r e en nd d, the the EB EBT T o ow wn ne ed d 37 37,9, 962 62,63, 631 1 3 30 0 J June une 20 2013 13: : 35 35,20, 205,1 5,106 06 ord ordiinar nary y s sh ha ar re es s o of f 0.0 0.01p 1p w wiith th a n a no om mina inall va value lue of of 3 3, 79 796 6 3 30 0 J Ju un ne e 2 20 013: 13: 3, 3,52 520 0 a and nd sh share areh ho ollde ders rs f fu und nds s ar are e r re ed du uc ced ed by by 1 124.
115.8 8 milli million on iin n t th hiis s r re espect.
It It iis s t the he intent intentiio on n of of the the Di Dir re ect ctors ors t to o make make t th hese shar ese shares es avail availa able ble to to empl employees oyees t th hrough rough t the he sh shar are e--ba base sed d c co om mp pe en ns sa at tio ion n p plla an ns s.. T Th he e E EB BT T iis s p pe er riio od diic ca alllly y f fu un nd fide ed d b by y t th he e C Com omp pa an ny y f fo or r t th he es se e p pur urpo pose ses.
s. Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Subsidiaries Operating subsidiaries Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 2014 2013 Company m m Cost At the beginning and end of the year 20.1 20.1 In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2014 will be annexed to the next annual return of Ashmore Group plc filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation formation and % of equity principal place shares held of operation by the Group Name Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Ashmore Investments Brasil Limited Guernsey 88.57 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 84.20 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 70.00 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. USA 62.90 Consolidated funds The following investment funds, over which the Group is deemed to have control, have been consolidated into the Groups results.
Country of incorporation % of net formation and assets value principal place held by the Name Type of fund of operation Group Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Equity USA 65.0% Ashmore Brasil Aes FIC fide FIA Equity Brazil 69.4% Ashmore Dana Ekuitas Nusantara Equity Indonesia 81.0% Ashmore Dana Obligasi Nusantara Local currency Indonesia 91.5% Ashmore SICAV Equity Select Fund Equity Luxembourg 100.0% Ashmore SICAV 3 Multi Strategy Fund Multi-strategy Luxembourg 83.1% 110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 27 27 Sub Subs sid idia iar riie es s 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Operating s Operating subs ubsidi idia ari ries es Associates and joint ventures M Mo ov five em me en nt ts s iin n iin nv five es st tm me en nt ts s iin n s su ub bs siidi dia ar riie es s d du ur riin ng g t th he e y ye ea ar r w wer ere e a as s f fo ollllo ow ws s:: The Group held interests in the following associates and joint ventures as at 30 June 2014: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Country of incorporation % of equity C Com ompa pany ny m m m m formation and principal shares held by Type Nature of business place of operation the Group Name Co Cost st VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% At At t the he be beg giin nn niin ng g an and d e end nd of of t the he y year ear 20.
20.1 1 Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% In In th the e o op piin niion on of of the the Dir Dire ec ct tor ors, th s, the fo e follow llowiin ng g s su ubs bsidiar idiary y u un nd fide ert rtak aking ings s pr princ inciipa pally lly aff affe ec ct ted ed t th he e Gro Group ups s r re es su ults lts or or f fiin na anc ncia ial l p po osition.
A A f fu ull ll lliist st of of Central China Securities Co. Limited Joint venture Investment management China 49% s su ub bs sid idia iary ry un unde derta rtak kiings ngs a at t 3 30 0 J June une 20 2014 14 will will be be ann anne ex xe ed d to to the the ne next xt a an nn nu ual al retu return rn of of A As sh hm mo or re e G Gr rou oup p p pllc c fil file ed d wi with th th the e R Regi egis st tra rar r of of Co Compa mpan nie ies.
s. The associates and the joint venture are unlisted.
Countr Country of y of incorpo incorpor rat ation ion Movements in investments in associates and joint venture during the year were as follows: formation formation and and % of equit % of equity y princip principa all pl plac ace e shares held shares held 2014 2013 of op of oper eratio ation n by by t th he e Gr Group oup Name Name Joint Associates ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ments nts U UK K L Liim miit te ed d E Engl nglan and d 10 100.0 0.00 0 m m m m m m As Ashm hmor ore In e Inve vest stme ment M nt Ma an na ag ge em ment ent L Liim miit te ed d E Engl nglan and d 10 100.0 0.00 0 At the beginning of the year 2.3 9.5 11.8 2.3 2.3 As Ashm hmor ore e M Man anag agem ement ent C Com ompa pany ny Lim Limiite ted d G Gu ue er rn ns se ey y 10 100.0 0.00 0 Additions 9.9 9.9 As Ashm hmor ore In e Inve vest stme ment M nt Ma an na ag ge em ment ent S Sin ing ga ap po ore re P Pt te.
Lt e. Ltd. d. S Siing ngap apor ore e 10 100.0 0.00 0 Share of profit 0.2 2.1 1.9 0.3 0.4 0.1 AA AA D Dev evelo elopment pment C Capi apita tall In Inves vest tme men nt t M Man anage agers rs M Mau auri riti tius us LLC LLC M Ma au uri riti tiu us s 55.
55.00 00 Distributions 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ment nts s B Br ras asiil l L Liimit mite ed d Guer Guerns nse ey y 88.
88.57 57 At the end of the year 2.3 7.4 9.7 2.3 9.5 11.8 As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ments nts I Ind ndia ia L Liimit mite ed d M Ma au ur riit tiiu us s 10 100.0 0.00 0 As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ments nts Tur Turke key y NV NV Nether Netherlla ands nds 84.
84.20 20 Associates As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ment nt M Ma an na ag ge em ment ent U US S Co Corp rpora orat tion ion U US SA A 10 100.0 0.00 0 The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
P PT T As Ashmo hmor re e A Asse sset t Ma Mana nage gemen ment t In Indo done nesia sia In Indo done nesia sia 70.
70.00 00 2014 2013 As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ment nts s C Colom olomb biia a SL SL S Spai pain n 10 100.0 0.00 0 Group m m As Ashm hmor ore e J Jap apan an Co. Co. L Liim miit ted ed J Jap apan an 10 100.0 0.00 0 Total assets 3.4 4.7 As Ashm hmor ore e In Inve vest stme ment Co nt Cons nsu ullt tiin ng g Be Beijing Co. L ijing Co. Liim miit te ed d Ch China ina 10 100.0 0.00 0 Total liabilities 1.1 1.4 As Ashm hmor ore e E Equ quiitie ties s Ho Holdin lding g C Cor orpor porat atio ion n USA USA 10 100.0 0.00 0 Net assets 2.3 3.4 As Ashm hmor ore e E Eq qu uiitie ties s Inv Inve estm stment ent Ma Mana nage geme ment nt U US S L L.. L. C. L. C. U US SA A 62.
62.90 90 Groups share of net assets 0.7 1.1 Revenue for the year to 30 June 2014 4.6 4.9 C Co on ns so olliida dat te ed d f fu un nd ds s Profit for the year to 30 June 2014 0.6 1.1 T Th he e f fo ollllo ow wiin ng g i in nv ves est tm me en nt t f fun unds ds, ov ove er r w wh hiic ch h t th he e G Gr ro ou up p i is s d fide ee em me ed d t to o h ha av five e c co on nt tr ro ol, l, h ha av five b e be ee en n c co on ns so olliid da at te ed i d in nt to o t th he e G Gr ro ou up ps s r re es su ullt ts s.. Groups share of profit for the year 0.2 0.3 Countr Country of y of incorpo incorpor rat ation ion % of net % of net The carrying value of the investments in associates include attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although the formation formation and and asset assets val s value ue princip principa all pl plac ace e hel held d by by t th he e Groups share of net tangible assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the Name Name Type Type of of fund fund of op of oper eratio ation n Gr Group oup consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
A As sh hm mo or re e E Em me er rg giin ng g M Ma ar rk ke et ts s E Eq qu uiit ty y F Fu un nd d E Eq qu uiit ty y U US SA A 65.
65.0% 0% As Ashm hmor ore e B Br ra asil sil A Ae es s FIC FIC fide fide FI FIA A Eq Equ uiity ty Br Braz azil il 69.
69.4% 4% The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 5.1 million 30 June 2013: 6.4 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
As Ashm hmor ore Da e Dana na E Eku kuiit tas Nus as Nusant antar ara a EEquiquitty I y Inndodonenesisiaa 81.
81.0% 0% Further details are provided in note 30.
A Ash shm mo or re e D Dan ana a Obl Obliiga gasi si Nu Nusa san nt tar ara a L Loc ocal al cu cur rr ren ency cy In Indo done nesia sia 91.
91.5% 5% A As sh hm mo or re e S SIICAV CAV E Equi quity ty Sel Sele ec ct t Fun Fund d EEqui quity L ty Luuxxeembo mbouurrgg 10 100.0 0.0% % As Ashm hmor ore e SI SIC CA AV V 3 3 M Mu ult lti i S Strat trateg egy y Fu Fund nd Mu Multlti-i-stra strate tegy gy Lu Luxe xemb mbour ourgg 83.
83.1% 1% Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures During the prior year, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire a 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Ltd. in China.
Under the terms of the agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million.
Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: 2014 2013 m m Current assets 8.7 5.7 Non-current assets 0.1 0.1 Current liabilities 1.4 0.1 Total equity 7.4 5.7 Income 0.6 0.4 Expenses 2.7 0.8 Loss for the year 2.1 0.4 29 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, Ashmore Funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Key management personnel Group and Company The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel for employee services is shown below: 2014 2013 m m m Short-term employee benefits 0.9 2.7 Defined contribution pension costs Share-based payment benefits 0.4 1.7 0.5 4.4 Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of share awards.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 69.
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2012 13: none.
Aggregate key management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2014 were 3.3 million 30 June 2013: 3.5 million.
Transactions with subsidiaries Company Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: 2014 2013 m m Transactions during the year Management fees received 45.0 79.1 Net dividends received 143.2 196.7 Loans given to subsidiaries 40.9 51.3 Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 18 and 26.
Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group During the year, the Group received 158.5 million of gross management fees and performance fees FY2012 13: 337.0 million from the 90 funds FY2012 13: 75 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June 2014 the Group had receivables due from funds of 55.3 million 30 June 2013: 57.6 million.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements N No ote tes s t to o t th he e fin fina anc ncia ial l s sta tat te em me en nts ts co cont ntin inued ued 2 28 8 Investm Investments ents in associ in associates ates a an nd d jjo oin int t five vent ntur ures es co conti ntinu nue ed d Transactions with the EBT Group and Company The EBT, which acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation plans, has been provided a loan facility to allow J Jo oint int five ventures ntures it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares awards.
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and Dur Duriin ng g t the he pr prior ior ye year, ar, th the e Gr Grou oup p ent enter ered ed into into an an a ag gre reem emen ent t to to ac acq qu uire a ire a 4 49 9% % int inte er re est st in in a a f fu un nd d m ma ana nage geme ment nt jo joint int v vent entur ure e w wiit th h C Ce entral ntral the Company.
As at year end the loan outstanding was 137.6 million 30 June 2013: 112.7 million.
Ch China ina S Se ec cu ur riit tiie es s Co. Lt Co. Ltd. d. in in Ch China.
Und Unde er r t the he t te erm rms s of of t the ag he agre reem ement ent an and d u up pon on be being ing gra gran nt ted ed t the r he re eq qu uiire red d a ap ppro prov va alls s b by y th the e Ch China ina Se Secu curi riti ties es R Regu egula lato tory ry Co Commis mmissio sion n a an nd d othe other r refile releva vant nt go gove vern rnme men nt t a au utho thor riit tiie es s, the the G Gr roup oup c co ontributed ntributed its its share share o of f t the he iini nit tiial al ca capi pit tal aliis sat atiion on, eq equiv uiva ale len nt t Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company to to 9.9 m 9.9 miillion.
The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within Su Summ mmar aris ised ed f fiina nanc ncia ial l info inform rmat atio ion n on on t the he Gro Group ups s s shar hare e in in t the he jo join int t v vent entur ure e is is s sh hown own be below: low: the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore operates with a view to giving back into the countries and communities in which the Group invests and which contribute to Ashmores income and profitability.
The Group donated less than 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m FY2012 13: 0.1 million.
Cu Curre rrent as nt asset sets s 8.7 8.7 5.7 5.7 30 Commitments N Nonon-cur curr re ent nt a ass sset ets s 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Operating lease commitments C Cu urrent li rrent liabil abilit itiie es s 1.4 1.4 0.1 0.1 The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, T To ot tal al eq equi uity ty 7.4 7.4 5.7 5.7 and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Incom Income e 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 Group E Exp xpen enses ses 2.7 2.7 0.8 0.8 2014 2013 m m Lo Loss ss f for or t the he ye year ar 2.1 2.1 0.4 0.4 Within 1 year 2.8 2.9 2 29 9 R Re ella at te ed d p pa ar rt ty y t tr ra an ns sa act ctiio on ns s Between 1 and 5 years 8.2 8.5 R Re ela late ted d p pa artie rties s of of th the e Grou Group p in includ clude e k ke ey y ma mana nagemen gement t pe person rsonnel nel, c cllo os se e fa famil mily y membe member rs s o of f ke key y man mana ag ge emen ment t pe pers rson onnel nel, su subsi bsid diia ari ries es, Later than 5 years 5.2 6.7 as asso sociat ciates, es, joint joint five ventu ntur re es s, A As sh hm more ore Fu Fun nd ds, s, t the he E EB BT T an and d t the he A As sh hm mor ore e F Fo ou un nd dat ation ion.. 16.2 18.1 K Ke ey y m man anag age em me en nt t p per ers so on nn ne ell Gr Grou oup p and and C Co omp mpan any y Company Th The e c com ompe pens nsat atiion on pa paid id to to or or pa pay yab ablle e to to ke key y m man ana age geme ment nt p per erso sonn nnel el f for or em emp pllo oye yee e ser serv viic ce es s is is s show hown n b be ellow: ow: 2014 2013 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m m m m m Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 S Sh ho or rt t-tter erm m e em mp pllo oy ye ee e b be en ne ef fiit ts s 0.9 0.9 2.7 2.7 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 D fide ef fiin ne ed d co con ntr triib bu ut tiio on n p pe en ns siio on n c co os st ts s Later than 5 years 5.2 6.3 S Sh ha ar re e--b ba as se ed d p pa ay ym me en nt t b be en ne ef fiit ts s 0.4 0.4 1.7 1.7 11.0 12.1 0.5 0.5 4.4 4.4 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Sh Shar are-b e-ba as sed ed pa pay ym me en nt t b be en ne ef fiit ts s re repre pres se en nt t t the he f fa air ir v va alu lue e c ch har arge ge t to o t th he e st state atem me en nt t of of c co om mp pre rehe hens nsive ive in incom come e of of s sh har are e a aw war ards.
Undrawn investment commitments Deta Details ils of of t th he e re remu muner nerat atio ion n o of f Direct Directo or rs s ar are g e giive ven n in in th the e R Re em mu uner nerat atio ion n re rep po ort rt o on n p pa ag ge es s 56 56 t to o 6 69 9.. 2014 2013 Dur Duriin ng g t the he ye year, ar, ther there e w we er re e n no o ot other her t tr ra an ns sact action ions s ent enter ered ed into into with with ke key y ma mana nag ge em me ent nt p pe ers rso on nn ne ell F FY Y2 20 012 12 13: 13: no non ne e.. Ag Aggr greg egat ate e k ke ey y m m management management personnel personnel i in nt te er re est sts s iin n consoli consolid dat ated ed f fu unds nds at at 30 30 June June 2014 2014 wer were e 3.
3.3 3 milli million on 30 30 June June 2013: 2013: 3.5 3.5 mi million llion.. Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 2.9 4.9 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.6 3.0 T Tr ra an ns sa ac ct tiio on ns s w wiit th h s subs ubsidiar idiariies es Com Comp pany any VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, L. P. 3.5 3.4 Deta Details ils of of t tr ra an ns sa ac ct tiio on ns s bet betwe ween en t the he C Co omp mpa an ny y an and d it its s s su ub bs sid idia iarie ries s a ar re e s sh ho ow wn be n below: low: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Company m m m m The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 84.2 million 30 June 2013: 94.5 million to support their Tr Tran ansa sacti ctio on ns s d du uri rin ng g th the ye e year ar investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2013: none.
Ma Mana nage geme ment f nt fe ees es r rec ece eiv ived ed 45.
79.1 1 31 Post-balance sheet events Ne Net t divi divide dend nds s rec rece eiiv ved ed 14 143.2 3.2 19 196.7 6.7 There were no post-balance sheet events that required adjustment of or disclosure in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2014.
L Loa oans ns gi giv ven en t to o su subsi bsidi diar ariies es 40.
51.3 3 Am Amou ount nts s re rece ceiva ivab ble le or p or pa ay ya ab blle e to to su subs bsidiar idiariies es are are disc disclos lose ed d in in n no ot te es s 1 18 8 a and nd 26.
Tr Transac ansact tio ions ns w wiith th As Ashmo hmore re Fu Funds nds G Gro roup up Dur Duriing ng t the he year, year, the the G Gr roup oup r re ece ceiiv ved ed 158.
158.5 5 milli million on of gr of gross manage oss management ment f fe ees es and and perf perfo or rm mance ance fees fees FY FY2 2012 012 13: 13: 3 337.
37.0 0 milli million on fr from om the the 9 90 0 fu fund nds s FY FY2 20 01 12 2 13 13: : 75 75 fund funds s iit t ma mana nages ges an and d wh which ich a ar re e cla clas ss siified fied as as rela related ted pa partie rties s.. A As s a at t 30 30 J June une 20 2014 14 th the e G Gr ro ou up p ha had d re recei ceiv va ables bles du due e fro from m funds funds of of 55.3 million 55.3 million 30 30 June 2013: 57.6 June 2013: 57.6 m miilllliio on n.. Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Goodwill The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is determined in reference to the Groups market capitalisation, whereas recoverable amount for intangible assets is determined based upon value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2014 was 72.2 million 30 June 2013: 84.3 million.
Management considers that reasonable possible changes in any of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets to materially exceed their recoverable values.
Performance fees The Group assesses the recognition of performance fees to determine whether receipt of the fees is considered probable and the amount reliable.
The assessment is made using managements judgement of the circumstances relevant to each performance fee entitlement.
There were no outstanding performance fees receivable at 30 June 2014 30 June 2013: none.
It is possible that this document could or may contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
