| 27 270 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Analysis of investments Analysis of investments We invest our policyholders funds and our own funds in order to generate a return for both policyholders and shareholders.
The financial strength of the Group and both our current and future operating results and financial performance are, therefore, in part dependent on the quality and performance of our investment portfolios in the UK, Europe, North America and Asia.
For additional information on our financial investments, see IFRS Financial statements Note 27 Financial investments.
Investment strategy Our investment portfolio supports a range of businesses operating in a number of geographical locations.
Our aim is to match the investments held to support a line of business to the nature of the underlying liabilities, whilst at the same time considering local regulatory requirements, the level of risk inherent within different investments, and the desire to generate superior investment returns, where compatible with this stated strategy and risk appetite.
Long-term insurance and savings business As stated above, we aim to optimise investment returns whilst ensuring that sufficient assets are held to meet future liabilities and regulatory requirements.
As different types of life insurance business vary in their cash flows and in the expectations placed upon them by policyholders, we need to hold different types of investments to meet these different cash flows and expectations.
The UK with-profits business is comprised largely of long-term contracts with some guaranteed payments.
We are therefore able to invest a significant proportion of the funds supporting this business in equities and real estate.
This is because the longterm nature of these contracts allows us to take advantage of the long-term growth potential within these classes of assets, whilst the level of guaranteed payments is managed to mitigate the level of risk that we bear in relation to the volatility of these classes of assets.
Non-UK participating business, annuities and non-participating contracts in all countries, have a high level of guaranteed future payments.
We endeavour to match the investments held against these types of business to future cash flows.
We therefore have a policy of generally holding fixed income securities and mortgage loans with appropriate maturity dates.
With unit-linked business, the primary objective is to maximise investment returns, subject to following an investment policy consistent with the representations that we have made to our unit-linked product policyholders.
General insurance and health business The general insurance and health business is comprised of shorter-term liabilities than the long-term insurance business.
Furthermore, all the risk attaching to the investments is borne by our shareholders.
As a result, the investment portfolio held to cover general insurance liabilities contains a higher proportion of fixed income securities than the portfolio held to cover life insurance liabilities.
Property partnerships As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain European policyholder funds have invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
The nature of our involvement in property partnerships is set out in the second and third paragraphs of the Investment vehicles section of IFRS Financial Statements Accounting policies D Consolidation principles.
Property partnerships are accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or financial investments depending on our participation and the terms of each partnership agreement.
For each property partnership accounted for as a subsidiary, joint venture or financial investment, we are exposed to falls in the value of the underlying properties which are reflected as unrealised gains losses on investment properties, our share of joint venture results and unrealised gains losses on financial investments, respectively.
However, the majority of these are in policyholder funds rather than shareholder funds so such losses are offset by changes in the amounts due to policyholders or unitholders, or UDS.
Analysis of investments We distinguish between policyholder, participating fund and shareholder investments, which are terms used to reflect the differing exposure to investment gains and losses.
Policyholder assets are connected to our unit-linked business, where the policyholder bears the investment risk on the assets in the unit-linked funds.
Our exposure to loss on policyholder assets is limited to the extent that income arising from asset management charges is based on the value of assets in the funds.
Participating fund assets relate to some of our insurance and investment contracts which contain a discretionary participation feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
Our exposure to investment losses on participating funds is generally limited to our participation in the fund.
Shareholder assets are other assets held within our businesses that are not backing unit-linked liabilities or participating funds.
