| 25 250 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Financial and operating performance continued On 13 November 2014 the Group and its joint venture partner businesses in France and Ireland: in Canada we have a leading Sabanci Holdings completed an initial public offering of a general insurance operation: in Asia we predominantly have minority share of their Turkish life and pensions joint venture long-term insurance and savings businesses.
Our fund AvivaSA Emeklilik five Hayat A. s Aviva SA.
The sale reduced management businesses operate across Europe, Asia, North the Groups holding in Aviva SA from 49.8% to 41.3% and America and the UK.
continues to be recognised as a joint venture.
The Group Long-term insurance and savings business received cash proceeds of 40 million from the share sale For most of our life insurance businesses, such as those in the resulting in a 23 million gain.
UK and France, operating earnings are generated principally On 2 December 2014 the Group and Friends Life Group from our in-force books of business.
Our in-force books consist Limited Friends Life announced that they had reached of business written in prior years and on which we continue to agreement on the terms of a recommended all share acquisition generate profits for shareholders.
Under IFRS, certain costs of Friends Life by the Group.
The proposed acquisition is subject incurred in acquiring new business must be expensed, thereby to a number of conditions including approval from shareholders typically giving rise to a loss in the period of acquisition, at a general meeting on 26 March 2015.
If the conditions to the although the degree of this effect will depend on the pricing proposed transaction are satisfied, it is expected to complete in structure of product offerings.
In certain higher growth markets, the second quarter of 2015. current year sales have a more significant effect on current year On 11 December 2014, the Group completed the disposal operating earnings.
of its 50% holding in Spanish subsidiary CXG Aviva Corporacion Caixa Galicia fide Seguros y Reaseguros, S. A. for cash UK with-profits business consideration of 221 million.
With-profits products are designed to pay policyholders On 18 December 2014, the Group completed the sale of its smoother investment returns through a combination of regular Turkish general insurance operations resulting in a 17 million bonuses and final bonuses.
Shareholders' profit emerges from loss on sale.
this business in direct proportion to policyholder bonuses, as Further details can be found in the section IFRS Financial shareholders receive up to one-ninth of the value of each year's statements note 4 Subsidiaries.
Accordingly, the smoothing inherent in the bonus declarations provides for relatively stable Activity in 2013 annual shareholders' profit from this business.
The most On 8 January 2013, Aviva sold the remainder of its stake in significant factors that influence the determination of bonus Delta Lloyd at 12.65 per share resulting in gross cash proceeds rates are the return on the investments of the with-profits funds of 353 million.
and expectations about future investment returns.
Actual and On 8 March 2013, the Group completed the disposal of its expected investment returns are affected by, among other Irish long-term business subsidiary, Ark Life to Allied Irish Bank factors, the mix of investments supporting the with-profits fund, AIB, and the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Aviva which in turn is influenced by the extent of the inherited estate Life Holdings Ireland Limited from AIB for total cash within the with-profits fund.
The annual excess of premiums and investment return over On 24 April 2013, the Group disposed of its entire holding operating expenses, benefit provisions and claims payments within in its Spanish long-term business subsidiary, Aseval to Bankia for our with-profits funds that are not distributed as bonuses and cash consideration of 502 million.
related shareholders' profit is transferred from the income In April 2013, the Group also completed the disposal of statement to the unallocated divisible surplus.
Conversely, if a Aviva Zao, its Russian long-term business subsidiary, for shortfall arises one year, for example because of insufficient consideration of 30 million, as well as completing the sale of investment return, a transfer out of the unallocated divisible surplus its Malaysian joint ventures for cash consideration of 153 finances bonus declarations and related shareholders' profit.
The unallocated divisible surplus consists of future as yet In May 2013, the Group sold its Romania Pensions business undetermined policyholder benefits, associated shareholders' to MetLife Inc. for consideration of 5 million.
profit and the orphan estate.
The orphan estate serves as On 2 October 2013, the Group completed the disposal of its working capital for our with-profits funds.
It affords the withUS life and related internal fund management business to profits funds a degree of freedom to invest a substantial portion Athene Holding Ltd receiving consideration of 1.4 billion.
of the funds' assets in investments yielding higher returns than In November 2013, the Group reached a conditional might otherwise be obtainable without being constrained by the agreement to sell its holding in Eurovita Assicurazioni S. p. A. to need to demonstrate solvency.
JC Flowers, subject to regulatory approval.
Eurovita was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2013.
Other participating business Further details can be found in the section 'IFRS Financial Outside of the UK, most of our long-term operations write statements note 4 Subsidiaries'.
This is predominantly savings or pensions business, where the policyholders receive guaranteed minimum Basis of earnings by line of business investment returns, and additional earnings are shared between Our earnings originate from four main lines of business: our policyholders and shareholders in accordance with local long-term insurance and savings business, which includes a regulatory and policy conditions.
This may also be referred to as range of life insurance and savings products: general insurance, 'with-profits' business.
which focuses on personal and commercial lines: health insurance and fund management, which manages funds on Other long-term insurance and savings business behalf of our long-term insurance and general insurance Non-profit business falls into two categories: investment type businesses, external institutions, pension funds and retail clients.
business and risk cover and annuity business.
These lines of business are present in our various operating Investment type business, which accounts for most of our nonsegments to a greater or lesser extent.
profit business, includes predominantly unit-linked life and In the UK, we have major long-term insurance and savings pensions business where the risk of investing policy assets is borne businesses and general insurance and health businesses: in entirely by the policyholder.
Operating earnings arise from unitEurope we have long-term insurance and savings businesses in linked business when fees charged to policyholders based on the all countries in which we operate, large general insurance value of the policy assets exceed costs of acquiring new business businesses in France, Ireland and Italy, and smaller general and administration costs.
Shareholders bear the risk of investing insurance operations in several other countries and health shareholder capital in support of these operations.
