| 3 312 12 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued jurisdictions in which we operate.
These actions arise in various risks and taxation.
The design of long-term insurance products is contexts, including in connection with our activities as an based on the tax legislation in force at that time.
Changes in tax insurer, securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation may investment manager, investor and taxpayer.
therefore, when applied to such products, have a material Lawsuits and investigations may also arise which could seek adverse effect on the financial condition of the relevant longsignificant or unspecified amounts of damages, including term business fund of the company in which the business was punitive damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities written.
involved in these proceedings have substantial powers over the We may face increased compliance costs as a result of conduct and operations of our business.
legislation passed in the United States Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and The U. S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict requires 30% withholding on payments of U. S. source with any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or dividends, interest, and other fixed payments including, after investigations.
December 31, 2016, payments of gross proceeds made to a In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive non-United States financial institution FFI unless the FFI has general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual entered into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service to or threatened related litigation arising therefrom, including report account information for any of the FFIs U. S. claims in respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
An intergovernmental agreement between the Given the significant delays that are experienced in the U. S. and certain other jurisdictions will allow FFIs in those notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents jurisdictions to report U. S. accountholder information only to that they cover and the uncertainties associated with local revenue authorities, rather than to the IRS.
establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the On 1 September 2013, regulations were introduced in the ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
United Kingdom the Regulations to give effect to the Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our intergovernmental agreement entered into between the United major markets may conduct a review of products previously Kingdom and the United States to improve tax compliance, sold, either as part of an industry-wide review or specific to it.
dated 12 September 2012 the UK-US IGA.
Under the UK-US The result of this review may be to compensate customers for IGA, UK-based financial institutions should not be subject to a losses they have incurred as a result of the products they were 30% withholding on US source income, unless they fail to meet sold.
the requirements set out in the UK-US IGA and the Regulations.
As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other A number of other jurisdictions, in which we operate, have environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended introduced or announced that they intend to introduce similar issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
There can be no assurance as to the nature of such emerging claims and coverage issues include adverse changes in measures, or extensions to existing measures, that may be loss trends, judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact introduced.
of new theories of liability: growth of claims culture: legislative or judicial action that affects policy coverage or interpretation, Changes to IFRS generally or specifically for insurance claim quantification, or pricing: a growing trend of plaintiffs companies may materially adversely affect the reporting of targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class our financial results action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices: Changes to IFRS for insurance companies have been proposed new causes of liability or mass claims: claims in respect of in recent years and further changes may be proposed in the directors and officers coverage, professional indemnity and future.
The International Accounting Standards Board published other liability covers: and climate change-related litigation.
proposals that would introduce significant changes to the All of the above could adversely impact our results of statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare financial operations or financial condition.
The accounting proposals, which are not expected to be finalised until later in 2015 at the earliest From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the with an effective date still to be determined, will change the introduction of new tax legislation may adversely impact our presentation and measurement of insurance contracts, including business.
the effect of technical reserves and reinsurance on the value of We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and insurance contracts.
It is uncertain whether and how the face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation of proposals may affect the Group should they become definitive tax law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply standards.
Current proposals may have an adverse effect on the with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage manner in which we report insurance provisions and, therefore, tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge or a financial identify and report revenues, costs and distributable reserves.
The changes could, therefore, have an adverse effect on our If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax financial performance and condition including through changes costs associated with certain transactions are greater than affecting the calculation of taxation.
These and any other anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
changes to IFRS, that may be proposed in the future, whether or There are also specific rules governing the taxation of not specifically targeted at insurance companies, could policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of materially adversely affect our reported results of operations and future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and their financial position.
pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of new ordinary shares rules, may affect the future long-term business and the The trading price of our ADRs and dividends paid on our decisions of policyholders.
The impact of such changes upon us ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in might depend on the mix of business in-force at the time of the exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
An ADS is a negotiable US security representing ownership in The design of life insurance products by our life insurance one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents companies takes into account a number of factors, including ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 313 313 shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors Deposit Agreement.
ADRs are specifically designed to facilitate the The Deposit Agreement expressly limit our obligations and purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and depositary will be liable if either of us: the securities themselves.
are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation by Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound sterling circumstances beyond our their control: into US dollars may affect the value of our ADRs.
Specifically, as exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit the relative value of the pound sterling against the US dollar Agreement: or declines, each of the following values will also decline: take any action based upon the advice of, or information the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price of from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which may ordinary shares for deposit, any person in whose name the consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the US to ADSs are registered on the books of the depository, any also decline: person or entity having a beneficial interest deriving from the the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of ownership of ADRs, or any other person believed by us or the our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our depositary in good faith to be competent to give such advice ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and or information.
the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, ADR holders and any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs ordinary shareholders in the enlarged Group may earn a which may involve it in expense or liability only if it is negative or no return on their investment in the Company.
These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, the Companys results limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we of operations and financial condition will be dependent on the or the depositary fail to meet our obligations under the Deposit trading performance of the members of the enlarged Group.
Agreement or if they wish to involve us or the depositary in a There can be no assurance that the Company will pay dividends legal proceeding.
Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of the Board and will The holders of our ADRs in the US may not be able to depend on, among other things, applicable law, regulation, participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities to holders of our ordinary shares on the same restrictions, the Companys and the enlarged Groups financial terms and conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
position, regulatory capital requirements, working capital In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to requirements, finance costs, general economic conditions and the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends other factors the Directors deem significant from time to time.
payable, in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit The ability of the enlarged Group to pay dividends on the Agreement provides that the depositary after consultation with ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group will be us shall have discretion as to the procedure to be followed in dependent upon the availability of distributable reserves and making such rights or other securities available to ADR holders, therefore, amongst other things, upon receipt by it of dividends including disposing of such rights or other securities and and other distributions of value from its subsidiaries and distributing the net proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
companies in which it has an investment.
Given the significant number of our ADR holders in the US, we The issue of additional shares in the Company in connection generally would be required to register with the SEC any public with the Proposed Acquisition or future acquisitions, any offering of rights, warrants or other securities made to our ADR share incentive or share option plan or otherwise may dilute holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements all other holdings.
of the US securities laws is available.
Registering such an The enlarged Group is issuing ordinary shares of the Company offering with the SEC can be a lengthy process which may be in connection with the Proposed Acquisition and may seek to inconsistent with the timetable for a global capital raising raise financing to fund future acquisitions and other growth operation.
Consequently, we have in the past elected and may opportunities.
The Company may, for these and other purposes, in the future elect not to make such an offer in the US, such as in connection with share incentive and share option including to our ADR holders in the US, and rather only conduct plans, issue additional equity or convertible equity securities.
As such an offering in an offshore transaction in accordance with a result, the Companys existing shareholders and ADR holders Regulation S under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended would suffer dilution in their percentage ownership.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that our ADR holders will be able to participate in such an offering in The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their the same manner as our ordinary shareholders.
voting rights due to delays in notification to, and by, the depositary.
The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their shares.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the Deposit Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have limited or no recourse against the depositary or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request.
| 3 314 14 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued The ADR and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may As a foreign private issuer in the US we are exempt from continue to be volatile.
certain rules under the US securities laws and are permitted The share price of our ADRs and ordinary shares has been to file less information with the SEC than US companies.
As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules volatile in the past and the share price and trading volume of our ADRs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfill the profit expectations of procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortswing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange financial institutions.
Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general: we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US investor perceptions of the success and impact of our strategies: companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
Although we must comply with UK Listing Rules on sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and fund management activities: insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information the operations, accounting practices or regulatory investigations, and share price performance of other concerning us than there is for US public companies.
companies in the insurance and fund management markets in Aviva plc is an English company and it may be difficult to which we operates: and enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive conjecture about our business in the press, media or officers.
Aviva plc is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales strategic actions by competitors, including acquisitions and or and our business is based in the UK.
In addition, certain of our restructurings: directors and officers reside outside the US, and a substantial changes in market conditions and regulatory changes in any portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located number of countries, whether or not the Company derives in jurisdictions outside the US.
As such, it may be difficult or significant revenue therefrom: and impossible to effect service of process within the US upon us or shifts in macro-economic or geopolitical conditions generally.
those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of US courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability If the Proposed Acquisition is completed, the value of the provisions of the US federal securities laws.
ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group may fluctuate significantly as a result of a large number of factors, including, Shareholder rights under English law differ from the US.
but not limited to, those referred to above, as well as period-toIndividual shareholders of an English company including US period variations in operating results or change in revenue or persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuit on profit estimates by the Company, industry participants or behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on financial analysts.
their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuit Substantial future sales of ordinary shares of the enlarged by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
Group, if the Proposed Acquisition is completed, could impact their market price.
The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group, or the availability of ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group for future sale, if the Proposed Acquisition is completed, will have on the market price of the ordinary shares of the enlarged Group.
Sales of substantial amounts of ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group in the public market following the Proposed Acquisition, if completed, or the perception or any announcement that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the ordinary shares of the enlarged Group and may make it more difficult for investors to sell their ordinary shares or ADRs of the enlarged Group at a time and price which they deem appropriate, or at all.
