Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 263 63 Information on the Company Digital First History and development of Aviva This is how Aviva is capitalising on being a composite insurer.
General It is how customers increasingly want to do business with Aviva plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws Aviva.
If there is a choice of where to invest, it will be digital of England and Wales, is the holding company of the Aviva first across any channel.
The Group provides customers with long-term insurance Not everywhere and savings, general and health insurance, and fund Aviva is not interested in geographic regions but individual management products and services.
Our purpose is to free markets where it has scale and profitability or a distinct people from fear of uncertainty, in a rapidly changing world.
It will focus on markets, like the The long-term strategic framework for Aviva is based on our United Kingdom, where it believes it will win.
investment thesis of cash flow plus growth.
Our history Our business The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Overview Norwich Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed Our business operates across four main market sectors - life CGNU plc on completion of the merger, and subsequently insurance and savings: general insurance, health insurance and renamed Aviva plc on 1 July 2002.
CGU plc and Norwich Union fund management, providing services to over 29 million plc were both major UK-based insurers operating in the longcustomers worldwide.
We operate in 16 different countries and term insurance business and general insurance markets.
companies had long corporate histories.
The Group's operating segments are determined along CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of market reporting lines.
The operating segments are: UK & Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
General Ireland: France: Poland: Italy, Spain and Other: Canada: Asia: Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Commercial Union was and Aviva Investors.
These reflect the management structure incorporated in 1861 and in 1905 acquired Hand in Hand, whereby a member of the Executive Management team is which was incorporated in 1696. accountable to the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO for the Norwich Union plc was founded as a mutual society in 1797, operating segment for which they are responsible.
Due to the and had expanded as a global business by the 20th century.
In size of the UK & Ireland segment, it has been split into separate 1997 it demutualised and became an English public limited life and general insurance segments, which undertake long-term company.
insurance and savings business and general insurance On 2 December 2014 Aviva plc and Friends Life Group respectively.
Aviva Investors, our fund management business, Limited Friends Life announced they had reached agreement operates across most markets providing fund-management on the terms of a recommended all share acquisition of Friends services to third-party investors and to our long-term insurance Life by Aviva plc.
The proposed acquisition is subject to a businesses and general insurance operations.
number of conditions including approval from shareholders at a In October 2013 the Group completed the sale of its United general meeting on 26 March 2015.
If the conditions to the States life, savings and related internal fund management proposed transaction are satisfied, it is expected to complete in business, which has been classified as a discontinued operation the second quarter of 2015. for the purposes of reporting financial performance.
During 2014 the Group has undertaken a number of disposals as we have continued the process of streamlining our Life insurance and savings business business.
Further details of these can be found in the section Long-term insurance and savings business accounted for 'IFRS Financial statements - note 4 - Subsidiaries'.
approximately 78% of our total worldwide sales from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2014. Business overview We reported total long-term insurance and savings new Our aims and strategy 1 business sales from continuing operations of 27.1 billion.
Aviva has a focused, clear, simple and differentiated business strategy.
In 2013, we set out our new purpose and values and Market position 2 the theses that shape how we work and our priorities.
These In the UK we have a market share of 9.6 % based on annual were defined as: premium equivalent APE as at 30 September 2014.
We also Investment thesis - cash flow plus growth for investors have life insurance businesses in Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, Customer thesis - simplicity and convenience for our Poland, Turkey and Asia.
Further details of our position in each customers, which we called simplicity your way market are set out in the market sections below.
Distribution thesis - ownership, diversity, and digital priorities Brands and products for distribution We have operated under the Aviva brand globally since 2010.
People thesis - achievement, potential and collaboration for Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a our people broad range of life insurance and savings products.
Our products are split into the following categories: Our thinking was encapsulated in our Strategic Framework.
This Pensions is a means of providing income in retirement for an framework has helped provide clear direction for turning around individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our Strategic Anchor builds on this framework to products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder provide a clear statement of our business strategy to help us pensions and income drawdown.
make decisions to compete in our rapidly evolving world.
It Annuities is a type of policy that pays out regular amounts comprises the what we do, how we do it and where we do it of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a of our business strategy.
person's lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future Avivas long-term strategic anchor has three elements: date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an individual True Customer Composite and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase basis for Aviva is the only composite of scale in the United Kingdom groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset accumulation and one of the few in the world that can offer a full range of contracts, which may be used to provide benefits in insurance and asset management products, underpinned by retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked or indexone of the most recognised insurance brands in the United linked.
1 See financial and operating performance for further details.
2 Association of British Insurers ABI Stats published Q3 2014.
| 2 264 64 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Information on the Company continued Protection is an insurance contract that protects the Brands and products Aviva Investors operates under a single brand across the policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term majority of the Aviva Groups markets.
Its products cover a broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, this includes openassurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and critical illness cover.
ended collective investment schemes which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg Bonds and savings are accumulation products with single or regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment and Poland: while in the United Kingdom, this includes segregated mandates and specialist funds for pension schemes, returns.
Our product ranges include single premium investment bonds and regular premium savings plans.
local authorities and insurance companies, as well as retail and wholesale products.
Other offerings include specialist property Investment sales comprise retail sales of mutual fund type products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs funds and money market funds.
and open ended investment companies OEICs.
Distribution Customers can buy our products through a range of distribution Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary participation feature, which is a contractual right channels, including: Direct In many of our markets, customers can buy our to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
products over the telephone or via the internet.
This method of distribution is most commonly available for simple, low cost General insurance and health insurance products which do not require advice.
General insurance and health insurance accounted for 22% of Direct sales force - In some of our European and Asian our total worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December markets we operate direct sales forces that only sell Aviva's 2014.
In the year ended 31 December 2014, we reported products and the sales forces receive commission on the general and health insurance net written premiums of 8.3 products they sell.
Intermediaries - We offer a range of long-term insurance, savings, retirement, general insurance and health insurance Market position products which can be bought through an intermediary, such We are a leading general insurer in the United Kingdom and as an independent financial adviser or an insurance broker.
3 4 Canada with 10.5% and 7.8% market share respectively.
We Intermediaries receive a commission on sales of Aviva's also have general insurance operations in France, Italy, Ireland, products.
We sell health products in the UK, Ireland, France, Corporate partnerships, bancassurance and joint ventures - Singapore and Indonesia.
In the year ended 31 December 2014, Aviva is a corporate partner for many organisations, including 50% of our total general insurance and health new business banks and other financial institutions, who wish to offer their was written in the UK.
We have various distribution agreements with bancassurance partners and joint ventures Brands and products across the markets in which we operate.
In return for offering Our general insurance business operates under the Aviva brand our products to their customers, the bank or joint venture globally and concentrates on the following products: partners receive a commission as a percentage of sales and in Personal lines - motor, household, travel and creditor: some cases achieve extra commission if agreed target levels of Commercial lines - fleet, liability and commercial property sales are met.
Certain agreements have a profit sharing insurance: element based on a predetermined percentage.
In some cases, Health insurance - private health insurance, income protection if the agreed targets are not met, certain terms of the contract and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of can be renegotiated.
Under the joint venture agreements, the corporate healthcare products: and cost of running the venture are often split between the Corporate and specialty risks - products for large clients or partners.
where the risk is specialised.
Further details of the distribution channels specific to each Fund management market are included in the following market analysis.
Aviva Investors, our fund management business, provides fund management services to Aviva's long-term insurance and UK & Ireland Life savings, and general insurance operations as well as to thirdBusiness overview and strategy party investors.
The fund management operations are in the UK, The UK and Irish businesses are managed under a single Europe, Asia and North America.
All sales of retail fund management structure and work is progressing to leverage the management products are included in our long-term insurance scale and expertise that we believe exists in the UK to benefit and savings business sales.
The sale of the Aviva Groups U. S. based boutique asset The UK business is a leading long-term insurance and management company, River Road Asset Management LLC, was 2, savings provider with an overall market share of 9.6% based announced in March 2014 and completed on 30 June 2014. on annual premium equivalent APE data as at 30 September 2014.
The Irish business is a large life and pensions provider in Market position 5 Ireland.
Aviva Investors was ranked 46th globally by assets under Our strategy in the UK is to continue to improve cash management.
Total worldwide funds managed by Aviva generation and deliver profitable growth.
We will exploit what Investors at 31 December 2014 was 246 billion.
The we believe is our market leading expertise in specific areas of substantial majority of this relates to Aviva's insurance and the market which include Retirement, Corporate Benefits for savings operations.
SME businesses, Protection and Health.
In addition, we are managing our back book to deliver good service for customers and increased value for our shareholders.
Our Irish long-term business is now focused primarily on distribution through intermediaries.
On the 1st January 2015, following approval from the High Court of Ireland in December 2014, the Irish business, previously within Aviva Life and 3 Datamonitor UK Insurance Competitor Analytics 2014.
4 Market Security Analysis & Research Inc, 2013 online database.
5 Towers Watson World 500 largest asset managers study 2013.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 265 65 Pensions Ireland Ltd was transferred to Aviva Life and Pensions UK & Ireland General Insurance UK Ltd UKLAP becoming a branch of UKLAP.
Business overview and strategy The UK and Irish businesses are managed under a single Market and competition management structure and work is progressing to leverage the Over the last few years, the Retail Distribution Review and Autoscale and expertise that we believe exists in the UK to benefit Enrolment have transformed the way that long-term savings the Irish business.
products are bought and sold.
We are a leading general insurer in both the UK and Ireland The changes to annuities announced by the UK Chancellor 3 6 with market shares of 10.5% and 13.3% respectively.
We of the Exchequer in the Budget in March 2014 are intended to employ around 7,000 people and operate from a number of give increased flexibility as to how customers can access their locations throughout the UK and Ireland, including Norwich, pension from April 2015.
These changes are having a significant Perth, Glasgow, London and Dublin.
impact across the market and have seen many customers defer We focus on personal and commercial insurance.
In the UK their decision regarding their pension, exacerbating the general 3 we hold top three positions in the motor and property markets.
market decline for individual annuities.
We believe our key strengths include underwriting and pricing In addition, The Department of Work and Pensions DWP sophistication, claims and cost management and excellent announced a charge cap of 75 basis points from April 2015, customer service.
Our aim is to deliver cash and profitable plus the removal of active member discounts AMDs from April growth by focussing on the fundamentals of the insurance 2016.
We implemented these changes in 2014, ahead of the business to maximise underwriting returns and we have a regulatory requirement.
portfolio strategy to deliver greater stability of earnings.
The UK long-term savings market is highly competitive and we consider our main competitors to be Standard Life, Market and competition Prudential, Legal & General, Scottish Widows, Just Retirement The UK is the 5th largest non-life insurance market in the and Royal London.
In 2013, the top four companies had a 31.4% share of The growth in the life and pensions market in Ireland was the general insurance market.
evident in 2013 and has continued into 2014.
The life insurance The UK and Ireland general insurance markets are cyclical in market in Ireland is relatively concentrated.
We consider our nature and remain very competitive, particularly in personal main competitors to be Bank of Ireland Life, Irish Life, Zurich Life lines, where the market is highly commoditised.
Following significant premium rate increases in recent years in response to rising claims costs and frequencies, the UK Products personal motor market has continued to see rate reductions in In the UK, we provide a comprehensive product range focused 2014 reflecting intense competition and regulatory change.
on both the consumer and corporate markets.
The pensions and Challenging economic conditions also apply to other UK classes 'at retirement' products we offer include personal pensions, of business, although there are some signs of rates hardening in equity release, annuities and income drawdown.
Our annuity the commercial market.
In Ireland, the market remains offerings include immediate life, enhanced, fixed-term annuities challenging, reflecting the economic downturn, increased and with-profits pension annuities.
We provide a number of 6 competition and market contraction of 6% in 2013. traditional life insurance products, including level-term, In the UK our main competitors are Direct Line Group, RSA, decreasing-term with or without critical illness, guaranteed The Admiral Group, AXA, Zurich, LV, Allianz and Ageas.
In whole life insurance, and guaranteed lifelong protection plans.
Ireland, our competitors include RSA, AXA, Zurich, FBD, Allianz Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment and Liberty.
bonds, funds, base rate trackers, investments with guarantees and with-profits products.
Products In Ireland, our long-term insurance and savings business We provide a wide range of general insurance products both in offers a wide range of products with our focus being on the UK and Ireland.
In the UK we have a business mix of protection, annuities and a focused set of accumulation approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
Our protection products include life insurance, Our UK personal products include motor, home and travel mortgage protection, specified illness and guaranteed and insurance.
Our UK commercial products include motor, property whole life cover products.
The pension range covers retirement and liability insurance for small and medium size enterprises and investment products including open market annuities, SMEs and the larger UK Corporate and Specialty Risks market.
enhanced annuities and government personal retirement In Ireland our products include property, motor, travel, savings accounts PRSA schemes.
agricultural and business insurance and our health insurance business provides products for both the personal and Distribution commercial sector.
We have a multi-distribution strategy, which means we sell our products through intermediaries, corporate partners, in the Distribution workplace, and directly to customers.
We are a leading provider We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products are 2 in the UK intermediary market with 10.7% share.
The direct to sold directly to customers over the phone and through our consumer platform is due to be launched in early 2015, offering websites, via brokers and through corporate partnerships.
Our new retirement propositions and investment products.
Quotemehappy and General Accident insurance products are In the UK, we have exclusive distribution deals for the sale of also available through price comparison websites.
For protection products with Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, commercial insurance, we focus on broker distribution and Santander, Tesco and the Post Office.
believe that independent brokers remain the best source of We remain committed to building on our existing advice for business customers.
relationships and distribution partnerships as well as to growing our workplace and direct channels.
6 Irish Insurance Federation, 2013 7 Swiss Re Sigma Study World Insurance 2013 | 2 266 66 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Information on the Company continued France Poland Business overview and strategy Business overview and strategy 7 France is the second largest insurance market in Europe.
We As at 30 September 2014, our Polish life operation is the fourth have a significant presence in the French Life insurance market largest life insurer in Poland, with a market share of 7% based on 9 and we operate through two main companies: Aviva Vie and gross written premium.
Our general insurance business is the Antarius JV structure with Crdit Du Nord.
On 25 February fourteenth largest with a market share of 1% on the same basis.
2015, Crdit du Nord, the Group's partner in Antarius S. A Our focus in Poland is to grow the value of new business and in Antarius, exercised its call option to purchase Aviva Frances general insurance we aim to grow our portfolio while maintaining 50% share of Antarius.
In accordance with the shareholders portfolio quality and combined operating ratio level.
agreement, the exercise of the call option starts a period of approximately two years to complete the disposal.
In Market and competition The Polish market for protection products has seen significant accordance with IFRS 5, the subsidiary will be classified as Held for Sale from the date when the transaction is expected to growth since 1999, although penetration rates remain relatively low according to KNF statistics.
We expect the insurance market complete within 12 months.
We are ranked 10th in general insurance as measured by in Poland to continue to grow as its economy matures.
In December 2013, the Polish parliament passed a new gross written premiums according to LArgus fide lAssurance as at 31 December 2013.
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable Pension Act following the government review of the Pillar II Pensions System which came in force in February 2014.
This Act dividends to Group by increasing profitability in our life business and targeted growth in profitable general insurance segments.
gave the state-run pension system a prominent role in managing the country's pension funds and has significant Market and competition implications for the private pension providers which include a The life insurance market is driven by individual savings and decrease in assets under management and lower contributions dominated by bancassurance, which has accounted for around received from pension fund members.
Our pension business 8 9 60% of the life insurance market over the past decade.
We remains second largest in the Polish market.
believe that customer confidence in financial markets has been affected but that over a longer period, multi-funds policies and Products unit-linked funds are the best insurance vehicles for Our life business in Poland provides a broad range of unitperformance.
We believe the long-term insurance and savings linked, annuities, bonds and savings products and health market in France has longer-term growth potential due to the insurance.
For institutions we offer group life insurance and ageing population and the growing need for private pensions.
employee pension programmes, which are both unit-linked The general insurance market in France is mature and highly products.
We offer a standard product as part of our privately competitive.
For several years, price competition was high as managed Pillar II pensions business.
We offer general insurance insurers sought market share, particularly in the personal lines products to both commercial entities and individuals.
During the last couple of years, we believe the market individuals we offer home, accident and travel insurance, which has entered a phase of price increases that currently makes up are primarily sold by tied agents, as well as motor insurance, the majority of its marginal growth.
which is sold primarily through our direct operation.
For institutions we offer selected commercial lines risks.
Products We provide a wide range of insurance solutions: life and longDistribution term savings, general insurance and asset management through The direct sales force and bancassurance are the main Aviva Investors France.
The products sold through our life distribution channels for most of the Polish group and is made channel are long-term savings, pensions and regular premium up of over 2,000 tied insurance agents.
Our biggest relationship products, with a focus on the unit-linked market and a broad is with Bank Zachodni WBK a subsidiary of Banco Santander range of protection products, primarily for individuals.
that sells both life and general insurance products through the We have a longstanding relationship with the Association 10 bank's network of over 800 branches.
We also co-operate Franaise d'Epargne et fide Retraite AFER which is the largest with independent insurance agencies and brokers.
Our mutual retirement savings association in France with over 700,000 funds are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual members as at December 2013, to manufacture and distribute products are supported by call centre and website sales.
In the general insurance market our product range includes Italy, Spain and Other household, motor, health and legal protection products and also Italy a range of insurance products for small to medium sized Business overview and strategy entities, farms, craftsmen and tradesmen, and specific products We are Italy's 10th largest life insurer, with a market share of for building firms and motor fleets.
"11 2.99% based on 2013 premiums excluding Eurovita Assicurazioni S. p. A ""Eurovita"" and the 12th largest general Distribution 11 insurance company with a market share of 1.37%."
We have We have developed a multi-distribution model combining retail, approximately 2.2 million customers across both the Life and direct and bancassurance networks through owned distribution 11 12 General Insurance businesses.
In Protection, we have11% channels, independent networks and partnerships.
network sell through 900 tied agents, a direct sales force made up a direct sales force made up of approximately 1,100 Union During 2014 we continued with our transformation plan in Financiere fide France UFF consultants and direct advisors Aviva order to: France also holds a majority stake in UFF, and through brokers in Transform the operating and business model: the life, health and construction markets.
Direct distribution is Improve the product pricing and mix as well as combined managed through the Eurofil brand for personal general insurance, operating ratio: and the Aviva Direct brand for protection and Epargne Actuelle for the Rationalise the group structure and capital employed.
We operate in the bancassurance market through our partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary of Socit Gnrale, selling life, savings and protection products.
9 Polish Financial Supervision Authority KNF 10 BZ WBK Bank Zachodni 3Q14 results 11 Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA 12 Istituto per la Vigilanza sulle Assicurazioni IVASS 8 Fdration Franaise des Socits d'Assurance.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 267 267 During 2014 Aviva Italy restructured its joint venture relationship with our partners to capitalise on this whilst arrangements with UBI Banca and UniCredit.
In addition, the developing our retail agents and broker distribution network.
respective distribution agreements with UBI and Unicredit have Products been renegotiated to 2020.
In November 2013, Aviva We offer a wide range of bonds, savings, and protection announced a conditional agreement to sell its entire 39% stake products.
Investment products include both unit linked and in Eurovita to JC Flowers.
The sale completed on 30 June 2014. traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to increase the policy return.
Our traditional plans include savings Market and competition schemes and income products.
Pension savings products have The Italian life market is dominated by the top 10 providers valuable tax advantages.
We offer a flexible range of individual which represented around 82% of the total market share in 11 and group pension plans with alternative investment choices.
The life insurance industry in Italy reported an increase We also offer protection products, covering both mortgages in volumes as of 30 June 2014, with gross written premiums up 11 and credit loans, typically providing cover for the family.
by 24% compared to the same period in 2013.
The general insurance segment decreased by 3.70% in the same period, Distribution 11 mainly driven by a 7% decline in Motor.
Through bancassurance partnerships we have established subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks as Products set out below: Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001 range of products covering protection, bonds and savings and Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa since 2001 pensions.
In 2014 we continued to focus on less capital Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja Granada since 2002 intensive products, with only zero minimum guarantee rate new Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia since 2007 products sold since July 2014.
We have reviewed our unit-linked product range, and further improved our protection offering.
Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through Our general insurance business in Italy mainly provides professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and motor and home insurance products to individuals, as well as brokers, supported by a branch office network and call centres, commercial risk insurance to small businesses.
Distribution Other Our products are distributed through bancassurance The Italy, Spain, and Other segment includes our business in partnerships with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Group and Turkey.
Unione di Banche Italiane UBI.
These partnerships give us Aviva's business in Turkey sells life and savings products access to more than 3,500 branches.
In addition, we also have including unit-linked pensions through its life joint venture, approximately 1,500 active financial advisers, and 600 insurance AvivaSA, which is one of Turkey's largest private life and multi-mandate agents and brokers as at 30 June 2014. pensions providers.
The general insurance operations in Turkey Spain were sold on 18 December 2014. Business overview and strategy Aviva announced in September 2014 its intention to offer to th We are Spain's 6 largest long-term insurer by gross written the public market a minority stake in AvivaSA and on 10 premiums with a market share of 5% as at 30 September November 2014, Aviva announced the closing of the initial 13 2014.
We sell protection, long-term savings and pensions, public offering of ordinary shares of Aviva S. A.
"The Company health and accident insurance through a bancassurance listed as ""AVISA"" on Borsa Istanbul from 13 November 2014. network based on joint ventures with four banks."
We also sell Separately, AvivaSA and Akbank agreed to extend their through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, the wholly-owned Aviva exclusive 15 year bancassurance agreement for another seven branded long-term insurance company and through our Spanish years, until 2029.
Akbank will continue to sell AvivaSA's life and mutual insurance company Pelayo.
pensions products on an exclusive basis through its leading During 2014, we announced the sale of our holding in our banking network in Turkey.
joint venture CxG Aviva to Novacaixagalicia Banco.
The transaction completed on 11 December 2014.
Canada Our strategy is to maintain the franchise value in Spain and Business overview and strategy to further develop our retail operations with new distribution 4 We are Canadas 2nd largest general insurer.
The ongoing focus in on less capital intensive distribution partners we provide a range of personal and products.
commercial lines general insurance products to nearly two million policyholders.
We have a 7.8% market share and a top Market and competition 4 five position in all major provinces.
We employ approximately The Spanish market is significantly affected by the current 3,500 people and operate from a head office in Toronto, with economic climate and the financial sector continues to be under other offices located throughout Canada.
pressure as a result of the ongoing banking restructuring We believe that we are well placed for continued growth process and mergers taking place.
Any opportunities arising and that our success is underpinned by our strategic priorities: from these will be considered on their merits.
In relation to Continuing to focus and deliver on the insurance distribution agreements with bancassurance partners, we are fundamentals of pricing, risk selection, distribution, claims protected financially within our contracts with Spain's savings indemnity and expense management: banks the cajas from any detrimental effect arising from these Broadening our distribution reach and strengthening our mergers.
business mix: The top positions in the long-term life insurance market are Building a 'Digital First' mindset across all aspects of our dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with business: and the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than Better engaging all of our people in embedding our culture 69% of gross written premiums at the end of 2013 in the and values.
Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice We believe the transformation of our personal lines business through banking channels, and we continue to use our over the last few years has ensured the business is highly competitive.
We expect that continued refinement to our 13 Investigacin Co-operativa entre Entidades Asegurados y Fordos fide Pensionies ICEA | 2 268 68 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Information on the Company continued models will allow us to leverage this position to positively react In Indonesia, we signed an agreement in January 2014 to form to market opportunities.
We will continue to address increasing a 50% joint venture with PT Astra International Tbk which customer demand for choice, simplicity and self-service by completed in May 2014.
As part of this agreement, we entered working with our broker partners on processes and technology into a bancassurance distribution arrangement with Permata solutions in order to help them compete with other channels.
Bank which was launched in December 2014.
In Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary operates Market and competition through the bancassurance, IFA, and agency channels, with a 7 Canada is the 8th largest non-life insurance market in the focus on Bancassurance through its preferred relationship with world and is established and stable.
The four largest provinces DBS Bank.
generate around 85% of total premiums with Ontario, the In Taiwan and Vietnam, through our joint ventures with First 4 largest, representing 40% of total Canadian premiums.
Financial Holding and VietinBank, respectively, we aim to grow The Canadian general insurance industry is highly our bancassurance businesses and diversify our distribution fragmented with many small players and no dominant networks over the next few years.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top In India, with a distribution network of 121 branches, we five companies representing 40% of the market and the top operate in partnership with the Dabur Group through a 26% two companies, Intact Financial and Aviva, controlling 23% of interest in Aviva Life Insurance Company India Ltd. As at 31 4 the market.
The rest of the industry includes several national October 2014, we ranked 9th among the private life insurance carriers as well as smaller, provincially based or niche companies in India based on Total APE including Group 17 companies.
Whilst direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing in During 2014 we completed the disposal of our South market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for 66% Korean business.
In addition to the growth of direct and affinity channels, insurance carriers are increasingly supporting and Market and competition controlling distribution through investment in brokers.
The Asian markets are strategically important to Aviva, owing to large populations in fast-growing economies, coupled with Products relatively low insurance penetration rates and social coverage.
The general insurance products that we provide through our Life insurance penetration as measured by insurance premium Canadian companies are: as a proportion of GDP in most Asian countries is typically less Personal, home and motor insurance: than 5% 1.6% in China and Indonesia, 0.6% in Vietnam, and Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, 7 4.4% in Singapore.
including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, and The Asian markets are expected to deliver GDP growth of surety: and 18 6.4% in 2015, ranging from 3% in Singapore to 7% in Niche personal insurance products including holiday and park 19 China.
model trailers, hobby farms, boats as well as antique, classic and custom cars.
Products Our Asian businesses offer a wide range of protection, savings, Distribution and pension products, including universal life, participating and We operate in Canada through a distribution network focused non-participating endowments, unit-linked single and regular on approximately 1,600 independent group and retail brokers premium life insurance, other savings and pensions products, who distribute our core personal and commercial line products.
and a range of accident and health insurance products.
In addition, we work closely with both independent and wholly owned specialty brokers to distribute specialty personal line Distribution products.
Across Asia, we operate a multi-distribution strategy.
In Singapore, we have a core bancassurance relationship with DBS Asia Bank and also own a majority interest in PIAS, a leading financial advisory firm.
In China, our products are sold mainly Business overview and strategy through telemarketing, bancassurance, and agents.
In In Asia, we are focused on growth in China and South East Asia.
Indonesia, group business is sold through our direct sales force Increasing the value of our new business remains our first and individual business is primarily sold through our priority in Asia.
We are achieving this through scale benefits and bancassurance channel.
In Taiwan and Vietnam, bancassurance by focusing our product mix on higher margin products.
is the main distribution channel.
We are also investing in other In Singapore, our life business is a leading insurer in the 14 channels such as direct marketing and digital to differentiate market, providing employee benefit and individual life ourselves from competitors.
insurance through diversified distribution channels.
We also have general insurance operations in Singapore and are Aviva Investors considered the market leader in online personal motor 15 insurance.
Business overview and strategy In China, through our 50% joint venture with COFCO Aviva Investors offers a range of fund management services, Group, we are ranked number 7 among 27 foreign life insurers operating in the UK, Europe, North America and Asia and had 16 in terms of APE as at 30 September 2014.
We have a presence 246 billion in assets under management as at 31 December in 12 provinces and over 50 branches.
We operate a multi- 2014 31 December 2013: 241 billion.
distribution platform including agency, bancassurance, direct Our largest clients are the long-term insurance, savings, and marketing, and brokerage channels offering a wide range of general insurance businesses of Aviva, to whom we provide protection and savings products.
bespoke asset management services across a broad spectrum of asset classes.
We provide external clients with bespoke segregated solutions or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our principal target clients for the larger segregated solutions tend 14 Latest available competitor results 30 June 2014 17 http: www.
in ADMINCMS cms frmGeneral List.
8 15 The General Insurance Association of Singapore 18 Asian Development Bank, Asian Development Outlook 2014 update 16 APE data released by National Insurance Industry Communication Club 19 IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2014 Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 269 69 to be large pension funds and financial institutions such as insurance companies and banks.
During 2014 we sold our holding in US equity manager River Road Asset Management, LLC River Road.
Our strategy is to offer a range of investment propositions that deliver outcomes that our clients value.
Our key objectives are to significantly improve profitability by focusing on capabilities and propositions that build on our heritage in managing long-term savings.
Market and competition At the end of 2013, the global asset management market stood at circa USD$69 trillion in size, almost half of which was 20 accounted for by North America, and nearly a third by Europe.
The global market is highly fragmented, with the top ten managers accounting for around a third of the total assets, and hundreds of other managers accounting for the remainder.
As such, the dynamics in all large markets are highly competitive.
Aviva Investors is ranked 46th in The Worlds 500 Largest Asset 5 Managers.
Our main competitors are large global asset managers, in addition to other UK and European insurer-owned asset managers with whom we compete on a product by product basis.
Products Our products cover a broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, we have a range of open-ended collective investment schemes which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg and Poland.
These funds have different share classes depending on the size and type of investor.
Our traditional distribution model for these funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and small to mid-size institutional investors.
In the UK, we largely sell segregated mandates and specialist funds to pension schemes, local authorities and insurance companies.
We also supply products to the retail and wholesale markets, principally through UK domiciled equity, bond and real estate funds.
In addition, we have a range of pooled pension funds which are aimed at the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are normally defined benefit schemes and tend to be advised by investment consultants.
In 2014 Aviva Investors launched two funds in its MultiStrategy range as part of a focus to deliver outcome oriented solutions that aim to meet the identified financial goals of investors.
We also have a range of specialist property funds and six money market funds, domiciled in Ireland and France.
Distribution Aviva Investors has a Global Business Development team based in 15 locations with clients around the world.
We manage relationships with a diverse range of clients including corporate and public sector pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, financial institutions, charities, insurance companies, wealth managers and national and local government bodies.
Our distribution model for our open-ended collective investment schemes focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and small to mid-size institutional investors.
In the UK, our retail products are promoted to investors via independent financial advisors, fund platforms, fund supermarkets and discretionary asset managers.
Our property funds are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and our money market funds are sold by a specialist sales team and target corporate treasury functions.
20 Boston Consulting Group, Global Asset Management 2014
