Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
2015 financial calendar Aviva General Meeting in respect of the proposed Acquisition of Friends Life 11am on 26 March 2015 Annual General Meeting 11am on 29 April 2015 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 7 May 2015 The full financial calendar will be available at www.
com investor-relations financial-calendar 2014 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date ordinary 8 April 2015 Record date ordinary and ADR 9 April 2015 Last day for Dividend Reinvestment Plan election 23 April 2015 Dividend payment date 15 May 2015 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
The ex-dividend date for ADR holders will be 7 April 2015.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid in May and The 2015 AGM will be held at The QEII Centre, Broad November please see the table above for the key dates in Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Wednesday, 29 respect of the 2014 final dividend.
Dividends on preference shares are normally paid in March, Details of each resolution to be considered at the meeting are June, September and December - please visit provided in the Notice of AGM, which is available on the www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend Companys website at www.
Shareholders can vote electronically at Holders of ordinary and preference shares will receive any www.
co. uk eproxy, in person by attending the dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs will receive meeting, or by completing and returning the relevant voting any dividends payable in US dollars.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which The voting results for the 2015 AGM will be accessible on the provides the option for eligible shareholders to reinvest their Companys website at www.
com agm shortly after the cash dividend in additional ordinary shares in the Company.
For further information please visit www.
If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to ask the Completed application forms must be sent to the Companys directors a question in connection with the business of the Registrar, Computershare, by no later than 5pm on 23 April meeting, please e-mail the group company secretary at 2015. aviva.
Direct credit of dividend payments AGM voting instructions If you would like to have your cash dividends paid directly into Completed proxy instructions must be submitted to the your bank or building society account, or to have your Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC dividends reinvested please visit www.
com dividends for Computershare, to arrive by no later than: more information or contact Computershare using the contact Monday, 27 April 2015 at 11am for ordinary shareholders: details overleaf.
and Friday, 24 April 2015 at 11am for members of the Aviva Share Overseas global dividend service Account and participants in the Vested Share Account and the The Global Payments Service provided by Computershare Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
enables shareholders living overseas to elect to receive their ADR holders should submit instructions to Citibank, N. A. the dividends in a choice of over 65 international currencies.
For Depositary, by no later than 10am on Thursday, 23 April further details and fees for this service please visit 2015. www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Payments tab, followed by Global Payment Service.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 319 319 Contact details Manage your holdings online Ordinary and preference shares Computershare You can view and manage your shareholding online at: For any queries regarding your shareholding, or to advise of www.
To log in you will require your changes to your personal details, please contact the Companys 11 digit Shareholder Reference Number SRN, which you Registrar, Computershare: will find on your proxy or voting card, latest dividend stationery, or any share certificate issued since 4 July 2011.
By telephone: 0871 495 0105 Please help us to be environmentally friendly and elect Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, to receive electronic communications by registering your Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
email address online, or by contacting Computershare Please call 44 117 378 8361 if calling from outside the UK.
co. uk Useful links for shareholders In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC Online shareholder services centre The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ www.
com shareholderservices American Depositary Receipts ADRs Citibank Dividend information for ordinary shares For any queries regarding Aviva ADRs, please contact Citibank www.
com dividends Shareholder Services Citibank : Annual General Meeting information and electronic voting By telephone: 1 877 248 4237 1 877-CITI-ADR, or www.
com agm 1 781 575 4555 if you are calling from outside the US.
co. uk eproxy Lines are open from 8.30am to 6pm, Monday to Friday US Eastern Standard Time.
com shareprice By email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com adr In writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077 Aviva preference shareholders USA www.
com preferenceshares Please visit www.
com dr for further information about Aviva preference share price Avivas ADR programme.
com Group company secretary Aviva reports information Shareholders may contact the group company secretary as www.
com reports follows: By email: aviva.
com Form 20-F Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the United States of America In writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary, and is subject to certain reporting requirements of the Securities St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at www.
By telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 Aviva plc Strategic report The Aviva plc Strategic report can be found within the Aviva Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
plc Annual report and accounts and includes the current Please be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or strategy and business model of the Board of Directors.
In correspondence offering to buy shares at a discount or addition, it forms part of a useful, easy to read summary offering free financial advice or company reports.
document, together with certain supplementary material which makes the Aviva plc Strategic report fair, balanced Millions of people fall victim to scams every year, from and understandable.
experienced investors to people dealing with a large sum for If you would prefer to receive a hard copy of the Aviva plc the first time.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has Strategic report instead of the full Aviva plc Annual report found that share fraud victims lose an average of 20,000. and accounts, please contact Computershare.
Please view the Aviva plc Strategic report at www.
The FCA takes action against fraudsters: for tips on how to protect your savings please visit www.
ShareGift Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
ShareGift is a UK registered charity No.
1052686 which Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely specialises in realising the value locked up in small to call you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shareholdings for charitable purposes.
are donated to a wide range of charities, reflecting Do not get into conversation, note the name of the firm suggestions received from donors.
Should you wish to contacting you and hang up.
donate your Aviva plc shares in this way, please visit www.
org donate-shares for more information For more information please visit the warning to about how to proceed.
Further details about ShareGift can shareholders page at www.
