IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 117 117 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company There is no impact on the profit or loss or equity for any incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, period presented.
The effect on amounts previously together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva reported at 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 is set transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund out in note 1. management and most classes of general insurance and health ii Amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments Novation business through its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting branches in the UK, Ireland, continental Europe, Canada, Asia The amendments provide an exemption from discontinuing and other countries throughout the world.
hedge accounting when novation of a derivative The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies These amendments have no impact on the Groups have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless consolidated financial statements in the current or prior otherwise stated.
period as the Group has not novated its derivatives to a central counterparty.
A Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements and those of the iii Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Company have been prepared and approved by the directors in Entities Exception accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The amendments provide an exemption from consolidation IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board of subsidiaries under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU, and those Statements for entities which meet the definition of an parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting 'investment entity', such as certain investment funds.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to are no implications for the Groups consolidated financial comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group and the statements as the Group does not meet the definition of Company have also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB an investment entity.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost iv IFRIC 21, Levies convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and The interpretation clarifies when an entity recognises a buildings, investment property, available-for-sale financial liability for a levy imposed by government in accordance assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including with legislation other than taxes and fines or other derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The adoption of the amendment has no impact In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, the Group for the Groups consolidated financial statements.
has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and v Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to These improvements to IFRSs consist of amendments to comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
seven IFRSs including IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IFRS 3 Further details are given in accounting policy G. Business Combinations and IFRS 13 Fair Value Items included in the financial statements of each of the Measurement.
The amendments clarify existing guidance Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary and there is no significant impact on the Groups economic environment in which that entity operates the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional Standards, interpretations and amendments to published and presentational currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the standards that are not yet effective and have not been amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of adopted early by the Group pounds sterling m. The separate financial statements of the The following new standards, amendments to existing standards Company are on pages 238 to 246. and interpretations have been issued, are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: New standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that have been adopted by the Group i Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits Employee The Group has adopted the following new standards or Contributions amendments to standards which became effective for financial These narrow scope amendments simplify accounting for years beginning on or after 1 January 2014. contributions from employees or third parties to defined benefit plans.
It is not expected to have a significant impact i Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial amendments apply to annual reporting periods beginning Liabilities on or after 1 July 2014 and have been endorsed by the EU.
These amendments clarify the meaning of currently legally enforceable right to set-off to reinforce that a right to setii Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 off must not be contingent on any future event, including These improvements to IFRSs consist of amendments to counterparty default or bankruptcy.
Additionally, four IFRSs including IFRS 3 Business Combinations and amendments to IAS 32 clarify that a settlement mechanism IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments clarify must be in place to ensure settlement in practice that is existing guidance.
The adoption of these amendments is either simultaneous or sufficient to result in insignificant not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups credit and liquidity risk.
The amendments to IAS 32 have profit or loss or equity.
The amendments are effective for been applied retrospectively in accordance with the annual periods beginning on or after 30 June 2015 and transitional provisions of the standard.
The primary impact have been endorsed by the EU.
of the application of the amendments has resulted in the grossing up of certain assets and liabilities related to derivatives and repurchase arrangements in the statement of financial position that were previously reported net.
| 11 118 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued iii Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or impact on the Groups profit or loss or equity.
The Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its amendments are effective for annual reporting periods Associate or Joint Venture beginning on or after 30 June 2016 and have yet to be Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 clarify that for endorsed by the EU.
transactions between an investor and its associate or joint ix IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers venture, full gains are to be recognised where the assets IFRS 15 will replace IAS 18, Revenue and establishes a sold or contributed constitute a business as defined in principle based five-step model to be applied to all IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Where the assets sold or contracts with customers, except for insurance contracts, contributed do not constitute a business, gains and losses financial instruments and lease contracts.
IFRS 15 also are recognised only to the extent of other investors includes enhanced disclosure requirements.
interests in the associate or joint venture.
The impact of the adoption of the new standard has The adoption of these amendments is not expected to yet to be fully assessed by the Group.
This standard applies have significant implications for the Groups consolidated to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 financial statements.
These amendments will be effective January 2017 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
on annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and have yet to be endorsed by the EU.
x IFRS 9, Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9, Financial iv Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Instruments which will replace IAS 39, Financial Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The finalised These amendments provide additional guidance on how the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant and standard incorporates new classification and measurements requirements for financial assets, the equipment and intangible assets should be calculated.
The amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 prohibit the use of introduction of an expected credit loss impairment model which will replace the incurred loss model of IAS 39, and revenue-based depreciation for property, plant and equipment and significantly limit the use of revenue-based new hedge accounting requirements.
Under IFRS 9, all financial assets will be measured at either amortised cost or amortisation for intangible assets.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have significant impact for fair value.
The basis of classification will depend on the business model and the contractual cash flow the Groups consolidated financial statements.
They are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after characteristics of the financial assets.
The standard retains most of IAS 39 requirements for financial liabilities except 1 January 2016 and have yet to be endorsed by the EU.
for those designated at fair value through profit or loss v Amendments to IAS 27, Equity Method in Separate whereby that part of the fair value changes attributable to Financial Statements own credit is to be recognised in other comprehensive The amendments to IAS 27 allow investments in income instead of the income statement.
The hedge subsidiaries to be accounted for using the equity method accounting requirements are more closely aligned with risk within the Companys financial statements.
The Company management practices and follow a more principle based has not completed the assessment of the impact of the approach.
The mandatory effective date of the new adoption of the amendments on its financial statements.
standard is annual reporting periods beginning on or after The amendments to IAS 27 are effective for annual 1 January 2018, with earlier adoption permitted.
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 The impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 on the Groups and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
consolidated financial statements, to a large extent, will need to take into account the interaction of the requirements with vi Narrow scope amendments to IFRS10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 the IASBs ongoing insurance contracts accounting project.
Applying the Consolidation Exception IFRS 9 has not been endorsed by the EU.
These narrow-scope amendments clarify the application of the requirements for investment entities to measure B Operating profit subsidiaries at fair value instead of consolidating them.
The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means There are no implications for the Groups consolidated that, for managements decision-making and internal financial statements as the Group does not meet the performance management, short-term realised and unrealised definition of an investment entity.
These amendments are investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure also 1 January 2016 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term and vii Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative non-long-term businesses.
Operating profit for long-term These amendments clarify guidance in IAS 1 on materiality business is based on expected investment returns on financial and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over structure of financial statements and the disclosure of the reporting period, with allowance for the corresponding accounting policies.
The amendments form part of the expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and IASBs Disclosure Initiative, which explores how financial expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in statement disclosures can be improved.
The adoption of economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately these amendments will have no impact for the Groups outside operating profit.
For non-long-term business, the total profit or loss or equity.
The amendments are effective for investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January analysed between that calculated using a longer-term return 2016 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
and short-term fluctuations from that level.
Further details of viii Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 this analysis and the assumptions used are given in notes 9 and These improvements consist of amendments to five IFRSs 10.
Operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, including IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and associates and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of Discontinued Operations and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
other intangibles: the profit or loss on disposal and The amendments clarify existing guidance.
The adoption of remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: these amendments is not expected to have a significant integration and restructuring costs: and exceptional items.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 119 119 Exceptional items are those items that, in the Directors view, subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature with the Group policies.
or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups The Group is required to use the acquisition method of financial performance.
Details of these items are provided in the accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the relevant notes.
cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair C Critical accounting policies and the use value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the of estimates option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions acquirees identifiable net assets.
The excess of the that affect items reported in the consolidated income consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets of statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see accounting primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial policy O below.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as statements.
Transactions that do not result in a loss of control are treated as equity transactions with non-controlling interests.
Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates These major areas of judgement on policy application are Merger accounting and the merger reserve summarised below: Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, certain significant business combinations were accounted for Critical accounting judgement, estimate or Accounting Item assumption policy using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, Consolidation Assessment of whether the D which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined Group controls the underlying throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
entities Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise Insurance and participating Assessment of the significance G to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial investment contract of insurance risk passed position, being the difference between the nominal value of liabilities new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of Financial investments Classification of investments T the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge arrangements.
and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration The table below sets out those items we consider particularly includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, relevant accounting policy.
from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006.
Accounting Item policy Investment vehicles In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities G&L Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets O specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment Fair values of financial investments F&T Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in Impairment of financial investments T equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and Fair value of derivative financial instruments F&U distribute most of their income.
The Groups percentage Deferred acquisition costs and other assets X ownership in these vehicles can fluctuate from day to day Provisions and contingent liabilities AA according to the Groups and third-party participation in them.
Pension obligations AB Deferred income taxes AC When assessing control over investment vehicles, the Group considers the scope of its decision-making authority including its D Consolidation principles ability to direct the relevant activities of the fund and exposure to variability of returns from the perspective of an investor in the Subsidiaries fund and of the asset manager.
In addition, the Group assesses Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has control.
rights held by other parties including substantive removal rights The Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has all that may affect the Groups ability to direct the relevant of the following: activities and indicate that the Group does not have power.
power over the investee, Where Group companies are deemed to control such vehicles, exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than with the investee, and Aviva being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
value attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the Group does not control such The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the investment funds, they are carried at fair value through profit or purpose and design of an investee, relevant activities, loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement substantive and protective rights, and voting rights and of financial position, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one European and Asian long-term business policyholder funds have or more of the three elements of control.
Subsidiaries are invested in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, consolidated from the date the Group obtains control and are either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners control.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder companies surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies have been eliminated.
Accounting policies of | 12 120 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in changes in their fair value being recognised in other the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint valuation reserve within equity.
ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control E Foreign currency translation over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are of each partnership agreement are considered along with other translated into the Groups presentation currency at average factors that determine control, as outlined above.
Where the exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial Group exerts control over a PUT or a PLP, it has been treated as position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities have been Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by an investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, agreement such that there is joint control between the parties, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in the PLP as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP may be comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation lower or higher than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such classified as joint ventures.
Where the Group has significant exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are influence over the PUT or PLP, as defined in the following recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss section, the PUT or PLP is classified as an associate.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to Group holds non-controlling interests in PLPs, with no be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
significant influence or control over their associated GPs, the Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the relevant investments are carried at fair value through profit or exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains loss within financial investments.
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities Associates and joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income Associates are entities over which the Group has significant statement.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the Translation differences on debt securities and other financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated not control or joint control.
Generally, it is presumed that the as held at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL see Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% accounting policy T are included in foreign exchange gains and of voting rights.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets the Group and other parties that have joint control of the designated as Available for Sale AFS, translation differences are arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign exchange arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the differences arising from fair value gains and losses are relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the sharing control.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation underlying assets and liabilities may be greater or less than 50% differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that designated as FVTPL, are reported as part of the fair value gain control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in referred to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups F Fair value measurement interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
market participants at the measurement date, regardless of Other than investments in investment vehicles which are whether that price is directly observable or estimated using carried at fair value through profit or loss, investments in another valuation technique.
This presumes that the transaction associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity takes place in the principal or most advantageous market method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the under current market conditions.
Fair value is a market-based investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with measure and in the absence of observable market prices in an the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to active market, it is measured using the assumptions that market shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
As explained in accounting The fair value of a non-financial asset is determined based policy O, the cost includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
on its highest and best use from a market participants The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is perspective.
When using this approach, the Group takes into recognised in the income statement and its share of postaccount the assets use that is physically possible, legally acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture value of the consideration given or received.
In certain equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group circumstances, the fair value at initial recognition may differ does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred from the transaction price.
If the fair value is evidenced by obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or The Companys investments repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique whose In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries, variables include only data from observable markets, then the associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the transaction price is recognised as a gain or loss in the income Companys market capitalisation.
When unobservable market data has a significant classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 121 121 impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the difference General insurance and health premiums written reflect business between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or price is not recognised immediately in the income statement, duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the but deferred and recognised in the income statement on an premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the appropriate basis over the life of the instrument but no later statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums are than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums market data or the transaction is closed out or otherwise collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed matured.
based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price are included in premiums written.
and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is Deposits collected under investment contracts without a most representative of fair value in the circumstances is used to discretionary participation feature non-participating contracts measure fair value.
are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the fee income covered in accounting policy I and the G Product classification investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through the statement of financial Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, I Other investment contract fee revenue excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the contract.
Such contracts remain insurance Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or administration, investment management, surrenders or other expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts with the amounts being managed, and will generally be not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The classified as investment contracts.
Some insurance and fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are investment contracts contain a discretionary participation collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are service is provided.
referred to as participating contracts.
Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed As noted in accounting policy A above, insurance contracts against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination and participating investment contracts in general continue to be of the contract are charged on some non-participating measured and accounted for under existing accounting investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees of the acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4. are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the Accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies is policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers, the most that relate to the provision of investment management services recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
In certain businesses, the J Other fee and commission income accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund designated insurance liabilities to reflect current market interest management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, rates and changes to regulatory capital requirements.
When commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for and adjustments to the measurement basis have occurred, the shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable financial statements of that year will have disclosed the impacts are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described accordingly.
One such example is our adoption of Financial in accounting policy X.
All other fee and commission income is Reporting Standard 27 Life Assurance FRS 27 which was issued recognised as the services are provided.
by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB in December 2004.
Aviva, along with other major insurance companies and K Net investment income the ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the ASB, Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents under which we voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt from 2005 in the Groups IFRS financial statements.
FRS 27 adds securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
losses on fair value through profit or loss investments as The additional requirements of FRS 27 are detailed in defined in accounting policy T. Dividends on equity securities accounting policy L below and in note 57. are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the H Premiums earned effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, income is recognised on an accruals basis, and is recognised on except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for a straight line basis unless there is compelling evidence that when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single benefits do not accrue evenly over the period of the lease.
premium business, this is the date from which the policy is A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or shown before deduction of commission and before any salesamortised cost, as appropriate.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is represent the difference between the carrying value at the year offset against premiums.
end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase | 12 122 2 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property.
interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are L Insurance and participating investment not considered as closely related to the host insurance contract or do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair contract liabilities value reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded Claims derivative is not fully collateralised.
Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as Liability adequacy policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the declarations.
recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using General insurance and health claims incurred include all current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up from previous years.
an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of General insurance and health provisions claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims Outstanding claims provisions department and any part of the general administrative costs General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are directly attributable to the claims function.
based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the statement of financial position date, whether Long-term business provisions reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating Significant delays are experienced in the notification and investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing particularly in respect of liability business, including accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of remeasured to reflect current market interest rates to be which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of consistent with the value of the backing assets, and those financial position date.
As such, booked claim provisions for relating to UK with-profit and non-profit contracts.
For liabilities general insurance and health insurance are based on the best relating to UK with-profit contracts, the Group has adopted estimate of the cost of future claim payments plus an explicit FRS 27 Life Assurance, as described in policy G above, in allowance for risk and uncertainty.
Any estimate represents a addition to the requirements of IFRS.
determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for details of estimation techniques are given in note 41 c. each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the the date of the acquisition of the entity : and actuarial principles reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates consistent with those applied in each local market.
Each calculation of the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, accounting period with any change in rates between the start where the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the and end of the accounting period being reflected below circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The range assumptions are disclosed in note 41 b.
For liabilities of the UK of discount rates used is described in note 41 c ii.
Outstanding with-profit funds, FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for expected realistic basis liabilities as set out by the UKs Prudential Regulation future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that Authority PRA, adjusted to remove the shareholders share of have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and future bonuses.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, the Group subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
applies regulatory requirements, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves and margins in assumptions, notably for annuity Provision for unearned premiums business.
On 1 April 2013 the rules made by the FSA were The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission designated by the PRA.
payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in Unallocated divisible surplus this provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of In certain participating long-term insurance and investment revenue over the period of risk.
business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities Liability adequacy is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks or shareholders has not been determined by the end of the and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of financial year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned surplus.
premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular under its contracts after taking account of the investment return participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of acquisition costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement income in the reporting period.
by setting up a provision in the statement of financial position.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 123 123 Other assessments and levies of investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related but do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a established where there is a present obligation legal or manner consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with included in insurance liabilities but are included under the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant Provisions in the statement of financial position.
Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and M Non-participating investment reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are accounted for directly through the statement of financial contract liabilities position.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the Claims consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified For non-participating investment contracts with an account premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
These deposit balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the assets or liabilities are shown within reinsurance assets in the account balance released.
consolidated statement of financial position.
Contract liabilities If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment are not accounted for through the income statement, except for loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred accounted for directly through the statement of financial after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the The majority of the Groups contracts classified as noncontract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked nonparticipating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
O Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets The fair value liability is determined in accordance with Goodwill IAS 39, using a valuation technique to provide a reliable Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over estimate of the amount for which the liability could be the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the transferred in an orderly transaction between market acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of participants at the measurement date, subject to a minimum acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 equal to the surrender value.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value value liability is equal to the current unit fund value, plus original cost less cumulative amortisation on that date, less any additional non-unit reserves if required based on a discounted impairment subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 cash flow analysis.
For non-linked contracts, the fair value January 1998 was eliminated against reserves and has not been liability is based on a discounted cash flow analysis, with reinstated.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in allowance for risk calibrated to match the market price for risk.
subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, whilst Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of that on associates and joint ventures is included within the consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the carrying value of those investments.
net effect of payments such as transaction costs and front-end Acquired value of in-force business AVIF fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term effective interest rate method of any difference between that insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or initial amount and the maturity value, and less any write-down through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
The effective interest rate is the one If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial joint venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying amount.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised determined as the value of future best estimate cash flows over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio discounted at the effective interest rate.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by considering the profile of the additional value of in-force N Reinsurance business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
The The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course value of the acquired in-force long-term business is reviewed of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
annually for any impairment in value and any reductions are Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in charged as expenses in the income statement.
the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into account the product Intangible assets classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance Intangibles consist primarily of contractual relationships such as related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life access to distribution networks and customer lists.
The of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions economic lives of these are determined by considering relevant consistent with those used to account for these policies.
factors such as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using industry, competitive position and the period of control over the consistent assumptions.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful lives, Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised which range from five to 30 years, using the straight-line in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and method.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are The amortisation charge for the year is included in the presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement income statement under Other expenses.
For intangibles with and statement of financial position as appropriate.
finite lives, impairment charges will be recognised in the income Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both statement where evidence of such impairment is observed.
insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular investment contract liabilities.
This includes balances in respect impairment testing, as described below.
| 12 124 4 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued Impairment testing R Impairment of non-financial assets For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units.
The reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the this value.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an down for impairment where the recoverable amount is assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
For the insufficient to support its carrying value.
Further details on purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the goodwill allocation and impairment testing are given in note 17. lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets except goodwill which have suffered P Property and equipment an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued impairment at each reporting date.
amounts, and movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within S Derecognition and offset of financial assets equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated and financial liabilities revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other where: items classed as property and equipment within the statement The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
of financial position are carried at historical cost less The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the accumulated depreciation.
asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full Investment properties under construction are included without material delay to a third party under a pass-through within property and equipment until completion, and are stated arrangement.
at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks measurable.
and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, write-down the cost of other assets to their residual values over but has transferred control of the asset.
their estimated useful lives as follows: A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Properties under construction No depreciation Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount Owner-occupied properties, 25 years reported in the statement of financial position when there is a and related mechanical and currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised electrical equipment amounts and there is the ability and intention to settle on a net Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
up to useful life if longer Computer equipment Three to five years T Financial investments Other assets Three to five years The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or financial assets The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation available for sale AFS.
The classification depends on the are reviewed regularly, and at least at each financial year end, and purpose for which the investments were acquired, and is adjusted if appropriate.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is determined by local management at initial recognition.
The greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down FVTPL category has two subcategories those that meet the immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal definition as being held for trading and those the Group of property and equipment are determined by reference to their chooses to designate as FVTPL referred to in this accounting carrying amount.
policy as other than trading upon initial recognition.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and In general, the other than trading category is used as, in construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All most cases, the Groups investment or risk management repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount acquires with the intention to resell in the short term, are of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of accounting policy U below.
The AFS category is used where the the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation relevant long-term business liability including shareholders replaces an identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the Q Investment property trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be stated at its fair value, as assessed by qualified external valuers amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the or by local qualified staff of the Group.
Changes in fair values income statement.
Investments classified as trading, other than are recorded in the income statement in net investment income.
trading and AFS, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes As described in accounting policy P above, investment in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments properties under construction are included within property and are included in the income statement in the period in which equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their they arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as values until construction is completed or fair value becomes AFS are recognised in other comprehensive income and reliably measurable.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 125 125 recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are equity.
not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
When securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are transferred out of the U Derivative financial instruments investment valuation reserve to the income statement with a and hedging corresponding movement through other comprehensive Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange income.
contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, currency and interest rate options both written and purchased Impairment and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit or a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is equity indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of reduced through a charge to the income statement in the financial position at their fair value, which usually represents period of impairment.
The following policies are used to their cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, determine the level of any impairment, some of which involve with the method of recognising movements in this value considerable judgement: depending on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair AFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there is values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted impaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are according to the contractual terms of the security are not carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid for difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, derivatives are recorded as an asset on the statement of is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or financial position at the date of purchase, representing their fair in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in financial value at that date.
difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or overnumber of factors including industry risk factors, financial the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline contracts are individually negotiated between contracting in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit of a loss event.
risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative instruments.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment documented under International Swaps and Derivatives valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and The notional or contractual amounts associated with recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or represents a decrease in the impairment loss that can be liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such an event, are disclosed in note 59 b. the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a gain in the The Group has collateral agreements in place between the income statement.
individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
Accounting policy W covers collateral, both received and AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered pledged, in respect of these derivatives.
impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be recovered.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such Interest rate and currency swaps evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative means of periodic payments, computed on a specified notional to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month amount and defined interest rates.
Most interest rate swap period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or payments are netted against each other, with the difference been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of between the fixed and floating rate interest payments paid by more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
Currency swaps, in their simplest form, are also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in industry periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Both sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective types of swap contracts may include the net exchange of evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment timing of payments.
valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
or money market instrument at a specified future date and Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down will become a reference point in determining, in concert with an | 12 126 6 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as one party to the other, depending what rate in fact prevails at a derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are future point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist recognised immediately in net investment income.
primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate protection instruments that involve the potential obligation of the seller to V Loans pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate borrowers.
Certain loans are carried at their unpaid principal contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, interest rates fluctuate.
Certain contracts, known as swaptions, non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These contain features which can act as swaps or options.
These amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as contracts are categorised according to the type of contract they an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate most closely resemble in practice.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid principal balances or cost.
Foreign exchange contracts However, for the majority of mortgage loans, the Group has Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the present the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative currency of one country for the currency of another country at financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more contracts are similar to interest rate option contracts, except relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch that they are based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
that would otherwise arise from using different measurement Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase or bases for these three items.
The fair values of these mortgages decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and are estimated using discounted cash flow models, based on a interest rates fluctuate.
risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects the risks associated with these products.
They are revalued at each period end, with Derivative instruments for hedging movements in their fair values being taken to the income On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group statement.
designates certain derivatives as either: At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and fair value hedge : uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is firm commitment cash flow hedge : or written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at investment hedge.
the original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into account the fair value of the underlying collateral through an Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, impairment provision account.
Subsequent recoveries in excess provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the of the loans written-down carrying value are credited to the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the income statement.
hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management objective and the strategy for undertaking the W Collateral hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment of The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk inception and on an ongoing basis.
Collateral is also pledged as security for Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral and qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the prove to be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are counterparty.
recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally reserve within equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the reserve are included in the income statement on disposal of the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as the repayment in financial liabilities note 60.
the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off and Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated the ability and intent to net settle, the collateral liability and and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income associated derivative balances are shown net, in line with statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item that is market practice.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the income in the statement of financial position unless the Group either a statement.
This applies even if the hedged item is an available sells or repledges these assets in the absence of default, at for sale financial asset or is measured at amortised cost.
If a which point the obligation to return this collateral is recognised hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge as a liability: or b the counterparty to the arrangement accounting, the cumulative adjustment made to the carrying defaults, at which point the collateral is seized and recognised amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income as an asset.
statement, based on a recalculated effective interest rate over Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally the residual period to maturity.
In cases where the hedged item segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement has been derecognised, the cumulative adjustment is released to of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised the income statement immediately.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while from the statement of financial position unless the Group providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 127 127 therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual value, is recognised as a receivable.
The Group has not entered X Deferred acquisition costs and other assets into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor or lessee.
Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment contracts are deferred in line with AA Provisions and contingent liabilities existing local accounting practices, to the extent that they are expected to be recovered out of future margins in revenues on Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying these contracts is calculated in accordance with the PRAs economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and realistic capital regime and FRS 27.
For non-participating a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be investment and investment fund management contracts, made.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements that are penalties and employee termination payments.
They include directly attributable to securing an investment management only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, service are also deferred.
which are those that are necessarily entailed by the Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion restructuring: and not associated with the ongoing activities of of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, the entity.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best and is treated as a separate liability.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the systematically over a period no longer than that in which they time value of money is material, the provision is the present are expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
value of the expected expenditure.
Provisions are not recognised Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating investment for future operating losses.
and investment fund management contracts are amortised over Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for the period in which the service is provided.
General insurance example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is and health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the recognised as a separate asset but only when the period in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers reimbursement is virtually certain.
share of deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts manner as the underlying asset.
when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off under the contract.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if Other receivables and payables are initially recognised at there is a present obligation as a result of a past event but either cost, being fair value.
Subsequent to initial measurement they a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably are measured at amortised cost.
Y Statement of cash flows AB Employee benefits Cash and cash equivalents Annual leave Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other shortthey accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the estimated term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by known amounts of cash and which are subject to an employees up to the statement of financial position date.
insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those Pension obligations with less than three months maturity from the date of The Group operates a number of pension schemes, whose acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an members receive benefits on either a defined benefit or defined insignificant change in their fair values.
Under a defined contribution plan, the For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and Groups legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are it agrees to contribute to a fund and there is no obligation to included in payables and other financial liabilities on the pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient statement of financial position.
A defined benefit pension plan is a Operating cash flows pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan and typically Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will investments are included within operating cash flows as the receive on retirement.
purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The pension payments of related benefits and claims.
obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market Z Leases yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating pension liability.
The resultant net surplus or deficit recognised leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position is operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
over the term of the relevant leases.
If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating the defined benefit obligation, the resultant asset is limited to leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line the asset ceiling defined as present value of economic benefits basis over the lease term.
available in the form of future refunds from the plan or | 12 128 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Accounting policies continued reductions in contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the components of other comprehensive income and equity, as present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to appropriate.
any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken the Group.
for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material Remeasurements of defined benefit plans comprise actuarial temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated changes in actuarial assumptions, the return on plan assets financial statements.
excluding net interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation any.
The Group recognises remeasurements immediately in of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial other comprehensive income and does not reclassify them to assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, technical the income statement in subsequent periods.
provisions and other insurance items, provisions for pensions Service costs comprising current service costs, past service and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried costs, gains and losses on curtailments and net interest forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference expense income are charged or credited to the income between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax statement.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Past service costs are recognised at the earlier of the date statement of financial position date are used to value the the plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is The Group determines the net interest expense income on probable that future taxable profit will be available against the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is defined benefit liability asset.
Net interest expense is charged convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
to finance costs, whereas, net interest income is credited to Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising investment income.
from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the difference can be controlled and it is probable that the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Groups contributions are Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary charged to the income statement in the year to which they differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or relate and are included in staff costs.
from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither Equity compensation plans accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time The Group offers share award and option plans over the of the transaction.
Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in other comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 32. recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity The Group accounts for options and awards under equity respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November of available for sale investments, pensions and other post- 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair retirement obligations and other amounts charged or credited value based method of accounting the fair value method.
directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option Current tax on interest paid on direct capital instruments and plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income fixed rate tier 1 notes is credited directly in equity.
statement over the expected vesting period of the related In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore pay tax on part of shareholders funds.
In certain jurisdictions, awards must policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain be settled in cash instead of shares, and the credit is taken to products at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of these cashas an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
The settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group As described in accounting policy AE below, shares pays on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards are has been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
AD Borrowings When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited operational purposes.
They are recognised initially at their issue to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained in the income statement over the period of the borrowings earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and AC Income taxes equipment as described in accounting policy P above.
The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the Where loan notes have been issued in connection with year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to present the mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 129 129 financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a AH Operations held for sale portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch which are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated which would otherwise arise from using different measurement statement of financial position.
Operations held for sale are bases for these three items.
recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less the estimated selling costs.
AE Share capital and treasury shares Equity instruments An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may be unfavourable: and ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
Share issue costs Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
Dividends Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in which they are declared and appropriately approved.
Treasury shares Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
The Groups only such holding comprises shares purchased by employee trusts to fund certain awards under the equity compensation plans described in accounting policy AB above.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
AF Fiduciary activities Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
AG Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the adjusted operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details are given in note 15.
For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per share.
