| 2 298 98 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued to secure the transfer of all or part of the business to another insurance products in Indonesia.
The business in South Korea insurance company.
The business in Malaysia was sold in April FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of 2013.
The Asia area is made up of a number of widely differing insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longand independent markets.
The markets tend to be at different term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator stages in their development but each has its own regulatory structures and Aviva complies with the local regulation in each and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far as it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term of the countries in which it operates.
Industry regulation typically focuses on financial stability and insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In market conduct i. e. minimum capital and the basis for calculating solvency, reserves and policyholder liability.
In many carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when of the markets regulators have the power to revoke operating licences, regulate shareholder structures and the participation in the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new contracts of insurance.
and the payment of dividends.
Asia markets are moving quickly to modernise insurance regulation with an increasing focus on governance and conduct of business.
United States Aviva plc reached agreement, in December 2012, to sell Aviva Intellectual property USA Corporation Aviva USA and its subsidiaries and the sale Our primary brands the Aviva name and logo are registered was completed in October 2013.
Aviva USA was domiciled in trademarks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other Iowa and was the holding company for Aviva Life and Annuity countries where Aviva has operations.
Company which was licensed to conduct business in all states Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and except New York and Washington D. C. In New York it operated watching for infringements.
There are no material infringements a wholly owned subsidiary, Aviva Life Insurance Company of in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the New York.
Further details of the sale of Aviva USA and the Group or third parties.
settlement in 2014 of the purchase price adjustments related to the sale can be found in the sections Financial and operating performance - Activity in 2014 and - Discontinued Operations, United States.
Canada We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI for prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and insurance business being written.
Companies have their own internal MCT target that is communicated to OSFI, which is set to ensure that they maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum requirement.
Market conduct regulation is conducted at the provincial level through ten independent provincial regulators.
Those regulators derive their powers from insurance acts enacted by provincial legislatures.
Market conduct regulation focuses on personal lines products and business practices, including rating formulas, underwriting and policy terms and conditions.
Commercial lines insurance is not subject to similar regulations.
Asia We operate in Asia through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business is predominantly long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
During 2014 Aviva also operated businesses in China, India, Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control exerted by Aviva, were accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
In 2014, our business in Indonesia was restructured into a 50-50 joint venture with Indonesias largest listed company, PT Astra International Tbk to sell and distribute life
