Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 28 289 9 1 May.
The following table shows certain information regarding the long-term business shareholder companies hold equity the dividends that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in the PLPs.
indicated in pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at the The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
noon buying rate in effect on each payment date.
Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on Interim Interim whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control dividend dividend Final dividend Final dividend over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms per share per share per share per share Year pence cents pence cents of each partnership agreement are considered along with other 2009 9.00 14.75 15.00 23.55 factors that determine control.
2010 9.50 15.20 16.00 25.80 Note 19 to the IFRS Financial Statements provides a list of 2011 10.00 15.70 16.00 25.27 2012 10.00 15.85 9.00 13.67 the principal PLPs accounted for as joint ventures, as well as 2013 5.60 9.01 9.40 15.79 summarised information on the income, expenses, assets and 2014 5.85 9.15 12.25 na liabilities of the Groups interests in its joint ventures in aggregate.
In respect of these PLPs, there are no significant Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance contingent liabilities to which we are exposed, nor do we have sheet arrangements any significant contingent liabilities in relation to our interests in As a normal part of our operating activities, various Group them.
External debt raised by the PLPs is secured on their companies have given financial guarantees and options, respective property portfolios, and the lenders are only entitled including interest rate guarantees, in respect of certain longto obtain payment of both interest and principal to the extent term assurance and fund management products, as set out in there are sufficient resources in the respective PLPs.
The lenders Note 43 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
These are accounted have no recourse whatsoever to the policyholder and for on-balance sheet as either part of the host insurance shareholders funds of any companies in the Aviva Group.
At 31 contract or as financial instruments under IFRS.
December 2014, we had 70 million capital commitments to Information on operating lease commitments can be found these PLP joint ventures.
in Note 54 b to the IFRS Financial Statements.
It is standard business practice for our Group companies to Liquidity and capital resources give guarantees, indemnities and warranties in connection with Treasury function disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to third The treasury function of our business is managed by our parties.
As of 31 December 2014, we believe no material loss centralised treasury team, headed by the Group treasurer.
The will arise in respect of these guarantees, indemnities and Group treasurer acts as owner of Group business standards for warranties.
Principal warranties include the accuracy and liquidity and foreign exchange risk management within the completeness of the statement of financial position at an agreed Group risk governance and oversight framework.
Changes in specified date, details of outstanding litigation, regulatory policy require the agreement of the Chief Risk Officer.
These matters, material contractual commitments, the position on tax policies are independently implemented and monitored by each filings and other customary matters together with any specific of our businesses.
Our central treasury team is split into distinct items identified during due diligence.
In addition, specific functions: a Group team, which develops our overall treasury clauses cover such items as regulatory approvals and licences, strategy and our treasury team at Aviva Investors, which the basis of calculation regarding actuarial insurance liabilities, manages and monitors our treasury and cash flow positions for reinsurance contracts and the status of employee pension plans.
Each business unit is responsible for Their exact terms are tailored to each disposal and are set out in monitoring its own cash and liquidity positions, as well as its the respective sale and purchase agreement.
Similarly, the open ongoing funding requirements.
It is our policy to make the warranty periods, within which the purchaser could claim, and majority of our financing arrangements at the parent company limits on the maximum amount potentially recoverable will vary level for our business units, primarily through external for each item covered in each disposal.
This enables us to achieve the We have received notice of a number of claims on recent efficiencies afforded by our collective size.
A number of our disposals, and where appropriate, hold provisions in respect of business units also raise debt on their own behalf.
There are also open claim periods on other recent Our principal objective in managing our liquidity and capital disposals in respect of which we have neither received, nor have resources is to maximise the return on capital to shareholders, any reason to believe we will receive, any claims.
Accordingly, as while enabling us to pay dividends, service our debt and our of 31 December 2014, we believe that appropriate provisions holding companies cash flows.
In the context of a financial have been made regarding known and expected material services company where our working capital is largely warranty and indemnity claims relating to recent disposal representative of our liquidity, we believe that our working activity.
capital is sufficient for our present operational requirements.
For We have loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which additional information, see IFRS Financial statements Note 58 have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings by Risk management liquidity risk.
special purpose entities in our UK Life business, as set out in Note 25 to the IFRS Financial Statements.
These special purpose Extraordinary market conditions entities have been consolidated and included in the statement Starting in mid-September 2008, the global financial markets of financial position, as we retain the residual interest in them.
experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the business environment in general, as well as financial services Limited liability partnerships classified as joint ventures companies in particular.
Markets have improved but continue to As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain be fragile.
A return to adverse financial market conditions could European long-term business policyholder funds have invested significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain in a number of property limited partnerships PLP, either directly capital, although management believes that we have liquidity or via property unit trusts PUT, through a mix of capital and and capital resources to meet business requirements under loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners GP, in which current and stressed market conditions.
At 31 December 2014, total consolidated cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts amounted to 22,564 1 In December 2014, the directors proposed a final dividend subject to shareholder approval.
