| 220 220 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 57 Capital statement continued 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated realistic Capital Estimated excess excess realistic realistic inherited support risk capital available available 1 2 3 assets liabilities estate arrangement margin capital capital bn bn bn bn bn bn bn NWPSF 14.8 14.8 2.1 0.2 1.9 0.9 OWPSF 2.8 2.5 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 4 WPSF 17.1 15.5 1.6 0.3 1.3 1.2 Aggregate 34.7 32.8 1.9 2.1 0.6 3.4 2.4 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of accrued bonuses of 0.2 billion 31 December 2013: 0.1 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of accrued bonuses are 33.0 billion 31 December 2013: 33.4 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.4 billion, 0.3 billion and 3.0 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2013: 1.4 billion, 0.2 billion and 2.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2013 was nil, 0.4 billion and 1.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
3 This represents the reattributed estate RIEESA of 2.1 billion at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 1.1 billion.
The increase arises mainly from the transfer of non-profit business from RIEESA to NWPSF and recognition of the value of this business in RIEESA.
4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.7 billion and therefore does not contribute to the realistic inherited estate.
Under the PRA regulatory regime, UK life with-profits business is required to hold capital equivalent to the greater of their regulatory requirement based on EU directives regulatory peak and the PRA realistic bases realistic peak described above.
For UK non-participating business, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with PRA regulations.
The available capital reflects the excess of regulatory basis assets over liabilities before deduction of capital resources requirement.
For UK general insurance businesses, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with the PRA requirements.
For overseas businesses in the European Economic Area EEA, Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore, the available capital and the minimum requirement are calculated under the locally applicable regulatory regimes.
The businesses outside these territories are subject to the PRA rules for the purposes of calculation of available capital and capital resource requirement.
For fund management and other businesses, the relevant capital requirement is the minimum solvency requirement determined in accordance with the local regulators requirements for the specific class of business.
The available capital resources in each regulated entity are generally subject to restrictions as to their availability to meet requirements that may arise elsewhere in the Group.
The principal restrictions are: i UK with-profits fund NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF any available surplus held in each fund can be used to meet the requirements of the fund itself, be distributed to policyholders and shareholders or in the case of NWPSF and OWPSF, transferred via the capital support arrangement explained above for OWPSF only to the extent support has been provided in the past.
In most cases, with-profit policyholders are entitled to at least 90% of the distributed profits while the shareholders receive the balance.
The latter distribution would be subject to a tax charge, which is met by the fund.
ii UK non-participating funds any available surplus held in these is attributable to shareholders.
Capital in the non-profit funds may be made available to meet requirements elsewhere in the Group subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of the fund.
Any transfer of the surplus may give rise to a tax charge subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
iii Overseas life operations the capital requirements and corresponding regulatory capital held by overseas businesses are calculated using the locally applicable regulatory regime.
The available capital resources in all these businesses are subject to local regulatory restrictions which may constrain managements ability to utilise these in other parts of the Group.
In several business units, Group companies and other parties jointly control certain entities: these joint venture operations may constrain managements ability to utilise the capital in other parts of the Group.
Any transfer of available capital may give rise to a tax charge subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
iv General insurance operations the capital requirements and corresponding regulatory capital held by overseas businesses are calculated using the locally applicable regulatory regime.
Any transfer of available capital may give rise to a tax charge, subject to availability of tax relief elsewhere in the Group.
58 Risk management This note sets out the major risks our businesses and its shareholders face and describes the Groups approach to managing these.
It also gives sensitivity analyses around the major economic and non-economic assumptions that can cause volatility in the Groups earnings and capital position.
a Risk management framework The risk management framework RMF in Aviva forms an integral part of the management and Board processes and decisionmaking framework across the Group.
The key elements of our risk management framework comprise risk appetite: risk governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk oversight committees and roles and responsibilities: and the processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report IMMMR risks, including the use of our risk models and stress and scenario testing.
For the purposes of risk identification and measurement, and aligned to Avivas risk policies, risks are usually grouped by risk type: credit, market, liquidity, life insurance, general insurance, asset management and operational risk.
Risks falling within these types may affect a number of metrics including those relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may also affect the performance of the products we deliver to our customers and the service to our customers and distributors, which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation or as conduct risk.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 221 221 58 Risk management continued To promote a consistent and rigorous approach to risk management across all businesses we have a set of risk policies and business standards which set out the risk strategy, appetite, framework and minimum requirements for the Groups worldwide operations.
On a semi-annual basis the business chief executive officers and chief risk officers sign-off compliance with these policies and standards, providing assurance to the relevant oversight committees that there is a consistent framework for managing our business and the associated risks.
A regular top-down key risk identification and assessment process is carried out by the risk function.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks and is supported by deeper thematic reviews.
This process is replicated at the business unit level.
The risk assessment processes are used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant risk committees.
Risk models are an important tool in our measurement of risks and are used to support the monitoring and reporting of the risk profile and in the consideration of the risk management actions available.
We carry out a range of stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are assumed to vary tests to evaluate their impact on the business and the management actions available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
Roles and responsibilities for risk management in Aviva are based around the three lines of defence model where ownership for risk is taken at all levels in the Group.
Line management in the business is accountable for risk management, including the implementation of the risk management framework and embedding of the risk culture.
The risk function is accountable for quantitative and qualitative oversight and challenge of the IMMMR process and for developing the risk management framework.
Internal Audit provides an independent assessment of the risk framework and internal control processes.
Board oversight of risk and risk management across the Group is maintained on a regular basis through its Risk Committee and Governance Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining risk appetite, which is an expression of the risk the business is willing to take.
Risk appetites are set relative to capital, liquidity and franchise value at Group and in the business units.
Economic capital risk appetites are also set for each risk type.
The Groups position against risk appetite is monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The oversight of risk and risk management at the Group level is supported by the Asset Liability Committee ALCO, which focuses on business and financial risks, and the Operational Risk Committee ORC which focuses on operational and reputational risks.
Similar committee structures with equivalent terms of reference exist in the business units.
Further information on the types and management of specific risk types is given in sections b j below.
The risk management framework of a small number of our joint ventures and strategic equity holdings differs from the Aviva framework outlined in this note.
We work with these entities to understand how their risks are managed and to align them, where possible, with Avivas framework.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss as a result of the default or failure of third parties to meet their payment obligations to Aviva, or variations in market values as a result of changes in expectations related to these risks.
Credit risk is an area where we can provide the returns required to satisfy policyholder liabilities and to generate returns for our shareholders.
In general we prefer to take credit risk over equity and property risks, due to the better expected risk adjusted return, our credit risk analysis capability and the structural investment advantages conferred to insurers with long-dated, relatively illiquid liabilities.
Our approach to managing credit risk recognises that there is a risk of adverse financial impact resulting from fluctuations in credit quality of third parties including default, rating transition and credit spread movements.
Our credit risks arise principally through exposures to debt security investments, structured asset investments, bank deposits, derivative counterparties, mortgage lending and reinsurance counterparties.
The Group manages its credit risk at business unit and Group level.
All business units are required to implement credit risk management processes including limits frameworks, operate specific risk management committees, and ensure detailed reporting and monitoring of their exposures against pre-established risk criteria.
At Group level, we manage and monitor all exposures across our business units on a consolidated basis, and operate a Group limit framework that must be adhered to by all.
A detailed breakdown of the Groups current credit exposure by credit quality is shown below.
i Financial exposures by credit ratings Financial assets are graded according to current external credit ratings issued.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classified within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
Financial assets which fall outside this range are classified as sub-investment grade.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure of the Group for financial assets with external credit ratings, excluding assets held for sale.
Not rated assets capture assets not rated by external ratings agencies.
Carrying Less: value Amounts Speculative including classified as Carrying As at 31 December 2014 AAA AA A BBB grade Not rated held for sale held for sale value m Debt securities 13.6% 35.6% 21.3% 21.9% 2.1% 5.5% 131,661 131,661 Reinsurance assets 0.3% 71.3% 21.9% 0.1% 0.0% 6.4% 7,958 7,958 Other investments 0.0% 0.1% 1.3% 0.0% 0.2% 98.4% 35,358 35,358 Loans 1.3% 9.0% 2.1% 0.2% 0.0% 87.4% 25,260 25,260 Total 200,237 200,237 Carrying Less: value Amounts Speculative including held classified as Carrying 1 As at 31 December 2013 restated AAA AA A BBB grade Not rated for sale held for sale value m Debt securities 13.0% 33.1% 20.8% 24.9% 2.8% 5.4% 126,805 2,420 124,385 Reinsurance assets 0.3% 53.6% 37.1% 1.1% 0.1% 7.8% 7,257 37 7,220 Other investments 0.0% 0.2% 0.7% 1.0% 0.1% 98.0% 32,517 201 32,316 Loans 3.8% 12.1% 1.2% 0.0% 0.3% 82.6% 23,879 23,879 Total 190,458 2,658 187,800 1 Restated for the adoption of amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation see note 1 for details | 222 222 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 58 Risk management continued The majority of non-rated debt securities within shareholder assets are held by our businesses in the UK.
Of these securities most are allocated an internal rating using a methodology largely consistent with that adopted by an external rating agency, and are considered to be of investment grade credit quality: these include 2.5 billion 2013: 2.4 billion of debt securities held in our UK Life business, predominantly made up of private placements and other corporate bonds, which have been internally rated as investment grade.
The Group continues to hold a series of macro credit hedges to reduce the overall credit risk exposure, and has increased these hedges during 2014.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit risk of financial assets, without taking collateral or these hedges into account, is represented by the carrying value of the financial instruments in the statement of financial position.
These comprise debt securities, reinsurance assets, derivative assets, loans and receivables.
The carrying values of these assets are disclosed in the relevant notes: financial investments note 27, reinsurance assets note 44, loans note 24 and receivables note 28.
The collateral in place for these credit exposures is disclosed in note 60: Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements To the extent that collateral held is greater than the amount receivable that it is securing, the table above shows only an amount equal to the latter.
In the event of default, any over-collateralised security would be returned to the relevant counterparty.
ii Financial exposures to peripheral European countries and worldwide banks Included in our debt securities and other financial assets are exposures to peripheral European countries and worldwide banks.
We continued in 2014 to limit our direct shareholder and participating assets exposure to the governments including local authorities and agencies and banks of Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain, which has benefitted from an increase in market values.
The completion of the disposal of the Groups interest in Eurovita has resulted in a reduction of our exposure to Italian sovereign and corporate debt.
In light of the improving economic situation in Ireland, we have made a modest increase in our exposure to Irish sovereign debt during 2014.
Information on our exposures to peripheral European sovereigns and banks is provided in notes 27 e and 27 f. We continue to monitor closely the situation in the eurozone and have had additional restrictions on further investment in place since late 2009 as well as taking actions to reduce exposure to higher risk assets.
iii Other investments Other investments including assets of operations classified as held for sale include unit trusts and other investment vehicles: derivative financial instruments, representing positions to mitigate the impact of adverse market movements: and other assets includes deposits with credit institutions and minority holdings in property management undertakings.
The credit quality of the underlying debt securities within investment vehicles is managed by the safeguards built into the investment mandates for these funds which determine the funds risk profiles.
At the Group level, we also monitor the asset quality of unit trusts and other investment vehicles against Group set limits.
A proportion of the assets underlying these investments are represented by equities and so credit ratings are not generally applicable.
Equity exposures are managed against agreed benchmarks that are set with reference to overall appetite for market risk.
iv Loans The Group loan portfolio principally comprises: Policy loans which are generally collateralised by a lien or charge over the underlying policy: Loans and advances to banks which primarily relate to loans of cash collateral received in stock lending transactions.
These loans are fully collateralised by other securities: and Mortgage loans collateralised by property assets.
We use loan to value: interest and debt service cover: and diversity and quality of the tenant base metrics to internally monitor our exposures to mortgage loans.
We use credit quality, based on dynamic market measures, and collateralisation rules to manage our stock lending activities.
Policy loans are loans and advances made to policyholders, and are collateralised by the underlying policies.
v Credit concentration risk The long-term and general insurance businesses are generally not individually exposed to significant concentrations of credit risk due to the regulations applicable in most markets and the Group credit policy and limits framework, which limit investments in individual assets and asset classes.
Credit concentrations are monitored as part of the regular credit monitoring process and are reported to Group ALCO.
With the exception of government bonds the largest aggregated counterparty exposure within shareholder assets i. e. excluding potential exposures arising from reinsurance of unit linked funds is approximately 1.6% of the total shareholder assets gross of held for sale.
vi Reinsurance credit exposures The Group is exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The Group operates a policy to manage its reinsurance counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Reinsurance exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that the overall risk is within appetite.
The Group ALM and Group Risk teams have an active monitoring role with escalation to the Chief Financial Officer CFO, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Group ALCO and the Board Risk Committee as appropriate.
The Groups largest reinsurance counterparty is BlackRock Life Ltd including subsidiaries as a result of the BlackRock funds offered to UK Life customers via unit linked contracts.
At 31 December 2014, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including debtor balances, from BlackRock Life Ltd was 2,048 million.
vii Securities finance The Group has significant securities financing operations within the UK and smaller operations in some other businesses.
The risks within this activity are mitigated by  and minimum counterparty credit quality requirements which are designed to minimise residual risk.
The Group operates strict standards around counterparty quality, collateral management, margin calls and controls.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 2 223 23 58 Risk management continued viii Derivative credit exposures The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk through derivative trades.
This risk is mitigated through collateralising almost all trades the exception being certain foreign exchange trades where it has historically been the market norm not to collateralise.
Residual exposures are captured within the Groups credit management framework.
ix Unit-linked business In unit-linked business the policyholder bears the direct market risk and credit risk on investment assets in the unit funds and the shareholders exposure to credit risk is limited to the extent of the income arising from asset management charges based on the value of assets in the fund.
x Impairment of financial assets In assessing whether financial assets carried at amortised cost or classified as available for sale are impaired, due consideration is given to the factors outlined in accounting policies T and V. The following table provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets subject to impairment testing that have been impaired and the ageing of those assets that are past due but not impaired.
The table excludes assets carried at fair value through profit or loss or held for sale.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 6 months1 Greater have been Carrying impaired 03 months 36 months year than 1 year impaired value At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,021 1,021 Reinsurance assets 5,425 5,425 Other investments 1 4 5 Loans 4,286 2 2 75 4,365 Receivables and other financial assets 5,849 60 9 7 8 5,933 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 6 months1 Greater than have been Carrying impaired 03 months 36 months year 1 year impaired value 1 At 31 December 2013 Restated m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,133 1,133 Reinsurance assets 5,172 5,172 Other investments 7 6 13 Loans 5,263 139 5,402 Receivables and other financial assets 7,350 56 26 18 22 4 7,476 1 Restated for the adoption of amendments to IAS32 Financial Instruments Presentation see note1 for details.
In addition, restated to exclude reinsurance assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Excluded from the tables above are financial and reinsurance assets carried at fair value through profit or loss that are not subject to impairment testing, as follows: 130.6 billion of debt securities 2013: 125.7 billion, 35.4 billion of other investments 2013 restated: 32.5 billion, 20.9 billion of loans 2013: 18.5 billion and 2.5 billion of reinsurance assets 2013: 2.0 billion.
Where assets have been classed as past due and impaired, an analysis is made of the risk of default and a decision is made whether to seek to mitigate the risk.
There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
c Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact resulting, directly or indirectly from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and property prices.
Market risk arises in business units due to fluctuations in both the value of liabilities and the value of investments held.
At Group level, it also arises in relation to the overall portfolio of international businesses and in the value of investment assets owned directly by the shareholders.
We actively seek some market risks as part of our investment and product strategy.
However, we have limited appetite for interest rate risk as we do not believe it is adequately rewarded.
The management of market risk is undertaken at business unit and at Group level.
Businesses manage market risks locally using the Group market risk framework and within local regulatory constraints.
Group ALM is responsible for monitoring and managing market risk at Group level and has established criteria for matching assets and liabilities to limit the impact of mismatches due to market movements.
In addition, where the Groups long-term savings businesses have written insurance and investment products where the majority of investment risks are borne by its policyholders, these risks are managed in line with local regulations and marketing literature, in order to satisfy the policyholders risk and reward objectives.
The Group writes unit-linked business in a number of its operations.
The shareholders exposure to market risk on this business is limited to the extent that income arising from asset management charges is based on the value of assets in the fund.
The most material types of market risk that the Group is exposed to are described below.
i Equity price risk The Group is subject to equity price risk arising from changes in the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
We continue to limit our direct equity exposure in line with our risk preferences.
At a business unit level, investment limits and local asset admissibility regulations require that business units hold diversified portfolios of assets thereby reducing exposure to individual equities.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equity securities.
| 22 224 4 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 58 Risk management continued Equity risk is also managed using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures and options.
Businesses actively model the performance of equities through the use of risk models, in particular to understand the impact of equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
At 31 December 2014 the Groups shareholder funds held 2 billion notional of equity hedge put spreads, with up to 9 months to maturity with an average strike of 81-61% of the prevailing market levels on 31 December 2014.
Sensitivity to changes in equity prices is given in section j risk and capital management below.
ii Property price risk The Group is subject to property price risk directly due to holdings of investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide and indirectly through investments in mortgages and mortgage backed securities.
Investment in property is managed at business unit level, and is subject to local regulations on asset admissibility, liquidity requirements and the expectations of policyholders.
As at 31 December 2014, no material derivative contracts had been entered into to mitigate the effects of changes in property prices.
Sensitivity to changes in property prices is given in section j risk and capital management below.
iii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from the Groups investments in long-term debt and fixed income securities and their movement relative to the value placed on the insurance liabilities.
A number of policyholder product features have an influence on the Groups interest rate risk.
The major features include guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
Details of material guarantees and options are given in note 43.
Exposure to interest rate risk is monitored through several measures that include duration, economic capital modelling, sensitivity testing and stress and scenario testing.
The impact of exposure to sustained low interest rates is considered within our scenario testing.
The Group typically manages interest rate risk by investing in fixed interest securities which closely match the interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities where this is available.
In particular, a key objective is to match the duration of our annuity liabilities with assets of the same duration.
These assets include corporate bonds, residential mortgages and commercial mortgages.
Should they default before maturity, it is assumed that the Group can reinvest in assets of a similar risk and return profile, which is subject to market conditions.
Interest rate risk is also managed in some business units using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options, swaps, caps and floors.
Some of the Groups products, principally participating contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will impact on profits through a change in the interest spread the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the investment income we are able to earn on the investments supporting our obligations under those contracts.
The primary markets where Aviva is exposed to this risk are the UK, France and Italy.
The low interest rate environment in a number of markets around the world has resulted in our current reinvestment yields being lower than the overall current portfolio yield, primarily for our investments in fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans.
We anticipate that interest rates may remain below historical averages for an extended period of time and that financial markets may continue to have periods of high volatility.
Investing activity will continue to decrease the portfolio yield as long as market yields remain below the current portfolio level.
We expect the decline in portfolio yield will result in lower net investment income in future periods.
Certain of the Groups product lines, such as protection, are not significantly sensitive to interest rate or market movements.
For unit-linked business, the shareholder margins emerging are typically a mixture of annual management fees and risk expense charges.
Risk and expense margins will be largely unaffected by low interest rates.
Annual management fees may increase in the short term as the move towards low interest rates increases the value of unit funds.
However, in the medium term, unit funds will grow at a lower rate which will reduce fund charges.
For the UK annuities business interest rate exposure is mitigated by closely matching the duration of liabilities with assets of the same duration.
The UK participating business includes contracts with features such as guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
These liabilities are managed through duration matching of assets and liabilities and the use of derivatives, including swaptions.
As a result, the Groups exposure to sustained low interest rates on this portfolio is not material.
The Groups key exposure to low interest rates arises through its other participating contracts, principally in Italy and France.
Some of these contracts also include features such as guaranteed minimum bonuses, guaranteed investment returns and guaranteed surrender values.
In a low interest rate environment there is a risk that the yield on assets might not be sufficient to cover these obligations.
For certain of its participating contracts the Group is able to amend guaranteed crediting rates.
Our ability to lower crediting rates may be limited by competition, bonus mechanisms and contractual arrangements.
Details of material guarantees and options are given in Note 43.
In addition, the following table summarises the weighted average minimum guaranteed crediting rates and weighted average book value yields on assets as at 31 December 2014 for our Italian and French participating contracts, where the Groups key exposure to sustained low interest rates arises.
Weighted average Weighted minimum average guaranteed book value Participating crediting yield on contract rate assets liabilities m France 0.79% 3.91% 61,983 Italy 1.77% 3.74% 8,873 1 Other N A N A 41,210 Total N A N A 112,066 1.
Other includes UK participating business IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 2 225 25 58 Risk management continued Profit before tax on General Insurance and Health Insurance business is generally a mixture of insurance, expense and investment returns.
The asset portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities and the reduction in interest rates in recent years has reduced the investment component of profit.
The portfolio investment yield and average total invested assets in our general insurance and health business are set out in the table below.
Portfolio Average investment assets 1 yield m 2012 3.70% 18,802 2013 3.10% 18,352 2014 2.76% 17,200 1 Before realised and unrealised gains and losses and investment expenses The nature of the business means that prices in certain circumstances can be increased to maintain overall profitability.
This is subject to the competitive environment in each market.
To the extent that there are further falls in interest rates the investment yield would be expected to decrease further in future periods.
Sensitivity to changes in interest rates is given in section j risk and capital management below.
This analysis shows an initial benefit to profit before tax and shareholders equity from a 1% decrease in interest rates due to the increase in market value of the backing fixed income securities.
However, in subsequent years the reduction in portfolio yield will result in lower net investment income.
Further information on borrowings is included in note 50. iv Inflation risk Inflation risk arises primarily from the Groups exposure to general insurance claims inflation, to inflation linked benefits within the defined benefit staff pension schemes and within the UK annuity portfolio and to expense inflation.
Increases in long-term inflation expectations are closely linked to long-term interest rates and so are frequently considered with interest rate risk.
Exposure to inflation risk is monitored through economic capital modelling, sensitivity testing and stress and scenario testing.
The Group typically manages inflation risk through its investment strategy and, in particular, by investing in inflation linked securities and through a variety of derivative instruments, including inflation linked swaps.
v Currency risk The Group has minimal exposure to currency risk from financial instruments held by business units in currencies other than their functional currencies, as nearly all such holdings are backing either by unit-linked or with-profit contract liabilities or hedging.
The Group operates internationally and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of various currencies.
Approximately half of the Groups premium income arises in currencies other than sterling and the Groups net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are euro, sterling and Canadian dollars.
The Group does not hedge foreign currency revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
Businesses aim to maintain sufficient assets in local currency to meet local currency liabilities, however movements may impact the value of the Groups consolidated shareholders equity which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored and managed centrally, against pre-determined limits.
These exposures are managed by aligning the deployment of regulatory capital by currency with the Groups regulatory capital requirements by currency.
Currency borrowings and derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Groups total equity deployment by currency including assets held for sale was: Sterling Euro CAD$ Other Total m m m m m Capital 31 December 2014 8,050 2,392 1,016 818 12,276 Capital 31 December 2013 4,942 4,178 987 910 11,017 A 10% change in sterling to euro Canada$ CAD period-end foreign exchange rates would have had the following impact on total equity.
10% 10% 10% increase decrease in 10% increase decrease in in sterling sterling euro in sterling sterling euro rate rate CAD$ rate CAD$ rate m m m m Net assets at 31 December 2014 78 210 96 91 Net assets at 31 December 2013 260 360 81 99 A 10% change in sterling to euro Canada$ CAD average foreign exchange rates applied to translate foreign currency profits would have had the following impact on profit before tax, excluding discontinued operations.
10% 10% 10% increase decrease 10% increase decrease in sterling in sterling in sterling in sterling euro rate euro rate CAD$ rate CAD$ rate m m m m Impact on profit before tax 31 December 2014 44 25 15 20 1 Impact on profit before tax 31 December 2013 restated 3 1 8 2 1 Restated to disclose the impact of a 10% change in the average exchange rate applied to translate foreign currency profits into sterling.
In previous years, the sensitivity of profit before tax to changes in foreign exchange rates was calculated on the basis of a 10% change in the period-end exchange rate which was used to calculate the average exchange rate applied to translate foreign currency profits.
We consider the change in basis of calculation better reflects the sensitivity of profit before tax to foreign currency risk.
| 2 226 26 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 58 Risk management continued The balance sheet changes arise from retranslation of business unit statements of financial position from their functional currencies into sterling, with above movements being taken through the currency translation reserve.
These balance sheet movements in exchange rates therefore have no impact on profit.
Net asset and profit before tax figures are stated after taking account of the effect of currency hedging activities.
vi Derivatives risk Derivatives are used by a number of the businesses.
Activity is overseen by the Group ALM and Group Risk teams, which monitor exposure levels and approves large or complex transactions.
Derivatives are primarily used for efficient investment management, risk hedging purposes, or to structure specific retail savings products.
The Group applies strict requirements to the administration and valuation processes it uses, and has a control framework that is consistent with market and industry practice for the activity that is undertaken.
vii Correlation risk The Group recognises that lapse behaviour and potential increases in consumer expectations are sensitive to and interdependent with market movements and interest rates.
These interdependencies are taken into consideration in the internal economic capital model and in scenario analysis.
d Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash form.
The relatively illiquid nature of insurance liabilities is a potential source of additional investment return by allowing us to invest in higher yielding, but less liquid assets such as commercial mortgages.
The Group seeks to ensure that it maintains sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due through the application of a Group liquidity risk policy and business standard and through the development of its liquidity risk management plan.
At Group and business unit level, there is a liquidity risk appetite which requires that sufficient liquid resources be maintained to cover net outflows in a stress scenario.
In addition to the existing liquid resources and expected inflows, the Group maintains significant undrawn committed borrowing facilities 1,550 million from a range of leading international banks to further mitigate this risk.
Maturity analyses The following tables show the maturities of our insurance and investment contract liabilities, and of the financial and reinsurance assets to meet them.
A maturity analysis of the contractual amounts payable for borrowings and derivatives is given in notes 50 and 59, respectively.
Contractual obligations under operating leases and capital commitments are given in note 54. i Analysis of maturity of insurance and investment contract liabilities For non-linked insurance business, the following table shows the gross liability at 31 December 2014 and 2013 analysed by remaining duration.
The total liability is split by remaining duration in proportion to the cash-flows expected to arise during that period, as permitted under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
Almost all linked business and non-linked investment contracts may be surrendered or transferred on demand.
For such contracts, the earliest contractual maturity date is therefore the current statement of financial position date, for a surrender amount approximately equal to the current statement of financial position liability.
We expect surrenders, transfers and maturities to occur over many years, and the tables reflect the expected cash flows for these contracts.
However, contractually, the total liability for linked business and non-linked investment contracts would be shown in the within 1 year column below, and previously the total liability for linked business was shown in the within 1 year column.
Changes in durations between 2013 and 2014 reflect evolution of the portfolio, and changes to the models for projecting cash-flows.
This table includes assets held for sale.
On demand or within Over 15 Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years years At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 85,723 7,980 25,318 32,534 19,891 Investment contracts non-linked 55,634 3,311 10,852 23,919 17,552 Linked business 75,341 8,141 21,444 27,673 18,083 General insurance and health 13,993 6,014 5,400 2,115 464 Total contract liabilities 230,691 25,446 63,014 86,241 55,990 On demand or within Total 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years Over 15 years At 31 December 2013 m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 81,458 7,900 25,223 29,620 18,715 Investment contracts non-linked 60,111 2,098 10,422 17,594 29,997 Linked business 73,458 6,244 16,403 23,483 27,328 General insurance and health 14,534 6,350 5,591 2,197 396 Total contract liabilities 229,561 22,592 57,639 72,894 76,436 IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 227 227 58 Risk management continued ii Analysis of maturity of financial assets The following table provides an analysis, by maturity date of the principal, of the carrying value of financial assets which are available to fund the repayment of liabilities as they crystallise.
This table excludes assets held for sale.
On demand No fixed or within Over term Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years perpetual At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Debt securities 131,661 19,097 37,404 75,006 154 Equity securities 35,619 35,619 Other investments 35,358 29,011 940 3,553 1,854 Loans 25,260 1,489 2,517 21,249 5 Cash and cash equivalents 23,105 23,105 251,003 72,702 40,861 99,808 37,632 On demand No fixed or within Over term Total 1 year 1-5 years 5 years perpetual 1 At 31 December 2013 Restated m m m m m Debt securities 124,385 15,146 35,624 73,613 2 Equity securities 37,326 37,326 Other investments 32,316 28,227 812 1,382 1,895 Loans 23,879 2,029 3,909 17,920 21 Cash and cash equivalents 26,131 26,131 244,037 71,533 40,345 92,915 39,244 1 Restated for the adoption of amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation see note 1 for details The assets above are analysed in accordance with the earliest possible redemption date of the instrument at the initiation of the Group.
Where an instrument is transferable back to the issuer on demand, such as most unit trusts or similar types of investment vehicle, it is included in the On demand or within 1 year column.
Debt securities with no fixed contractual maturity date are generally callable at the option of the issuer at the date the coupon rate is reset under the contractual terms of the instrument.
The terms for resetting the coupon are such that we expect the securities to be redeemed at this date, as it would be uneconomic for the issuer not to do so, and for liquidity management purposes we manage these securities on this basis.
The first repricing and call date is normally ten years or more after the date of issuance.
Most of the Groups investments in equity securities and fixed maturity securities are market traded and therefore, if required, can be liquidated for cash at short notice.
e Life insurance risk Life insurance risk in the Group arises through its exposure to mortality and morbidity risks and exposure to worse than anticipated operating experience on factors such as persistency levels, exercising of policy holder options and management and administration expenses.
The Group chooses to take measured amounts of life insurance risk provided that the relevant business has the appropriate core skills to assess and price the risk and adequate returns are available.
The underlying risk profile of our life insurance risks, primarily persistency, longevity, mortality and expense risk, has remained stable during 2014, although the current continued relatively low levels of interest rates have increased our sensitivity to longevity shocks compared to historical norms.
Our economic exposure to longevity risk was reduced as a result of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme entering into a longevity swap covering 5 billion of pensioner in payment scheme liabilities on 5 March 2014, while any significant reduction in individual annuity new business volumes as a result of the UK budget changes to compulsory annuitisation will also reduce our longevity risks exposure over the longer term to the extent not offset by increased bulk purchase annuity volumes.
Despite this longevity risk remains the Groups most significant life insurance risk due to the Groups existing annuity portfolio.
Persistency risk remains significant and continues to have a volatile outlook with underlying performance linked to some degree to economic conditions.
However, businesses across the Group have continued to make progress with a range of customer retention activities.
The Group has continued to write considerable volumes of life protection business, and to utilise reinsurance to reduce exposure to potential losses.
More generally, life insurance risks are believed to provide a significant diversification against other risks in the portfolio.
Life insurance risks are modelled within the internal economic capital model and subject to sensitivity and stress and scenario testing.
The assumption and management of life insurance risks is governed by the group-wide business standards covering underwriting, pricing, product design and management, in-force management, claims handling, and reinsurance.
The individual life insurance risks are managed as follows: Mortality and morbidity risks are mitigated by use of reinsurance.
The Group allows businesses to select reinsurers, from those approved by the Group, based on local factors, but retains oversight of the overall exposures and monitor that the aggregation of risk ceded is within credit risk appetite.
Longevity risk and internal experience analysis are monitored against the latest external industry data and emerging trends.
Whilst individual businesses are responsible for reserving and pricing for annuity business, the Group monitors the exposure to this risk and any associated capital implications.
The Group has used reinsurance solutions to reduce the risks from longevity and continually monitors and evaluates emerging market solutions to mitigate this risk further.
Persistency risk is managed at a business unit level through frequent monitoring of company experience, and benchmarked against local market information.
Generally, persistency risk arises from customers lapsing their policies earlier than has been assumed.
Where possible the financial impact of lapses is reduced through appropriate product design.
Businesses also implement specific initiatives to improve the retention of policies which may otherwise lapse.
The Group has developed guidelines on persistency management.
Expense risk is primarily managed by the business units through the assessment of business unit profitability and frequent monitoring of expense levels.
| 228 228 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 58 Risk management continued Embedded derivatives The Group has exposure to a variety of embedded derivatives in its long-term savings business due to product features offering varying degrees of guaranteed benefits at maturity or on early surrender, along with options to convert their benefits into different products on pre-agreed terms.
The extent of the impact of these embedded derivatives differs considerably between business units and exposes Aviva to changes in policyholder behaviour in the exercise of options as well as market risk.
Examples of each type of embedded derivative affecting the Group are: Options: call, put, surrender and maturity options, guaranteed annuity options, options to cease premium payment, options for withdrawals free of market value adjustment, annuity options, and guaranteed insurability options.
Guarantees: embedded floor guaranteed return, maturity guarantee, guaranteed death benefit, and guaranteed minimum rate of annuity payment.
Other: indexed interest or principal payments, maturity value, loyalty bonus.
The impact of these is reflected in the economic capital model and MCEV reporting and managed as part of the asset liability framework.
Further disclosure on financial guarantees and options embedded in contracts and their inclusion in insurance and investment contract liabilities is provided in Note 43. f General insurance risk Types of risk General insurance risk in the Group arises from: Fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of claims and claim settlements relative to expectations: Unexpected claims arising from a single source or cause: Inaccurate pricing of risks or inappropriate underwriting of risks when underwritten: and Inadequate reinsurance protection or other risk transfer techniques.
Aviva has a preference for general insurance risk in measured amounts for explicit reward, in line with our core skills in underwriting and pricing.
The majority of the general insurance business underwritten by the Group continues to be short tail in nature such as motor, household and commercial property insurances.
The Groups underwriting strategy and appetite is communicated via specific policy statements, related business standards and guidelines.
General insurance risk is managed primarily at business unit level with oversight at the Group level.
Claims reserving is undertaken by local actuaries in the various general insurance businesses and is also subject to periodic external reviews.
Reserving processes are further detailed in note 41 insurance liabilities.
The vast majority of the Groups general insurance business is managed and priced in the same country as the domicile of the customer.
Management of general insurance risks Significant insurance risks will be reported under the risk management framework.
Additionally, the economic capital model is used to assess the risks that each general insurance business unit, and the Group as a whole, is exposed to, quantifying their impact and calculating appropriate capital requirements.
Business units have developed mechanisms that identify, quantify and manage accumulated exposures to contain them within the limits of the appetite of the Group.
The business units are assisted by the General Insurance Council which provides technical input for major decisions which fall outside individual delegated limits or escalations outside group risk preferences, group risk accumulation, concentration and profitability limits.
Reinsurance strategy Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit and Group level to verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any developments in exposure and the risk appetite of the Group.
The basis of these purchases is underpinned by analysis of economic capital, earnings and capital volatility, cash flow and liquidity and the Groups franchise value.
Detailed actuarial analysis is used to calculate the Groups extreme risk profile and then design cost and capital efficient reinsurance programmes to mitigate these risks to within agreed appetites.
For businesses writing general insurance we analyse the natural catastrophe exposure using external probabilistic catastrophe models widely used by the rest of the re insurance industry.
The Group cedes much of its worldwide catastrophe risk to third-party reinsurers.
The total Group potential loss from its most concentrated catastrophe exposure peril Northern Europe Windstorm is approximately 150 million, for a one in ten year annual loss scenario, compared to approximately 260 million when measured on a one in a hundred year annual loss scenario.
g Asset management risk Aviva is directly exposed to the risks associated with operating an asset management business through its ownership of Aviva Investors.
The underlying risk profile of our asset management risk is derived from investment performance, specialist investment professionals and leadership, product development capabilities, fund liquidity, margin, client retention, regulatory developments, fiduciary and contractual responsibilities.
The risk profile is regularly monitored.
Investment performance has remained strong over 2014 despite some positions being impacted by the volatility of global markets.
A client relationship team is in place to manage client retention risk, while all new asset management products undergo a review and approval process at each stage of the product development process, including approvals from legal, compliance and risk functions.
Investment performance against client objectives relative to agreed benchmarks is monitored as part of our investment performance and risk management process, and subject to further independent oversight and challenge by a specialist risk team, reporting directly to the Aviva Investors CRO.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 2 229 29 58 Risk management continued h Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events including changes in the regulatory environment.
We have limited appetite for operational risk and aim to reduce these risks as far as is commercially sensible.
Our business units are primarily responsible for identifying and managing operational risks within their businesses, within the group-wide operational risk framework including the risk and control self-assessment process.
Businesses must be satisfied that all material risks falling outside our risk tolerances are being mitigated, monitored and reported to an appropriate level.
Any risks with a high potential impact are monitored centrally on a regular basis.
Businesses use key indicator data to help monitor the status of the risk and control environment.
They also identify and capture loss events, taking appropriate action to address actual control breakdowns and promote internal learning.
i Brand and reputation risk We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the outcome of regulatory investigations, media speculation and negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, inadequate services, whether or not founded, could impact our brands or reputation.
Any of our brands or our reputation could also be affected if products or services recommended by us or any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether or not the expectations are founded or customers expectations for the product change.
We seek to reduce this risk to as low a level as commercially sensible.
The FCA regularly considers whether we are meeting the requirement to treat our customers fairly and we make use of various metrics to assess our own performance, including customer advocacy, retention and complaints.
Failure to meet these requirements could also impact our brands or reputation.
If we do not manage the perception of our brands and reputation successfully, it could cause existing customers or agents to withdraw from our business and potential customers or agents to choose not to do business with us.
j Risk and capital management i Sensitivity test analysis The Group uses a number of sensitivity tests to understand the volatility of earnings, the volatility of its capital requirements, and to manage its capital more efficiently.
Sensitivities to economic and operating experience are regularly produced on the Groups key financial performance metrics to inform the Groups decision making and planning processes, and as part of the framework for identifying and quantifying the risks to which each of its business units, and the Group as a whole, are exposed.
For long-term business in particular, sensitivities of market consistent performance indicators to changes in both economic and non-economic experience are continually used to manage the business and to inform the decision making process.
ii Life insurance and investment contracts The nature of long-term business is such that a number of assumptions are made in compiling these financial statements.
Assumptions are made about investment returns, expenses, mortality rates and persistency in connection with the in-force policies for each business unit.
Assumptions are best estimates based on historic and expected experience of the business.
A number of the key assumptions for the Groups central scenario are disclosed elsewhere in these statements for both IFRS reporting and reporting under MCEV methodology.
iii General insurance and health business General insurance and health claim liabilities are estimated by using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
These methods extrapolate the claims development for each accident year based on the observed development of earlier years.
In most cases, no explicit assumptions are made as projections are based on assumptions implicit in the historic claims.
iv Sensitivity test results Illustrative results of sensitivity testing for long-term business, general insurance and health business and the fund management and non-insurance business are set out below.
For each sensitivity test the impact of a reasonably possible change in a single factor is shown, with other assumptions left unchanged.
Sensitivity factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return The impact of a change in market interest rates by a 1% increase or decrease.
The test allows consistently for similar changes to investment returns and movements in the market value of backing fixed interest securities.
Credit spreads The impact of a 0.5% increase in credit spreads over risk-free interest rates on corporate bonds and other non-sovereign credit assets.
The test allows for any consequential impact on liability valuations Equity property market values The impact of a change in equity property market values by 10%.
Expenses The impact of an increase in maintenance expenses by 10%.
Assurance mortality morbidity life insurance only The impact of an increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts by 5%.
Annuitant mortality long-term insurance only The impact of a reduction in mortality rates for annuity contracts by 5%.
Gross loss ratios non-long-term insurance only The impact of an increase in gross loss ratios for general insurance and health business by 5%.
| 23 230 0 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 58 Risk management continued Long-term business Sensitivities as at 31 December 2014 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant rates rates spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 2014 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 10 60 20 175 70 25 5 45 Insurance non-participating 155 130 425 40 40 80 50 590 Investment participating 15 10 5 Investment non-participating 40 30 10 55 60 35 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 75 45 60 20 20 Total 295 145 525 60 50 145 55 635 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant rates rates spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 2014 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 10 60 20 175 70 25 5 45 Insurance non-participating 155 130 425 40 40 80 50 590 Investment participating 15 10 5 Investment non-participating 40 30 10 55 60 35 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 115 80 65 20 20 Total 335 180 530 60 50 145 55 635 Sensitivities as at 31 December 2013 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant rates rates spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 2013 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 45 60 10 20 30 5 40 Insurance non-participating 145 140 415 5 10 80 60 450 Investment participating 10 5 5 5 5 10 Investment non-participating 20 20 5 5 5 15 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 35 55 25 40 45 Total 255 220 510 35 65 135 65 490 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant rates rates spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 2013 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 45 60 10 20 30 5 40 Insurance non-participating 145 140 415 5 10 80 60 450 Investment participating 10 5 5 5 5 10 Investment non-participating 20 20 5 5 5 15 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 75 100 35 45 45 Total 295 265 520 40 65 135 65 490 Changes in sensitivities between 2014 and 2013 reflect movements in market interest rates, portfolio growth, changes to asset mix and the relative durations of assets and liabilities and asset liability management actions.
The sensitivities to economic movements relate mainly to business in the UK.
In general, a fall in market interest rates has a beneficial impact on non-participating business, due to the increase in market value of fixed interest securities and the relative durations of assets and liabilities.
Similarly a rise in interest rates has a negative impact.
Mortality and expense sensitivities also relate primarily to the UK.
General insurance and health business sensitivities as at 31 December 2014 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Gross loss rates rates spreads property property Expenses ratios 2014 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 260 250 130 55 55 105 280 Net of reinsurance 305 295 130 55 55 105 270 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Gross loss rates rates spreads property property Expenses ratios 2014 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 260 250 130 60 60 20 280 Net of reinsurance 305 295 130 60 60 20 270 IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 231 231 58 Risk management continued Sensitivities as at 31 December 2013 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Gross loss rates rates spreads property property Expenses ratios 2013 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 245 235 125 50 50 110 300 Net of reinsurance 295 295 125 50 50 110 285 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity Gross loss rates Rates spreads property property Expenses ratios 2013 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 245 235 125 50 50 25 300 Net of reinsurance 295 295 125 50 50 25 285 For general insurance and health, the impact of the expense sensitivity on profit also includes the increase in ongoing administration expenses, in addition to the increase in the claims handling expense provision.
Fund management and non-insurance business sensitivities as at 31 December 2014 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity rates rates spreads property property 2014 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% Total 5 15 25 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity rates rates spreads property property 2014 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% Total 5 15 25 Sensitivities as at 31 December 2013 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity rates Rates spreads property property 2013 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% Total 20 5 15 Interest Interest Credit Equity Equity rates rates spreads property property 2013 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% Total 20 5 15 Limitations of sensitivity analysis The above tables demonstrate the effect of a change in a key assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged.
In reality, there is a correlation between the assumptions and other factors.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities are non-linear, and larger or smaller impacts should not be interpolated or extrapolated from these results.
The sensitivity analyses do not take into consideration that the Groups assets and liabilities are actively managed.
Additionally, the financial position of the Group may vary at the time that any actual market movement occurs.
For example, the Groups financial risk management strategy aims to manage the exposure to market fluctuations.
As investment markets move past various trigger levels, management actions could include selling investments, changing investment portfolio allocation, adjusting bonuses credited to policyholders, and taking other protective action.
A number of the business units use passive assumptions to calculate their long-term business liabilities.
Consequently, a change in the underlying assumptions may not have any impact on the liabilities, whereas assets held at market value in the statement of financial position will be affected.
In these circumstances, the different measurement bases for liabilities and assets may lead to volatility in shareholder equity.
Similarly, for general insurance liabilities, the interest rate sensitivities only affect profit and equity where explicit assumptions are made regarding interest discount rates or future inflation.
Other limitations in the above sensitivity analyses include the use of hypothetical market movements to demonstrate potential risk that only represent the Groups view of possible near-term market changes that cannot be predicted with any certainty, and the assumption that all interest rates move in an identical fashion.
