| 15 152 2 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 Finance costs This note analyses the interest costs on our borrowings which are described in note 50 and similar charges.
Finance costs comprise: 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Interest expense on core structural borrowings Subordinated debt 289 305 Long term senior debt 19 21 Commercial paper 2 2 310 328 Interest expense on operational borrowings Amounts owed to financial institutions 48 70 Securitised mortgage loan notes at fair value 87 89 135 159 Interest on collateral received 18 20 Net finance charge on pension schemes 13 20 Unwind of discount on GI reserves 6 5 Other similar charges 58 77 Total finance costs from continuing operations 540 609 Total finance costs from discontinued operations 16 Total finance costs 540 625 9 Long-term business economic volatility The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal performance management, the effects of short-term economic volatility are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term business, as described below.
a Definitions Operating profit for long-term business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with consistent allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Operating profit includes the effect of variance in experience for non-economic items, such as mortality, persistency and expenses, and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions, where not treated as exceptional.
Changes due to economic items, such as market value movements and interest rate changes, which give rise to variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside operating profit.
b Economic volatility The investment variances and economic assumption changes excluded from the long-term business operating profit are as follows: 2014 2013 Long-term business m m Investment variances and economic assumptions continuing operations 72 49 Investment variances and economic assumptions discontinued operations 452 Investment variances and economic assumptions 72 403 For continuing operations, investment variances were 72 million positive 2013: 49 million negative mainly driven by lower risk free rates and narrowing credit spreads on government and corporate bonds in Italy and Spain.
Adverse variances in the UK were due to the adverse impact of falling reinvestment yields net of improved underlying property values on commercial mortgages partly offset by a change to the model used to value certain equity release assets and the consequential impact on the liabilities that they back.
In 2013, for continuing operations, positive variances from narrowing spreads in Italy and Spain were offset by an increase in allowance for credit defaults in the UK.
Discontinued operations represent the US business disposed of in 2013, which benefitted from favourable equity market performance on embedded derivatives in 2013. c Methodology The expected investment returns and corresponding expected movements in long-term business liabilities are calculated separately for each principal long-term business unit.
The expected return on investments for both policyholders and shareholders funds is based on opening economic assumptions applied to the expected funds under management over the reporting period.
Expected investment return assumptions are derived actively, based on market yields on risk-free fixed interest assets at the end of each financial year.
The same margins are applied on a consistent basis across the Group to gross risk-free yields, to obtain investment return assumptions for equities and properties.
Expected funds under management are equal to the opening value of funds under management, adjusted for sales and purchases during the period arising from expected operating experience.
The actual investment return is affected by differences between the actual and expected funds under management and changes in asset mix, as well as movements in interest rates.
To the extent that these differences arise from the operating experience of the long-term business, or management decisions to change asset mix, the effect is included in the operating profit.
The residual difference between actual and expected investment return is included in investment variances, outside operating profit but included in profit before tax.
