Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 293 293 of the Groups offer to acquire Friends Life Group Limited.
The and regulations of the EU member state in which they are dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, but based, but are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which is considered foreseeable and is therefore deducted from the 31 will continue to have a significant influence on the legislative December 2014 IGD surplus.
In contrast, the 2013 final dividend environment in the UK and other EU markets.
of 0.3 billion was not foreseeable as at 31 December 2013, The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be and was not deducted from the 2013 year-end IGD surplus.
implemented into local national legislation within each EU The key movements over the period are set out in the member country.
These directives can either be framed as following table: minimum or maximum harmonisation for the standards for national legislatures to meet.
National governments may not bn pass laws which fail to meet the standards set out in a directive, IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2013 3.6 but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go Operating profits net of other income and expenses 1.2 Dividends and appropriations 0.6 beyond those required other than where a directive on a 1 Market movements including foreign exchange 0.2 maximum harmonisation basis applies.
Even greater detail may Hybrid debt redemption 0.2 be imposed through the rules and regulations of national Internal reinsurance 0.3 Pension scheme funding 0.2 regulators and, for financial services businesses these rules can Acquisitions and disposals 0.2 be extensive.
Increase in capital resources requirement 0.3 The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 excluding through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on foreseeable dividend 3.6 the principle of home country control, which makes the home Foreseeable dividend 0.4 country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with all Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2014 3.2 applicable regulation.
1 Market movements include the impact of equity, credit spread, interest rate and foreign exchange movements net of the effect of hedging instruments.
In the period market movements also include positive variances in the Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services UK due to a change in the model used to value certain equity release assets and the consequential impact on industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU include: the liabilities that they back, offset by the higher cost of replacing mortgages after a fall in the risk free interest rate.
Capital commitments European System for Financial Supervision Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital The European System for Financial Supervision comprises European expenditures of investment property, property and equipment Supervisory Authorities, including the European Insurance and and intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA.
Its aims include achieving consolidated financial statements, are as follows: consistent regulation and supervision within the European Union.
2014 2013 2012 In this respect it is able to issue supervisory guidelines on a comply m m m or explain basis to National Competent Authorities and where Investment property 97 3 6 European Directives provide Delegated Acts, it may propose Property and equipment 8 24 36 Regulatory Technical Standards to the Commission.
Total 105 27 42 Third Life and Non-Life Directives Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on These directives implemented the home country control investment properties are nil 2013: nil, 2012: nil.
We have principle for life and non-life insurance business in the midcapital commitments to joint ventures of 70 million 2013: 1990s and placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, 140 million, 2012: 41 million.
These commitments are actuarial reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance expected to be funded through operational cash flow without issues on the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed recourse to core structural borrowings.
to conduct insurance business in one member state may rely on their home country regulation to passport into all other Regulation member states to conduct business without having to be Compliance separately licensed in each.
The general exception is selling In both our insurance and fund management businesses, activity which continues to be regulated by the state in which matters may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection the sale takes place.
visits or other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and resolution with industry regulators.
The Group needs to ensure Insurance Groups Directive IGD that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, The IGD required member states to introduce the following and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies resourced.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, which are part of a group: with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a timely An adjustment margin to the solvency calculation in relation manner.
to participating interests in other insurance undertakings in order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same Overview of regulation as it affects our business regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
Our principal insurance and fund management operations are in An additional parent undertaking solvency margin calculation the UK, Europe, Canada and the Asia Pacific region.
We are analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to above, to be therefore subject to financial services regulation and local applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
regulatory supervision in all these areas, as individually covered The introduction of solo supervision requirements, including rules below.
as to internal control within the insurance undertaking regarding As the Groups parent company is based in the UK, both EU the production of information relevant to supplementary legislation and UK regulatory rules can impact Avivas business supervision, the exchange of information within the Group and practices worldwide.
Regulators supervising the Group cothe supervision of intra-group transactions.
ordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between competent regulatory authorities of member states.
The European Union In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws
