| 2 294 94 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued Since 31 December 2006, the Group capital resources requirements HLA.
In the absence of a global capital requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation framework for insurers, the IAIS has developed a Basic Capital mentioned above has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes Requirement BCR to provide a comparable foundation for the a requirement to maintain the Group capital resources, rather application of HLA to G-SIIs.
The IAIS plans to develop its than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies approach to HLA during 2015 which will be applicable to G-SIIs operating under PRA rules.
Reinsurance Directive Insurance Capital Standard ICS Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all The Financial Stability Board FSB has stated that a sound reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member capital and supervisory framework for the insurance sector is state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict essential for supporting financial stability.
In this respect the IAIS requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU will develop a work plan to develop a comprehensive, group through the single market passport process.
wide supervisory and regulatory framework for Internationally Active Insurance Groups IAIGs, including a quantitative capital Solvency II standard.
The ICS will be incorporated into the global From 1 January 2016 the Solvency II will replace the directives framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance listed above Third Life and non Life Directives, Insurance Groups groups ComFrame that the IAIS is developing.
The IAIS plans to Directive and Reinsurance Directive.
Solvency II will be a new develop the ICS by 2016 for implementation from 2019 along harmonised European prudential framework that reflects risk with the rest of ComFrame.
management practices to define required capital and manage risk.
Future EU developments The framework has three main pillars: There are a number of European dossiers that are expected to Pillar 1 consists of the quantitative requirements for example continue to progress during 2015, including Packaged Retail the amount of capital an insurer should hold : and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPs that will Pillar 2 sets out requirements for the governance and risk introduce common product disclosure standards, the review of management of insurers, as well as their supervision: and the Insurance Mediation Directive IMD and MiFID.
Pillar 3 focuses on disclosure and transparency requirements.
United Kingdom Distance Marketing Directive The regulatory structure Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are On 1 April 2013 the Financial Services Authority was replaced by required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in the Prudential Regulation Authority the PRA and the order to protect consumers by: Financial Conduct Authority the FCA.
The reforms were setting minimum standards for information that must be implemented under the Financial Services Act 2012 the FS provided to consumers before entering into a financial services Act which made extensive amendments to existing legislation contract by distance means: and including the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period in FSMA.
The FS Act also contains some standalone provisions.
which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England and is responsible for the micro-prudential regulation of banks, Insurance Mediation Directive building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: firms.
ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have The PRA has two statutory objectives: been registered on the basis of a minimum set of professional to promote the safety and soundness of regulated firms: and and financial requirements: in the case of insurers, to contribute to securing an ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate in appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
other member states by availing themselves of the freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch: and The FCA is a company limited by guarantee, accountable to the impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide UK Treasury, and through the Treasury, to the UK Parliament.
It specified minimum information to potential customers.
is operationally independent of government and entirely funded Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID by the firms it regulates.
The FCAs strategic objective as set out MiFID, which superseded the earlier Investment Services in the FS Act is to ensure that markets function well and it is Directive, builds on the home country control principle, responsible for the conduct regulation of all financial services extending the range of core investment services and activities firms including those prudentially regulated by the PRA, such as that may be passported from one member state to another, insurers.
In addition, the FCA prudentially regulates those clarifying the allocation of responsibilities between home and financial services firms not supervised by the PRA, including host country jurisdictions, and introducing greater most asset managers.
The FCA has three operational objectives: harmonisation governing the organisation and conduct of securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: business of investment firms.
protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system: and Systemic Risk promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers In July 2013 the Financial Stability Board FSB designated nine in the markets for financial services.
insurance groups as Global Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs.
As an international insurer, Aviva is one of the firms that Within their respective jurisdictions, the PRA and FCA have has been designated as a G-SII.
Alongside the FSBs designation authority to make rules and issue guidance, taking into account the International Association of Insurance Supervisors IAIS relevant EU directives, impacting individuals and firms published policy measures that will apply to authorised to conduct regulated activities Authorised Persons G-SIIs.
The policy measures include enhanced supervision, and Authorised Firms.
recovery and resolution planning, the preparation of systemic Under the FSMA no person may carry on, or purport to carry risk management and liquidity risk management plans.
The on, a regulated activity by way of business in the UK unless he is policy measures also include higher loss absorbency an Authorised Person or an exempt person.
A firm granted Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 295 95 permission to carry on regulated activities becomes an UK regulated entities within Aviva plc Authorised Person for the purposes of FSMA.
Regulated DUAL REGULATED SOLO REGULATED activities are prescribed in the FSMA Regulated Activities Aviva Annuity UK Ltd Aviva Equity Release UK Ltd Order 2001 and include banking, insurance and investment Aviva Health UK Ltd Aviva Insurance Services UK Ltd business, stakeholder pension schemes, insurance mediation Aviva Insurance Ltd Aviva Investors London Ltd and certain mortgage mediation and lending activities.
Aviva International Insurance Ltd Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold Aviva Investors Pensions Ltd Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Ltd conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd Aviva Investors UK Funds Ltd conduct that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
Gresham Insurance Company Ltd Aviva Life International Ltd Authorised Firms must also operate in accordance with the The Ocean Marine Insurance Aviva Life Services UK Ltd FCAs Principles for Business if solo regulated and the PRAs Company Ltd Fundamental Rules and FCAs Principles for Business if dual Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd regulated.
The FCA has 11 high level principles for conducting Aviva Wrap UK Ltd financial services business in the UK, including maintenance of ORN Capital LLP adequate systems and controls, treating customers fairly, and TenetConnect Ltd communicating with customers in a manner that is clear, fair TenetConnect Services Ltd and not misleading.
The PRA has 9 Fundamental Rules including organising and controlling its affairs responsibly and TenetLime Ltd effectively and acting in a prudent manner.
Approved persons and controllers The PRA and FCA regulatory regimes are based on the Both the PRA and FCA place great emphasis on the principle of principle that firms should have effective systems and controls, senior management responsibility.
The directors of, and senior including robust risk management, which are appropriate to the managers carrying out controlled function roles as defined in the size, complexity and diversity of their business.
PRA and FCA handbooks in, any of the Groups regulated entities are individually registered with either the PRA or FCA under the UK Regulation of the Aviva Group A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated Approved Person regime, and can be held directly accountable to the relevant regulator for control failings in those entities.
For solo directly authorised by both the PRA for prudential regulation and the FCA for conduct regulation whilst others are solo regulated entities, individuals applying for approval in a controlled function make their application to the FCA and if successful, are regulated regulated solely by the FCA for both prudential and conduct regulation.
For dual regulated entities, responsibility for applying the approved persons regime to controlled functions Aviva plc, although not directly authorised, does come within the scope of some regulation as the ultimate insurance holding is split between the PRA and FCA, with the PRA having responsibility for all of the Governing Functions.
However, the PRA company in the Group.
The PRA and FCA have powers under the FS Act in relation to unregulated parent undertakings cannot approve an application without the consent of the FCA.
Each regulator can apply its Statements of Principles and Code of qualifying parent undertakings that control and exert influence over regulated firms.
The powers include the ability to Practice for Approved Persons APER to the conduct expected of approved persons, and each can discipline an approved person make directions imposing requirements on parent undertakings, take enforcement action where such directions are breached who has breached an APER statement of principle, regardless of and gather information from parent undertakings.
As Aviva is a UK-based group, the PRA has the responsibility A number of senior managers at Group are registered as of acting as lead regulator i. e. the cross-sector supervisory coApproved Persons with either the PRA or FCA for the regulated ordinator for the Group within the EU.
subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior Aviva was designated as a Global Systemically Important managers of these firms.
This recognises that these managers exert Insurer G-SII by the IAIS.
The IAIS has developed a framework significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, because they of policy measures for G-SIIs.
The policy framework includes: are responsible for key parts of the Groups control framework on The recovery and resolution planning requirements under the which the regulated subsidiaries place reliance.
Financial Stability Boards Key Attributes of Effective The PRA and FCA regulate from a legal entity perspective, Resolution Regimes: even though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
However, Enhanced group-wide supervision: and both regulators expect that Avivas regulated subsidiaries will Higher loss absorbency requirements HLA.
operate within an overall framework of Group governance and controls.
PRA and FCA rules expressly provide that any systems The enhanced group wide supervision of G-SIIs introduces more and controls which operate on a Group basis will be taken into tailored regulation, greater supervisory resources and more account in determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys thorough use of existing supervisory tools compared to the systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is supervision of non-systemically important insurers.
For G-SIIs, therefore subject to scrutiny and challenge by both regulators.
the group-wide supervisor has specific powers over holding PRA and FCA rules regulate the acquisition and increase of companies to ensure that a direct approach to group-wide control over Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person supervision can be applied.
In addition, other involved proposing to acquire control of, or increase control over certain supervisors may have direct or indirect powers over holding thresholds of, an Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent companies in their jurisdiction.
The Authorised Firm must also inform the appropriate regulator of any such proposed acquisition or increase.
In considering whether to grant or withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, the appropriate regulator must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and proper person and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by this acquisition or increase of control.
| 2 296 96 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers acquirer: expected future contractual liabilities together with projected holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus a risk capital intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that margin, together known as the realistic peak.
firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or is able to exercise significant influence over the management All UK insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power Assessment ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
If the PRA decides that the final ICA amount is insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital Increases in control require the consent of the appropriate Guidance ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a regulator when they reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% requirement on the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
of the shares or voting power of the firm or its parent.
Day-to-day supervision In order to determine whether a person or a group of Both the PRA and FCA take a risk-based approach to persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings supervision, with the PRA focusing on those issues and shares or voting rights of the person and any other person authorised firms posing the greatest risk to the stability of the acting in concert, if any, are aggregated.
UK financial system and policyholders, and the FCA conducting Conduct of business rules in-depth structured supervision work with those firms with the The FCAs Conduct of Business COB and Insurance: Conduct potential to cause the greatest risk to its objectives.
of Business ICOB Rules apply to every Authorised Firm carrying Given our size and our share of the UK retail market, a major on relevant regulated activities, and regulate the day-to-day issue within our business which causes concern for the conduct of business standards to be observed by all Authorised regulators may have a significant impact on these objectives.
Persons in carrying out regulated activities.
Both regulators therefore maintain proactive engagement The COB and ICOB Rules are principle based, and the scope with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva conducted by and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will dedicated teams within the PRA and FCA.
In practice, this vary according to the scope of its business and range of the means that a wide range of Group and UK business unit senior Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the managers have regular scheduled meetings with the UK obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB and regulators, and other meetings and discussions on specific issues ICOB Rules will include the need to classify its clients according take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to frequent to their level of sophistication, provide them with information regulatory interaction at business unit and Group level, and the about the Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product sharing of detailed information about the Group.
disclosures including fee and remuneration arrangements, Areas of potential risk or weakness where the regulators ensure that promotional material which it produces is clear, fair particularly require Aviva to focus attention are formally set out in and not misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain a Risk Mitigation Plans RMPs from FCA and key actions from PRA.
products, control the range and scope of advice given, manage All open actions are being progressed in accordance with conflicts of interest, report appropriately to its clients and timescales agreed with the PRA and FCA.
provide certain protections in relation to client assets.
Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its The PRAs COB rule book is limited to with-profits business own national regulator s. However, overseas operations are and linked long-term insurance business as these classes of also within the remit of the PRA to the extent that they have an business are regulated by both the PRA and FCA.
For withinterest in the systems and controls by which the Group profits business the FCA is concerned with ensuring fairness manages its overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial between policyholders and shareholders whilst the PRA has shocks arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
ultimate responsibility in respect of decisions which have The PRA monitors the strategy and performance of the material consequences for both affordability and fairness.
For Groups international businesses through its programme of linked long-term business, the FCA is concerned with ensuring regular meetings and reviews.
benefits are determined by reference to an approved index, The UK regulators aim to play a leading role in the whilst the PRA is concerned with linked assets being capable of development of both EU and international regulation.
being realised in time to meet obligations to policyholders and Intervention and enforcement the matching of linked assets with linked liabilities.
The PRA and FCA have extensive powers to investigate and intervene in the affairs of Authorised Firms.
In relation to dual Capital and solvency rules for insurers The PRA rules require that a UK insurer including those within regulated firms, under the terms of a Memorandum of the Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the Understanding entered into in April 2013, the PRA and FCA will Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
Insurers with with-profits consult each other before taking enforcement action.
The PRA liabilities of more than 500 million which is the case with has the right to veto certain FCA regulatory actions in relation to Avivas with-profits fund must hold capital equal to the higher dual regulated firms, but the FCA is not required to comply if in of MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR its opinion it would be incompatible with any EU or other is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic international obligation of the UK.
measure of a with-profits insurers capital requirements, The regulators enforcement powers, which may be whereas the MCR is broadly equivalent to the previous required exercised against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, minimum margin, and satisfies the minimum EU standards.
include public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two serious cases, the variation or revocation of permission to carry separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial on regulated activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The resources requirements, which the PRA refers to as the twin FCA may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: protect the interests of consumers or potential consumers if the the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves plus Authorised Firm has not engaged in regulated activity for 12 the long term insurance capital requirement the LTICR, months, or if it is failing to meet the threshold conditions for together known as the regulatory peak: and authorisation.
The FCA has further powers to obtain injunctions Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 297 297 against Authorised Persons and to impose or seek restitution Old with-profits sub-fund Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a orders where consumers have suffered loss.
distribution will ordinarily be required if the level of the inherited In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FCA estate of the Old WPSF exceeds the Required Distribution has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under Threshold as described in the Reattribution Scheme of Transfer FSMA and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice effective from 1 October 2009 The Scheme on any such Act 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The annual investigation from the third such investigation after 1 FCAs stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all October 2009.
The Scheme permits distributions from the Old appropriate cases.
WPSF inherited estate earlier than required by The Scheme where the AVLAP Board determines that a distribution is The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS necessary for the fair treatment of Old WPSF customers.
The The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small AVLAP Board has set aside 89 million as at 31 December 2014 businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the to be applied to enhance the with-profits benefits of customers Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those as they leave the Old WPSF.
An Annual investigation may also claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of be carried out to determine if a Release to shareholders can be business.
Releases can only be made: The FSCS levy is to split into twelve broad classes: if the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted the deposits class: Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: the life and pensions provision class: the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice the general insurance provision class: including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion the investment provision class: that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the the life and pensions intermediation class: New with-profits sub-fund including the RIEESA would be the home finance intermediation class: unable to meet its obligations to policyholders and its capital the investment intermediation class: requirements or the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its the general insurance intermediation class: obligations to policyholders: and the deposit acceptors contribution class: following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October 2009 the insurers life contribution class: or later investigation and provided that investigation and the insurers general contribution class: and investigations made in the previous 2 years determined that the home finance providers and administrators contribution the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeded the Permitted class.
The permissions held by each firm determine into which class, or Reporting requirements classes, it falls.
PRA rules require insurance companies to submit annually their audited annual accounts, statements of financial position and Restrictions on business life insurers annual reports from the actuary performing the UK regulatory rules restrict an insurance company from carrying actuarial function with the regulator.
There is also a requirement on any commercial business other than insurance business and to report the annual solvency position of the insurance activities directly arising from that business.
authorised insurance companies in the Group are bound by this The PRA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. restriction.
the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
For Long-term assets and liabilities general insurance business, the return is also used to assess Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longretrospectively the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and The directors of an insurance company are required to sign a liabilities relating to life and health insurance policies must be certificate, which includes a statement as to whether they have segregated from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life complied in all material respects with the requirements of Senior insurance business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls SYSC, other records must be maintained and a separate fund Principles for Businesses PRIN, Interim Prudential Sourcebook established to hold all receipts of long-term business.
for Insurers IPRU INS, General Prudential Sourcebook The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for GENPRU and Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU.
The purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the PRA directors must also certify that the company has completed its rules.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of return to the PRA properly in accordance with the PRAs assets over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the actuarial investigation, may be transferred so as to be available company has complied in all material respects with the for other purposes.
Restrictions also apply to the payment of requirements set out in the PRA rules.
dividends by the insurance company, as described below.
PRA rules also require insurers to maintain sufficient assets in the UK winding up rules separate long-term insurance fund to cover the actuarially The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK determined value of the insurance liabilities.
companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have Distribution of profits and with-profits business priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the FCAs creditors, on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary rules require that where a firm decides to make a distribution of winding up of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of surplus from the with-profits fund it must distribute at least the making a winding-up order when an insurance company has required percentage as defined in the FCA Handbook of the been proved unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the total amount distributed to policyholders, with the balance of amount of one or more of the insurance companys contracts the total amount to be distributed being payable to the on terms and subject to conditions if any which the court shareholders.
Where an insurance company is in financial In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must difficulties but not in liquidation, the FSCS may take measures consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the
