| 19 198 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42 Liability for investment contracts continued For many types of long-term business, including unit-linked and participating funds, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact on profit.
The variance between actual and expected experience of 0.7 billion is driven by favourable property returns on liabilities in the UK.
Additionally, minor variances arise from differences between actual and expected experience for persistency, mortality and other demographic factors.
The impact of assumption changes in the analysis shows the resulting movement in the carrying value of participating investment contract liabilities.
For participating business, a movement in liabilities is generally offset by a corresponding adjustment to the unallocated divisible surplus and does not impact on profit.
Where assumption changes do impact on profit, these are included in the effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year shown in note 45, together with the impact of movements in related non-financial assets.
ii Non-participating investment contracts 1 2014 2013 m m Carrying amount at 1 January 48,140 47,699 Provisions in respect of new business 2,273 3,386 Expected change in existing business provisions 1,442 2,698 Variance between actual and expected experience 1,575 3,122 Impact of operating assumption changes 2 4 Impact of economic assumption changes 11 1 Other movements 8 46 Change in liability 2,427 3,861 2 Effect of portfolio transfers, acquisitions and disposals 20 3,785 Foreign exchange rate movements 534 365 Carrying amount at 31 December 50,013 48,140 1 The 2013 comparatives include US business in each line of the analysis up to the effect of portfolio transfers, acquisitions and disposals item.
2 The movements during 2014 relate primarily to the disposal of Eurovita.
2013 related to the disposals of US Life and Ark Life.
For unit-linked investment contracts, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact on profit.
The variance between actual and expected experience of 1.6 billion is primarily driven by the impact of favourable movements in property returns on liabilities for unit linked contracts in UK and Ireland.
In addition there are variances in Italy due to lower lapses than expected.
The impact of assumption changes in the above analysis shows the resulting movement in the carrying value of nonparticipating investment contract liabilities.
The impacts of assumption changes on profit are included in the effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year shown in note 45, which combines participating and non-participating investment contracts together with the impact of movements in related non-financial assets.
43 Financial guarantees and options This note details the financial guarantees and options that the Group has given for some of our insurance and investment products.
As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees and options, including investment return guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
Further information on assumptions is given in notes 41 and 42. a UK Life with-profit business In the UK, life insurers are required to comply with the PRAs realistic reporting regime for their with-profit funds for the calculation of PRA liabilities.
Under the PRAs rules, provision for guarantees and options within realistic liabilities must be measured at fair value, using market-consistent stochastic models.
A stochastic approach includes measuring the time value of guarantees and options, which represents the additional cost arising from uncertainty surrounding future economic conditions.
The material guarantees and options to which this provision relates are: i Maturity value guarantees Substantially all of the conventional with-profit business and a significant proportion of unitised with-profit business have minimum maturity values reflecting the sums assured plus declared annual bonus.
In addition, the guarantee fund has offered maturity value guarantees on certain unit-linked products.
For some unitised with-profit life contracts the amount paid after the fifth policy anniversary is guaranteed to be at least as high as the premium paid increased in line with the rise in RPI CPI.
ii No market valuation reduction MVR guarantees For unitised business, there are a number of circumstances where a no MVR guarantee is applied, for example on certain policy anniversaries, guaranteeing that no market value reduction will be applied to reflect the difference between the accumulated value of units and the market value of the underlying assets.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 199 199 43 Financial guarantees and options continued iii Guaranteed annuity options The Groups UK with-profit funds have written individual and group pension contracts which contain guaranteed annuity rate options GAOs, where the policyholder has the option to take the benefits from a policy in the form of an annuity based on guaranteed conversion rates.
The Group also has exposure to GAOs and similar options on deferred annuities.
Realistic liabilities for GAOs in the UK with-profit funds were 1,198 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 921 million.
With the exception of the New With-Profits Sub Fund NWPSF, movements in the realistic liabilities in the with-profit funds are offset by a corresponding movement in the unallocated divisible surplus, with no net impact on IFRS profit.
Realistic liabilities for GAOs in the NWPSF were 197 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 149 million.
iv Guaranteed minimum pension The Groups UK with-profit funds also have certain policies that contain a guaranteed minimum level of pensions as part of the condition of the original transfer from state benefits to the policy.
v Guaranteed minimum maturity payments on mortgage endowments In addition, the with-profit fund companies have made promises to certain policyholders in relation to their with-profit mortgage endowments.
Top-up payments will be made on these policies at maturity to meet the mortgage value up to a maximum of the 31 December 1999 illustrated shortfall.
For UKLAP WP policyholders, these payments are subject to certain conditions.
b UK Life non-profit business The Groups UK non-profit funds are evaluated by reference to statutory reserving rules, including changes introduced in 2006 under FSA Policy Statement 06 14, Prudential Changes for Insurers which was designated by the PRA on 1 April 2013. i Guaranteed annuity options Similar options to those written in the with-profit fund have been written in relation to non-profit products.
Provision for these guarantees does not materially differ from a provision based on a market-consistent stochastic model, and amounts to 33 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 31 million.
ii Guaranteed unit price on certain products Certain unit-linked pension products linked to long-term life insurance funds provide policyholders with guaranteed benefits at retirement or death.
No additional provision is made for this guarantee as the investment management strategy for these funds is designed to ensure that the guarantee can be met from the fund, mitigating the impact of large falls in investment values and interest rates.
c Overseas life businesses In addition to guarantees written in the Groups UK life businesses, our overseas businesses have also written contracts containing guarantees and options.
Details of the significant guarantees and options provided by overseas life businesses are set out below.
i France Guaranteed surrender value and guaranteed minimum bonuses Aviva France has written a number of contracts with such guarantees.
The guaranteed surrender value is the accumulated value of the contract including accrued bonuses.
Bonuses are based on accounting income from amortised bond portfolios, where the duration of bond portfolios is set in relation to the expected duration of the policies, plus income and releases from realised gains on equity-type investments.
Policy reserves are equal to guaranteed surrender values.
Local statutory accounting envisages the establishment of a reserve, Provision pour Alas Financiers PAF, when accounting income is less than 125% of guaranteed minimum credited returns.
No PAF was established at full year 2014.
The most significant of these contracts is the AFER Eurofund which has total liabilities of 32 billion at 31 December 2014 2013: 34 billion.
The guaranteed minimum bonus is agreed between Aviva France and the AFER association at the end of each year, in respect of the following year.
The bonus was 3.20% for 2014 2013: 3.36% compared with an accounting income from the fund of 3.69% 2013: 3.85%.
Non-AFER contracts with guaranteed surrender values had liabilities of 16 billion at 31 December 2014 2013: 15 billion and all guaranteed annual bonus rates are between 0% and 4.5%.
For non-AFER business the accounting income return exceeded guaranteed bonus rates in 2014.
Guaranteed death and maturity benefits In France, the Group has also sold unit-linked policies where the death and or maturity benefit is guaranteed to be at least equal to the premiums paid.
The reserve held in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position at the end of 2014 for this guarantee is 28 million 2013: 20 million.
The reserve is calculated on a prudent basis and is in excess of the economic liability.
At the end of 2014, total sums at risk for these contracts were 70 million 2013: 101 million out of total unit-linked funds of 15 billion 2013: 15 billion.
The average age of policyholders was approximately 54.
It is estimated that this liability would increase by 36 million 2013: 22 million if yields were to decrease by 1% per annum and by 12 million 2013: 8 million if equity markets were to decline by 10% from year end 2014 levels.
These figures do not reflect our ability to review the tariff for this option.
ii Ireland Guaranteed annuity options Products with GAOs similar to those offered in the UK have been issued in Ireland.
The net provision as at 31 December 2014 for such options is 273 million 2013: 202 million.
This has been calculated on a deterministic basis, making conservative assumptions for the factors which influence the cost of the guarantee, principally annuitant mortality option take-up and long-term interest rates.
These GAOs are in the money at current interest rates but the exposure to interest rates under these contracts has been hedged through the use of derivatives receiver swaps and payer swaptions.
