Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
2015 financial calendar Aviva General Meeting in respect of the proposed Acquisition of Friends Life 11am on 26 March 2015 Annual General Meeting 11am on 29 April 2015 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 7 May 2015 The full financial calendar will be available at www.
com investor-relations financial-calendar 2014 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date ordinary 8 April 2015 Record date ordinary and ADR 9 April 2015 Last day for Dividend Reinvestment Plan election 23 April 2015 Dividend payment date 15 May 2015 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
The ex-dividend date for ADR holders will be 7 April 2015.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid in May and The 2015 AGM will be held at The QEII Centre, Broad November please see the table above for the key dates in Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Wednesday, 29 respect of the 2014 final dividend.
Dividends on preference shares are normally paid in March, Details of each resolution to be considered at the meeting are June, September and December - please visit provided in the Notice of AGM, which is available on the www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend Companys website at www.
Shareholders can vote electronically at Holders of ordinary and preference shares will receive any www.
co. uk eproxy, in person by attending the dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs will receive meeting, or by completing and returning the relevant voting any dividends payable in US dollars.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which The voting results for the 2015 AGM will be accessible on the provides the option for eligible shareholders to reinvest their Companys website at www.
com agm shortly after the cash dividend in additional ordinary shares in the Company.
For further information please visit www.
If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to ask the Completed application forms must be sent to the Companys directors a question in connection with the business of the Registrar, Computershare, by no later than 5pm on 23 April meeting, please e-mail the group company secretary at 2015. aviva.
Direct credit of dividend payments AGM voting instructions If you would like to have your cash dividends paid directly into Completed proxy instructions must be submitted to the your bank or building society account, or to have your Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC dividends reinvested please visit www.
com dividends for Computershare, to arrive by no later than: more information or contact Computershare using the contact Monday, 27 April 2015 at 11am for ordinary shareholders: details overleaf.
and Friday, 24 April 2015 at 11am for members of the Aviva Share Overseas global dividend service Account and participants in the Vested Share Account and the The Global Payments Service provided by Computershare Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
enables shareholders living overseas to elect to receive their ADR holders should submit instructions to Citibank, N. A. the dividends in a choice of over 65 international currencies.
For Depositary, by no later than 10am on Thursday, 23 April further details and fees for this service please visit 2015. www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Payments tab, followed by Global Payment Service.
