| 11 112 2 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Aviva plcs Consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Groups and the parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Aviva plcs financial statements comprise: The Consolidated and the Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2014: The Consolidated and the Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: The Reconciliation of the Group operating profit to profit for the year then ended: The Consolidated and the Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and The Accounting policies and notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs and as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting policies to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality has been set at 102 million which represents 5% of the operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profit adjusted for integration and restructuring costs.
Specific audit procedures were performed within the UK Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, France and Spain markets to address the areas of focus identified below.
We identified a further five markets where account balances are considered to be significant in size in relation to the Group, and scoped our audit to include detailed testing of those account balances.
Further audit procedures were performed by the Group engagement team, including over the head office operations and the consolidation process, to ensure that sufficient coverage was obtained.
Our risk assessment analysis identified the following as areas of focus: Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities.
Methodology and assumptions used to value the non-life contract liabilities for the UK General Insurance and Canada markets.
Valuation of hard to value investments.
Valuation of goodwill in Spain.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 122 Accounting policies and page 188 notes The Directors valuation of the provisions for the settlement of future The work to address the valuation of the UK Life insurance contract claims involves complex and subjective judgements about future events, liabilities included the following procedures: both internal and external to the business, for which small changes in Testing the underlying company data to source documentation.
assumptions can result in material impacts to the valuation of these By applying our industry knowledge and experience we compared the liabilities.
methodology, models and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices.
We used the results of an independent PwC annual benchmarking survey of assumptions which allowed us to further challenge the assumption setting process by comparing certain assumptions used relative to the Groups industry peers.
IFRS Financial statements | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 113 113 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We performed reasonableness checks on the modelled results of managements analysis of change and tested the accuracy of the manual calculations.
This included assessing the appropriateness of changes to the model used to value the liabilities associated with the UK Equity Release Mortgages.
Further testing was also conducted on specific assumptions such as UK Life Annuitant Mortality and UK Life Credit Default assumptions as set out below.
Based on the work performed, we noted no significant matters arising from our testing and consider that the assumptions used to be in line with recognised market practices and, where appropriate, industry peers.
As part of our consideration of the entire set of assumptions we focused particularly on the following two within the UK Life market given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the UK Life annuitant UK Life Annuitant Mortality Assumptions mortality assumptions: Annuitant mortality assumptions require a high degree of judgement We understood and tested the governance process in place to due to the number of factors which may influence mortality experience.
The differing factors which affect the assumptions are determine the annuitant mortality methodology and assumptions.
underlying mortality experience in the portfolio, industry and We tested the methodology and the model for rate of improvements management views on the future rate of mortality improvements: and used by management to derive the assumptions with reference to external factors arising from the development of the enhanced annuity relevant rules and actuarial guidance and by applying our industry market and the UK annuity reforms announced in the March 2014 knowledge and experience.
We assessed the results of the experience investigations carried out by UK Life management for the annuity business to determine whether they provided support for the assumptions used by management.
We evaluated managements assessment of the implications of the UK annuity reforms announced in the March 2014 budget on the assumptions adopted by UK Life.
We compared the mortality assumptions selected by UK Life against those used by its peers.
In light of the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions used for annuitant mortality to be reasonable.
In respect of the credit default assumptions at UK Life: UK Life Credit Default Assumptions UK Life holds significant commercial mortgage, corporate bond and We understood and tested the governance process in place to other loan asset portfolios to support the annuity liabilities.
In line with determine the credit default risk methodology and assumptions.
relevant rules, the current yield on these assets less a prudent We tested the methodology and credit risk pricing models used for deduction for credit default and reinvestment risk is used to discount commercial mortgages by management to derive the assumptions with the annuity liabilities.
Additional supplementary liabilities are held reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance, and by applying our particularly in respect of the use of higher risk assets.
These liabilities industry knowledge and experience.
are to cover inter alia the risk of increased short term default rates and We validated assumptions used by management against market in the event of default, the availability of assets yielding similar returns.
observable data and our experience of market practices.
The assumptions used require significant judgement.
Based on the work undertaken, we consider the allowance for credit default risk to be appropriate.
Valuation of nonlife insurance contract liabilities Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 122 Accounting policies and page 188 notes The estimation of non-life insurance contract liabilities involves a In the UK General Insurance and Canada markets, we assessed the significant degree of judgement.
The liabilities are based on the bestDirectors calculation of the non-life insurance liabilities by testing the estimate ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at a given underlying company data, the methodology and assumptions used date, whether reported or not, together with the related claims against recognised actuarial practices and by applying our industry handling costs.
A range of methods, including stochastic projections, knowledge and experience.
may be used to determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the The testing included performing the following procedures: expected settlement amount and settlement patterns of claims.
Understanding and testing the governance process in place to Regulators across the globe continue to focus on reserving adequacy determine the loss reserves, including testing the financial reporting for non-life insurers, particularly in the current market.
control framework for setting these reserves.
Performing independent re-projections on selected classes of business, Given their size in relation to the consolidated Group and the particularly focussing on the largest and most uncertain reserves.
For complexity of the judgements involved our work focused on the these classes we compared our re-projected claims reserves to those liabilities in the UK General Insurance and Canada markets.
booked by management, and sought to understand any significant differences.
For the remaining classes we evaluated the methodology and assumptions, or performed a diagnostic check to identify and follow up any anomalies.
Our work and the evidence provided identified no significant issues.
