| 11 114 4 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Independent auditors report to the members of Aviva plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of hard to value investments Refer to page 167 notes.
Given the ongoing market volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty, For these hard to value investments we assessed both the methodology investment valuation continues to be an area of inherent risk.
The risk and assumptions used by management in the calculation of the year end is not uniform for all investment types and is greatest for the following, values as well as testing the governance controls that the Directors have where the investments are hard to value because quoted prices are not in place to monitor these processes.
readily available: Commercial mortgage loans UK Life The testing included performing the following procedures: Equity release and securitised mortgage loans UK Life Evaluated the methodology and assumptions used within the valuation Structured bond-type investments France models.
Collateralised loan obligations and non-recourse loans UK Life Comparing the assumptions used against appropriate benchmarks and investigating significant differences.
Testing the operation of data integrity and change management controls for the models and in particular, changes to the Equity Release Mortgage valuation model.
Using our expertise to perform independent valuations, where applicable.
Our work and the evidence provided identified no significant issues.
Valuation of goodwill The work we performed over the valuation of goodwill in Spain included Refer to page 161 notes.
the following: Our audit work on the Directors goodwill impairment assessment Evaluating the results of the Directors impairment assessment, focused in particular on Spain following the recognition of an including an analysis of the methodology and the assumptions impairment in the prior year, and with the continued volatility in the adopted.
Spanish economy there continues to be a heightened risk of Testing the appropriateness of the key assumptions, including impairment in the current year.
performing a sensitivity analysis over the Directors assumptions regarding the planned growth rate in cash flows including value of new business and discount rate assumed whilst also considering publicly available data, such as interest rate and economic growth projections.
Although uncertainties always exist with regards to forecasts on which the impairment assessment is based, when considering the work performed and evidence obtained, we considered managements assessment that goodwill had not been impaired to be appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industries in which the Group operates.
Using the outputs of a risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva structure, we scoped our audit based on the significance of the results and financial position of individual markets relative to the Group result and financial position.
In doing so, we also considered qualitative factors and checked that we obtained sufficient coverage across all financial statement line items in the Consolidated financial statements.
The Groups primary reporting format is along market reporting lines with supplementary information being given by business activity.
The operating segments of the Group are United Kingdom & Ireland Life and General Insurance, France, Poland, Italy, Spain and Other, Canada, Asia, Aviva Investors and Other Group Activities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the markets by us, as the Group audit team, or auditors of the markets within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Where the work was performed by auditors of the markets, we determined the level of involvement we needed as the Group audit team to have in the audit work at those reporting lines to be able to conclude whether sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Group audit team kept in regular communication with reporting market audit teams including visits, regular phone calls, discussions and written instructions, where appropriate.
Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 102 million 2013: 81 million.
How we determined it 5% of operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders' profits adjusted for integration and restructuring costs.
Rationale for benchmark applied In determining our materiality, we considered financial metrics which we believed to be relevant, and concluded, consistent with last year, that operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders' profits adjusted for integration and restructuring costs was the most relevant benchmark.
