| 28 288 8 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Shareholder information continued Our UK fund management companies manage most of the Related party disclosures assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for Related party transactions which they charge fees based on the level of funds under For more information relating to related party transactions, management.
The main UK scheme holds investments in Groupincluding more information about the transactions described managed funds and insurance policies with other Group below, please see IFRS Financial Statements note 61 Related companies, as explained in note 49 b ii.
The related parties receivables are not secured and no Subsidiaries guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of related parties are given in note 53 f. Key management compensation The total compensation to those employees classified as key Loans to joint ventures We make loans to our property management joint ventures to management, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, fund property developments which we undertake with our joint venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in IFRS including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: Financial Statements Note 19 Interests in, and loans to, joint 2014 2013 2012 ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2014 and at the end of m m m Salary and other short-term benefits 8.9 6.7 6.0 each of the last three financial years are shown in the table below: Post-employment benefits 1.0 1.1 1.9 2014 2013 2012 Equity compensation plans 1.9 3.3 4.8 m m m Termination benefits 1.1 1.5 Other long term benefits 4.1 1.6 0.8 Loans to joint ventures 73 24 43 Total 15.9 13.8 15.0 Dividend data Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time The Company has a policy to pay a progressive dividend with to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
Under UK products, from Aviva Group companies in the ordinary course of company law, we may only pay dividends if the Company has business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates distributable profits available.
Distributable profits are and security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for accumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or comparable transactions with other persons.
capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and in written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are available, the Governance section of this report, no director had an we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets is not less interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does not reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that aggregate.
Other related parties As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon The Group received income from and paid expenses to other dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash related parties from transactions made in the normal course of dividends.
Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to business.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal insurance regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that arms length commercial terms.
Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final Services provided to other related parties dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the 2014 2013 2012 year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Receivable restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on earned at year earned at year earned at year in year end in year end in year end ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, whilst m m m m m m payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the Associates 7 3 11 9 Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference Joint ventures 28 154 51 56 23 54 shares are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are Employee pension made at the discretion of our Board.
schemes 11 3 12 9 12 6 The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, 46 157 66 76 35 69 although the articles of association permit payment of dividends on ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates and joint cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares ventures above, at 31 December 2014 amounts payable at yearheld by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are end were nil 2013: nil, and expenses incurred during the paid in pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the period were 2 million 2013: 3 million.
pounds sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders Transactions with joint ventures in the UK relate to the into US dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the property management undertakings, the most material of which date that the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
Our interest in these joint ventures From the 2009 interim dividend to the 2012 interim comprises a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision dividend, shareholders on record were provided the opportunity of administration services and financial management to many of to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly issued ordinary them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on loans shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
For the 2012 advanced to these entities, movements in which may be found final and subsequent dividends, the Aviva Scrip Dividend in note 19 a i.
Our fund management companies also charge fees to these An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each joint ventures for administration services and for arranging year.
A final dividend is typically proposed by the Companys external finance.
Board after the end of the relevant year and generally paid in
