| 3 316 16 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Glossary Open ended investment company OEIC Product definitions A collective investment fund structured as a limited company in Annuity which investors can buy and sell shares.
A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a persons lifetime, or Pension deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and may be purchased for an individual and his or her dependants possibly his her dependants.
or on a bulk purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred Personal pension annuities are accumulation contracts, which may be used to A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which provide benefits in retirement.
Annuities may be guaranteed, includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
Protection Bonds and savings An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or his her These are accumulation products with single or regular dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
Regular premium Critical illness cover A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically Pays out a lump sum if the insured person is diagnosed with a monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the serious illness that meets the plan definition.
Deferred annuity Collective investment scheme SICAVs An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future date or This is an open-ended investment fund, structured as a legally when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in the annuity may be funded by a policyholder by payment of a series form of shares.
of regular contributions or by a capital sum.
Single premium Equity Release A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at Equity Release Mortgages allow a homeowner to receive a lump commencement of the contract.
sum in return for a mortgage secured on their house.
No Stakeholder pensions interest is payable on the loan: instead, interest is rolled-up on Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, the loan and the loan and accrued interest are repayable at governed by specific regulations.
redemption upon death or moving into long term care.
Term assurance General insurance A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed Also known as non-life or property and casualty insurance.
number of years during which a lump sum will be paid out if the Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, life insured dies.
flood, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury to Unit trusts other people or damage to the property of others.
A form of open ended collective investment constituted under a trust deed, in which investors can buy and sell units.
Group pension A pension plan that covers a group of people, which is typically Whole life purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
A protection policy that remains in force for the insureds whole life: a lump sum will be paid out on death.
Traditional whole life Health insurance contracts have fixed premium payments that typically cannot be Provides cover against loss from illness or bodily injury.
Can pay missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible whole life contracts for medicine, visits to the doctor, hospital stays, other medical allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of expenses and loss of earnings, depending on the conditions life cover, within certain limits.
covered and the benefits and choices of treatment available on the policy.
General terms Income drawdown Available for sale AFS The policyholder can transfer money from any pension fund to Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale an income drawdown plan from which they receive an income.
nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on the The remainder of the pension fund continues to be invested, statement of financial position and changes in value giving it the potential for growth.
are taken straight to equity instead of the income statement.
Investment sales Association of British Insurers ABI Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such as unit A major trade association for UK insurance companies, trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open ended established in July 1985. investment companies OEICs.
Acquired value of in force AVIF Individual savings account ISAs The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term Tax-efficient plans for investing in stocks and shares, cash insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or deposits or life insurance investment funds, subject to certain through the purchase of a subsidiary.
Bancassurance Affinity Mortgage endowment An arrangement whereby banks, building societies or other An insurance contract combining savings and protection groups sell insurance and investment products to their elements which is designed to repay the principal of a loan or customers or members on behalf of other financial providers.
Big Data Mortgage life insurance Large volumnes of data which are a valuable source of A protection contract designed to pay off the outstanding information used to identify customer behaviours.
amount of a mortgage or loan in the event of death of the insured.
Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 317 317 Cash remittances Long-term and savings business Dividends paid by our operating businesses to the Group.
Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, investments and related business.
Combined operating ratio COR COR is calculated as incurred claims expressed as a percentage of Net written premiums net earned premiums, plus written commissions and written Total gross written premiums for the given period, less expenses expressed as a percentage of net written premiums.
premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
Cost income ratio New business strain NBS Operating expenses expressed as a percentage of operating profit The name given to the initial impact on shareholders' net assets before Group debt costs and operating expenses.
when an insurance contract is sold.
This strain arises because, in addition to meeting costs associated with the sale of Deferred acquisition costs DAC contracts, insurance companies must meet capital and reserving The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business requirements at the outset of a contract that are often for insurance and investment contracts may be deferred to the significantly higher than the premiums received.
extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future margins in revenue on these contracts.
Operating expenses The day-to-day expenses involved in running a business, such as Excess centre cash flow sales and administration, as opposed to production costs.
A measure of excess cash flow, calculated by deducting central Operating profit operating expenses and debt financing costs from cash remitted This is also referred to as adjusted operating profit or operating by business units.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA One of the two bodies along with the PRA which replaced the Present value of new business PVNBP Financial Services Authority from 1 April 2013.
The FCA is a Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single company limited by guarantee and is independent of the Bank premiums, calculated using assumptions consistent with those of England.
It is responsible for the conduct business regulation used to determine the value of new business under Market of all firms including those firms subject to prudential Consistent Embedded Value MCEV principles published by the regulation by the PRA and the prudential regulation of firms CFO Forum.
The FCA has three statutory Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA objectives: securing an appropriate degree of protection for One of the two bodies along with the FCA which replaced the consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK Financial Services Authority from 1 April 2013.
The PRA is a part financial system and promoting effective competition in the of the Bank of England and is responsible for the prudential interests of consumers.
regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers and major investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to Gross written premiums promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of insurance specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an products, before any reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the current financial year, because some of them could relate to Risk-adjusted returns insurance cover for a subsequent period.
Adjusting profits earned and investment returns by how much Independent Financial Advisers IFAs risk is involved in producing that return or profit A person or organisation, authorised under the FCA, to give Solvency II advice on financial matters.
These are insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU International financial reporting standards IFRS insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of These are accounting regulations designed to ensure capital that European insurance companies must hold under a comparable financial statements preparation and disclosure, and measure of capital and risk.
Solvency II is due to become are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the effective from 1 January 2016.
European Union are required to use.
Total shareholder return Operating profit A measure of company performance based on the overall value This is also referred to as adjusted operating profit or operating to shareholders of their investment in a stock over a given profit IFRS basis.
It is based on expected investment returns, period of time.
Includes movement in the share price and and stated before tax and before non-operating items including, dividends paid and reinvested, expressed as a percentage of the impairment of goodwill, exceptional and other items.
initial value of the investment or share price at the beginning of Inherited estate the period.
In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the UK Corporate Governance Code realistic reserves for non-profit policies written within the withThe code sets out guidance in the form of principles and profit funds, less asset shares aggregated across the with-profit provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled policies and any additional amounts expected at the valuation to follow good governance practice.
date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect Value of new business VNB of smoothing costs and guarantees.
VNB is the present value of future profits from new business written at the point of sale.
It is calculated on a market Latent claims consistent basis using economic and operating assumptions General insurance claims that are often not made until many which are the same as those used to determine the embedded years after the period of cover provided, due to the impact of value at the end of the reporting period and is stated after the perils or causes not becoming evident for a number of years.
effect of any frictional costs.
Unless otherwise stated, it is Sources of latent claims include asbestos-related diseases, quoted net of tax and minority interests.
environmental pollution and industrial deafness.
