Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Share price information The Annual General Meeting of BGH the AGM will be held at BGH shareholders can access both the latest and historical 10:00 am London time on Thursday, 21 May 2015 at Freshfields prices via our website, www.
co. uk, as well as listings in Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.
Details of the business to be conducted at the AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be mailed to shareholders on or Forward-looking statements about 28 April 2015 and will be available on the BGHs website: Where this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements, www.
co. uk these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this Shareholder inquiries Annual Report.
These statements should be treated with caution BGHs share register is maintained by Computershare Investor due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such Services PLC.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this Annual Report, Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained such as change of address or change of ownership, should be in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are directed to the address or telephone number immediately below.
not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks and Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their Uncertainties on pages 32 to 35 of this Annual Report.
shareholding, subject to passing an identity check, by visiting the Registrars website: www.
co. uk Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZY United Kingdom 44 0 870 873 5866 Dividends On 20 February 2015, the Directors of BGH declared their intention to recommend an annual dividend in the amount of GEL 2.1 per share payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate, subject to approval by the shareholders at BGHs AGM.
As a holding company whose principal assets are the shares of its subsidiaries, BGH relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily and contractually permissible payments from its subsidiaries, principally the Bank, to generate reserves necessary to pay dividends to its shareholders.
If the annual dividend is approved at BGHs AGM on 21 May 2015, BGH envisions the following dividend timetable: Ex-Dividend Date: 4 June 2015 Record Date: 5 June 2015 Currency Conversion Date: 8 June 2015 Payment Date: 16 June 2015 The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 84 Brook Street London W1K 5EH United Kingdom www.
co. uk 196 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Sulphur Bath, Tbilisi Doll Museum, Tbilisi Street lighting, Tbilisi Presidential Palace, Tbilisi Fragment of Leaning Tower wall, Tbilisi Marionette Tower, Tbilisi Traditional dish Khachapuri Old town, Tbilisi Georgian wine Georgian wine cheese-filled bread Public Hall, Tbilisi Old town, Tbilisi Old town, Tbilisi Old town view from restaurant Kopala, Tbilisi Georgian orthodox monastery Old town, Tbilisi Mineral water spring, Borjomi wall painting, Kutaisi Traditional Georgian carpet Ski resort, Gudauri Old town, Tbilisi Old town, Tbilisi
