The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosures Unaudited Henderson and the Company are required to make certain disclosures techniques for efficient portfolio management purposes such as available to investors in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund stock-lending.
Typically, leverage will arise through the use of index Managers Directive 'AIFMD'.
Those disclosures that are required to be futures, forward foreign exchange contracts or contracts for difference, made pre-investment are included within a Key Investor Information where cash is paid to the counterparty as a margin against the current Document 'KIID' which can be found on the Companys website mark-to-market value of the derivative contract: as a result, depending www.
There have been no material on the type of instrument, a relatively small movement in the price of a changes to the disclosures contained within the KIID since publication contract may result in a profit or a loss which is high in proportion to the inJuly 2014. amount of funds actually placed as initial margin and may even result in further loss exceeding any margin deposited.
The use of leverage The periodic disclosures to investors are made below: therefore creates additional risks and may significantly increase the market and counterparty risk of the Company through non-fully funded Information on the investment strategy, geographic and sector exposure to underlying markets or securities.
investment focus and principal stock exposures are included in the Strategic Report.
Leverage is considered in terms of the Companys overall 'exposure' to financial or synthetic gearing and includes any method by which None of the Companys assets are subject to special the exposure of the Company is increased whether through borrowing arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other means.
Henderson is required, in accordance with the The Strategic Report and note 16 to the accounts set out the risk AIFMD, to calculate and monitor the level of leverage of the Company, profile and risk management systems in place.
There have been expressed as the ratio between the total exposure of the Company no changes to the risk management systems in place in the and its net asset value with exposure values being calculated by both period under review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, the gross method and commitment method.
Exposure values under the gross method basis are calculated as the There are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the absolute value of all positions in the portfolio: this includes all eligible Company or any material changes to the liquidity management assets and liabilities, relevant borrowings, derivatives converted into systems and procedures employed by Henderson.
their equivalent underlying positions and all other positions, even those held purely for risk reduction purposes, such as forward foreign All authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers are required exchange contracts held for currency hedging.
to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration Code.
It is therefore anticipated that the Henderson Remuneration Policy and The gross method of exposure of the Company requires the associated financial disclosures will be made with the Companys calculationto: Annual Report from 2016. include the sum of all non-derivative assets if applicable held atmarket value, plus the absolute value of all such liabilities: Leverage exclude cash and cash equivalents which are highly liquid Although leverage is often used as another term for gearing, under the investments held in the base currency of the Company, that are AIFMD regulations leverage is expressed as a ratio of the exposure of readily convertible to a known amount of cash, which are subject debt, non-sterling currency, equity or currency hedging and derivatives to an insignificant risk of change in value and provide a return no exposure against the net asset value.
It defines two types of leverage, greater than the rate of a three month high quality bond: the gross method and the commitment method.
These are essentially the same other than the commitment method allows derivative include derivative instruments which are converted into the instruments to be netted off to reflect 'netting' or 'hedging equivalent position in their underlying assets: arrangements'.
Non-sterling cash is deemed to carry a currency exposure so is considered to be leverage.
In accordance with the exclude cash borrowings that remain in cash or cash equivalents AIFMD the Company is obliged to disclose the maximum expected and where the amounts payable are known: leverage levels under both methods and this is disclosed below.
In order to comply with the AIFMD the maximum leverage levels have been set include exposures resulting from the reinvestment of cash in accordance with the maximum gearing allowable by the Companys borrowings, expressed as the higher of the market value of the Articles of Association.
However, the day-to-day management of investment realised or the total amount of cash borrowed: and gearing and leverage levels will be conducted within the tighter limits set by the Companys investment policy.
include positions within repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending or borrowing or other similar Leverage may be applied to the portfolio by utilising financial gearing arrangements as applicable.
such as bank borrowings and overdrafts and synthetic gearing through derivatives and or other non-fully funded instruments or 63 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosures Unaudited continued Exposure values under the commitment method basis are calculated on a similar basis to the above, but may take into account the effect of netting off instruments to reflect eligible netting and hedging arrangements on eligible assets and different treatment of certain cash and cash equivalent items in line with regulatory requirements.
The calculation of leverage assumes that a leverage percentage of 100% equates to zero leverage.
A percentage below 100% would mean that the portfolio included uninvested cash whilst a percentage above 100% would mean that the portfolio had leverage to the percentage amount above 100%.
The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and actual level of leverage for the Company: As a percentage of net assets Gross Commitment method method Maximum level of leverage 175% 175% Actual level at 31 October 2014 103% 104% There have been no breaches of the maximum level during the period and no changes to the maximum level of leverage employed by the Company.
There is no right of re-use of collateral or any guarantees granted under the leveraging arrangement.
Changes to the information contained either within this Annual Report or the KIID in relation to any special arrangements in place, the maximum level of leverage which Henderson may employ on behalf of the Company: the right of use of collateral or any guarantee granted under any leveraging arrangement: or any change to the position in relation to any discharge of liability by the Depositary will be notified via a regulatory news service without undue delay in accordance with the AIFMD.
64 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Contents Strategic Report Corporate Report Investment Objectives and Policy 1 Report of the Directors 28-29 Performance Highlights 2-3 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 30 Business Model 4 Investment Objectives 4 D irectors Remuneration Investment Policy 4 Report 31-32 Strategy 4 Corporate Governance Management 4 Statement 33-35 Management Fee 4 Report of the Audit Committee 36-37 Chairmans Statement 5-6 Independent Auditors Report to Fund Managers Report 7 the members of The Bankers Statistical Record 8 Investment Trust PLC 38-39 Rates of Exchange 8 Statement of Comprehensive Income 40 Distribution of Assets and Liabilities 8 Statement of Changes inEquity 41 Largest Investments 9 Statement of Financial Position 42 Changes in Investments 9 Cash Flow Statement 43 Fund Manager Reports 10-20 Notes to the Financial United Kingdom 10Statements 44-61 Europe 12 G eneral Shareholder North America 14 Information 62 Japan 16 Pacific ex Japan 18 Alternative Investment Fund Emerging Markets 20 Managers Directive Disclosures Unaudited 63-64 Portfolio Structure 21 Geographical Analysis 21 Geographical Total Return 21 Sector Analysis 21 Key Information 22-23 Directors 22 Service Providers 23 Financial Calendar 23 Information Sources 23 Investing 23 Corporate Information 24-25 Status 24 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 Borrowing 24 Future Developments 24 Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators 24 Corporate Responsibility 25 Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code 25 Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights and Environmental Matters 25 Gender Representation 25 Glossary 26 The image on the front cover is based on the HSBC Bank Building in Hong Kong.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 HGI9201 2014 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Registered as an investment company in England and Wales with registration number 00026351 Registered office: 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE.
THE BANKERS SEDOL number: 0076700 London Stock Exchange EPIC Code: BNKR Global Intermediary Identification Number GIIN : L5YVFP.
826 Legal Entity Identifier LEI : 213800B9YWXL3X1VMZ69 Telephone 020 7818 1818 INVESTMENT Email: help@henderson.
com TRUST PLC Annual Report 2014 This report is printed on revive 50:50 Silk, a recycled paper containing 50% recycled waste and 50%virgin fibre and manufactured at a mill certified with ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
