The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Yield Directive 'AIFMD' The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union and transposed into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies certain Gearing investment vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings ie bank Investment Funds 'AIFs' and requires them to appoint an Alternative loans or overdrafts the Company has used to invest in the market.
Investment Fund Manager 'AIFM' and Depositary to manage and This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The Board of the would move if the Companys investments were to rise or fall.
This is Company retains responsibility for strategy, operations and compliance calculated by taking the difference between non-current asset and the Directors retain a fiduciary duty to shareholders.
investments and equity shareholders funds divided by equity shareholders funds and multiplied by 100.
Association of Investment Companies 'AIC' The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for Investment Trusts investment companies and represents the industry in relation to Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from Custodian tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also Companys assets and that all transactions in the underlying holdings known as investment companies although the tax legislation retains are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
the reference to investment trusts.
Depositary Liquidity With effect from 22 July 2014 AIFs are required to appoint a In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers Depositary which has responsibility for overseeing the operations of to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
the Company, including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid that of ownership and valuation.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has should find ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is notified that it has discharged its liability in certain markets.
illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price TheDepositary has confirmed that it has not discharged liability that might be negotiated for a sale.
inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
Market Capitalisation 'Market Cap' Derivative The market value of a company calculated by multiplying the A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying Net Asset Value 'NAV' per Ordinary Share securitys value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, The value of the Companys assets ie investments and cash held swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
less any liabilities ie bank borrowings and debt securities for which the Company is responsible divided by the number of shares in issue.
Dividend Dates The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds in the Statement of Financial Position.
The NAV is published daily.
When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which shareholders will receive their dividend either by BACS transfer or by Premium Discount receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the dividend The amount by which the market price per share of an investment is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
register of members at the close of business on the record date will receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset Total Return Performance value will be disclosed ex-dividend.
This is the return on the share price or NAV taking into account both the rise and fall of the share price or NAV respectively and the dividends and interest paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for NAV total return.
