The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 General Shareholder Information BACS ISA Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Bankers The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order to Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are qualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on page 23 to give their Share Price Listings instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily be made.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV and the discount.
Disability Act The market prices of the Companys shares can be found in the Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
are available from the Corporate Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille or larger type Performance Details Share Price Information as appropriate.
Details of the Companys share price and NAV can be found on You can contact the Registrar, Equiniti Limited, which has installed thewebsite.
textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have TheCompanys NAV is published daily.
their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator by dialling 0871 384 2255.
Specially trained Shareholder Details operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their shareholding with the Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a 'typetalk' operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
followed by the number you wish to dial.
Linesare open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You can FCA Restrictions check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares orupdating your details at www.
of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 'FCA' rules in Nominee Share Code relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Investors in Halifax Share Dealing and Henderson ISAs receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided tofacilitate voting at general meetings ofthe Company.
Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, would make unsolicited investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would 'brokers' who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what relate only to official documentation already circulated to often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK shareholders and never in respect of investment 'advice'.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone ofany unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at offers of free company reports.
the numbers provided on page 23.
