The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2014 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board 'IASB', together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee 'IASC' that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of investments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice 'the SORP' for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies 'the AIC' in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
Accounting Standards i New and amended standards adopted by the Company: IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements amendments regarding other comprehensive income.
No impact on financial statements.
IFRS 13, 'Fair Value Measurement' effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
ii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted by the Company: IFRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial Instruments Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 amendment that updates the application guidance in IAS 32, 'Financial instruments: Presentation', to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the Statement of Financial Position.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2014 amendments allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract agree to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
IFRS 9, 'Financial Instruments' effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and not yet EU adopted addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
Itreplaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Company is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014, subject to endorsement by the EU.
