The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2014 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRSs' as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
IFRSs comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board 'IASB', together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee 'IASC' that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of investments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice 'the SORP' for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies 'the AIC' in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
Accounting Standards i New and amended standards adopted by the Company: IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements amendments regarding other comprehensive income.
No impact on financial statements.
IFRS 13, 'Fair Value Measurement' effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
ii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted by the Company: IFRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial Instruments Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 amendment that updates the application guidance in IAS 32, 'Financial instruments: Presentation', to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the Statement of Financial Position.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2014 amendments allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract agree to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
IFRS 9, 'Financial Instruments' effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and not yet EU adopted addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
Itreplaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Company is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2014, subject to endorsement by the EU.
44 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued iii New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not relevant to the Companys operations: IFRS 1 amendments, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities IAS 12 amendment, Income Taxes IAS 19, Employee Benefits IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements IAS 28, Associates and Joint Ventures b Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the statement of financial position is based on their quoted bid price at the statement of financial position date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as 'Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss'.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
c Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. d Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from fixed interest debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Bank deposit interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, a derivative financial instrument is recognised initially at fair value.
The derivative is re-measured subsequently at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income, are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
e Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards expected long-term split of total returns in the form of capital and revenue returns of 70% and 30%, respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fees to capital.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and allocated to other capital reserves.
All other operating expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
45 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued f Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the 'marginal basis'.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the statement of financial position liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
g Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends paid are disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
h Foreign currency For the purposes of the financial statements, the results and financial position is expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss that are denominated in overseas currencies at the statement of financial position date, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Exchange gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss are included within 'Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss'.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
j Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
k Repurchase of ordinary shares The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including related stamp duty and transaction costs are taken directly to equity and disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve.
46 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued l Capital reserves The following are accounted for in the 'Capital reserve arising on investments sold': expenses and finance costs charged to capital net of tax relief: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
The following are accounted for in the 'Capital reserve arising on investments held': increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
m Key estimates and assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
There are no estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities.
n Receivables Receivables are amounts due from securities sold for future settlement, withholding tax recoverable, prepayments and accrued income in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
o Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for securities purchased for future settlement, accruals and deferred income that have been acquired incurred in the ordinary course of business.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
p Policy on operating segments Under IFRS 8, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity, about which separate financial information is available, that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision-maker Henderson, with oversight from the Board in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The Directors meet regularly to consider investment strategy and to monitor the Companys performance.
The Fund Manager, who has been appointed to manage the Companys investments, attends all Board meetings at which investment strategy and performance are discussed.
The Directors consider that the Company has one operating segment: which invests in shares and securities primarily for capital appreciation and dividend growth in accordance with the Companys published investment objectives.
The business is not managed on a geographical basis.
However, for the convenience of investors, disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 3 and in the Fund Manager Reports on pages 10 to 20.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
