F Financial r inancial review eview Balance sheet commentary Total assets Total liabilities Total assets increased 14bn to 1,358bn.
Deposits from banks increased 3bn to 58bn primarily driven by an Cash and balances at central banks and items in the course of collection from other banks decreased 6bn to 41bn, as the cash 8bn increase in cash collateral due to higher derivative mark to market, offset by a 5bn decrease as a result of the reclassification of contribution to the Group liquidity pool was reduced.
the Spanish business to other liabilities.
Trading portfolio assets decreased 18bn to 115bn due to a reduction in debt securities and other eligible bills driven by a decrease in trading Customer accounts decreased 4bn to 428bn as a result of the activity in the Investment Bank and exiting of positions in BNC.
This reclassification of 8bn in relation to the Spanish business to other was partially offset by an increase in equity securities and traded loans.
liabilities and 9bn reduction in settlement balances.
These decreases were partially offset by a 9bn increase in cash collateral balances due Financial assets designated at fair value decreased 1bn to 38bn to higher derivative mark to market and 5bn growth within PCB and reflecting decreases in equity securities, partially offset by increases in Barclaycard.
loans and advances at fair value due to fair value movements, and increased debt securities related to acquisitions.
Trading portfolio liabilities decreased 8bn to 45bn primarily due to reductions in debt securities and other eligible bills following assets Derivative financial instrument assets increased 90bn to 440bn, and securities run-down, and business disposals.
Further reductions in consistent with the movement in derivative financial instrument US treasuries and Euro bond positions were driven by client demand.
liabilities, which increased 92bn to 439bn, driven by an increase in These reductions were partially offset by increased equity securities.
interest rate derivatives of 78bn, reflecting a reduction in the major forward interest rates, and an increase in foreign exchange derivatives Financial liabilities designated at fair value decreased 8bn to 57bn of 14bn due to strengthening of USD against major currencies.
primarily reflecting trade maturities, buybacks and unwinding of existing notes due to reduced funding requirements.
Available for sale investments decreased 6bn to 86bn primarily driven by exiting of positions in BNC and settlements in respect of US Derivative financial instrument liabilities increased 92bn to 439bn in Lehman acquisition assets.
line with the increase in derivative financial assets.
Total loans and advances decreased 4bn to 470bn due to 7bn Debt securities in issue decreased 1bn to 86bn due to the nongrowth in PCB and 5bn growth in Barclaycard, offset by the 13bn renewal of commercial paper, partially offset by increased issuance of reclassification of loans to other assets relating to the Spanish business certificates of deposit.
which is held for sale and a 4bn decrease in BNC driven by a run-off of Subordinated liabilities decreased 1bn to 21bn due to redemptions assets in Europe retail.
of fixed and floating rate subordinated notes, Reserve Capital Reverse repurchase agreements and other similar secured lending Instruments and Tier One Notes, partially offset by the issuance of decreased 55bn to 132bn primarily driven by lower matched book subordinated notes and fair value hedge movements.
trading due to balance sheet deleveraging.
Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowings decreased 72bn to 124bn primarily driven by lower matched book trading due to balance sheet deleveraging and from lower financing requirements as a result of a decrease in long positions.
Shareholders equity Total shareholders equity increased 2.0bn to 66.0bn.
Share capital and share premium increased by 0.9bn to 20.8bn due to the issuance of shares under employee share schemes and the Barclays PLC scrip dividend programme.
Other equity instruments increased by 2.3bn to 4.3bn due to issuance of equity accounted AT1 securities to investors in exchange for the cancellation of preference shares and subordinated debt instruments.
The available for sale reserve increased 0.4bn to 0.6bn driven by 5.3bn of gains from changes in the fair value on government bonds held in the liquidity pool, partially offset by 4.1bn of losses from related hedging, and 0.6bn of net gains transferred to net profit.
The cash flow hedging reserve increased 1.5bn to 1.8bn driven by 2.7bn of gains in the fair value of interest rate swaps held for hedging purposes as forward interest rates decreased, partially offset by 0.7bn of gains transferred to net profit and 0.4bn of tax.
The currency translation reserve increased 0.6bn to a debit balance of 0.6bn largely due to the strengthening of USD against GBP.
Non-controlling interests decreased 2.2bn to 6.4bn, primarily due to a movement in preference shares.
1.5bn of Barclays Bank plc preference shares were bought back and cancelled as part of the AT1 exchange exercise.
An additional 0.7bn of preference shares were redeemed on their first call date.
Net tangible asset value per share increased to 285p 2013: 283p.
This increase was mainly attributable to upward movements in the cash flow hedging reserve, available for sale reserve and currency translation reserve.
228 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
