120 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley plc is a company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Ireland.
The group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Both the financial statements of the parent company, Beazley plc, and the group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company financial statements together with the group financial statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
As a result of IFRS 10 consolidated financial statements, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014, the group has changed its accounting policy for determining whether it has control over and consequently whether it consolidates its investees.
IFRS 10 introduces a new control model that focuses on whether the group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, the group reassessed the control conclusion, including a review of relationships influencing the groups associates, subsidiaries and other related parties for its investees at 1 January 2014.
The group has not changed any of its control conclusions in respect of any investments in subsidiaries or associates.
As the Lloyds syndicates do not carry out business in their own right, they are not considered entities and therefore fall outside the scope of IFRS 10.
The syndicate structure, used by underwriters at Lloyds, is a means for the spreading of risk where each investor provides separate and distinct collateral of its own, and has several and direct liability for losses rather than joint and several liability.
The groups consolidation conclusion in respect of its syndicates remains unchanged from previous periods.
Therefore, there is no impact on the profit or loss for the current or prior year or on equity reported.
There is also no impact on the total assets or liabilities in the comparative period.
In addition to IFRS 10, all other new standards and interpretations released by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB have been considered.
Of these the following new and amended standards have been adopted by the group during the period: IFRS 11: Joint arrangements: IFRS 12: Disclosure of interests in other entities: IAS 27: Amendment: Separate financial statements: IAS 28: Amendment: Investments in associates and joint ventures: IAS 32: Amendment: Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: IAS 36: Amendment: Recoverable amount disclosures for non financial assets: IAS 39: Amendment: Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting: and IFRIC 21: Levies.
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled entities nonmonetary contributions by venturers.
IFRS 11 classifies joint arrangements as either joint operations or joint ventures and focuses on the nature of the rights and obligations of the arrangement.
The predecessor standard, IAS 31, focused to a greater extent on the legal form to determine the presence of jointly controlled entities JCEs which would then have been equity accounted for or proportionately consolidated.
IFRS 11 may result in some of these JCEs instead being seen as joint operations which will be subject to a requirement for the party to directly account for its own assets and liabilities, when additional factors other than legal form are taken into account.
All investee entities determined under the new criteria to be joint ventures will be equity accounted for, with the option for the investor to proportionately consolidate being removed from the new standard.
The adoption of IFRS 11 has no impact on the consolidated financial statements in the current or prior periods.
IFRS 12 sets out more comprehensive disclosures relating to the nature, risks and financial effects of interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
Interests are widely defined as contractual and noncontractual involvement that exposes an entity to variability of returns from the performance of the other entity or operation.
The group has included additional disclosures on unconsolidated structured entities in note 16.
IAS 27 carries forward the existing accounting requirements for separate financial statements: the requirements of IAS 28 and IAS 31 for separate financial statements have been incorporated into IAS 27.
This amendment did not result in a material impact on the financial statements of the company.
com 120 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 121 1 Statement of accounting policies continued IAS 28 previously discussed how to apply equity accounting to associates in consolidated financial statements.
The revised IAS 28 continues to include that guidance but it is now extended to also apply that accounting to entities that qualify as joint ventures under IFRS 11.
IAS 32 was amended to clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and that some gross settlement systems may be considered equivalent to net settlement.
IAS 36 was amended to reverse the unintended requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose the recoverable amount of every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated.
Under the amendments, the recoverable amount is required to be disclosed only when an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed.
IAS 39 was amended to allow hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulation, if specific conditions are met in this context, a novation indicates that parties to a contract agree to replace their original counterparty with a new one.
This relief was introduced in response to legislative changes across many jurisdictions that would lead to the widespread novation of over-the-counter derivatives.
These legislative changes were prompted by a G20 commitment to improve transparency and regulatory oversight of over-the-counter derivatives in a consistent manner.
IFRIC 21 provides guidance on the accounting for levies imposed by governments under legislation in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The interpretation confirms that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when and only when the triggering event specified in the legislation occurs.
An entity does not recognise a liability at an earlier date, even if commercially it has no realistic opportunity to avoid the triggering event.
This standard did not result in a material impact on the financial statements of the company.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
The group does not plan to adopt these standards early: instead it will apply them from their effective dates as determined by their dates of EU endorsement.
The group is still reviewing the impact of the upcoming standards to determine their impact: IFRS 9: Financial instruments 1 January 2018 : IFRS 10: Amendment: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture 1 January 2016 : IFRS 11: Amendment: Accounting for acquisitions on interests in joint operations 1 January 2016 : IFRS 14: Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 : IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2017 : IAS 1: Amendment: Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2016 : IAS 16: Amendment: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 : IAS 19: Amendment: Defined benefit plans 1 July 2014 : IAS 27: Amendment: Equity method in separate financial statements 1 January 2016 : IAS 28: Amendment: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture 1 January 2016 : IAS 38: Amendment: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 : annual improvement to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle 1 July 2014 : annual improvement to IFRSs 2011-2013 cycle 1 July 2014 : and annual improvement to IFRSs 2012-2014 cycle 1 January 2016. standards that have been endorsed by the EU.
Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention except that financial assets and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in US dollars and millions, unless stated otherwise.
The financial statements of Beazley plc have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors of the company have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
com 122 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in this statement of accounting policies and specifically in the following notes: note 1a: accounting treatment for groups interest in managed syndicates: note 12: intangible assets assumptions underlying recoverable amounts : note 16: financial assets and liabilities valuations based on models and unobservable inputs : note 23: equity compensation plans assumptions used to calculate fair value of share options granted : note 24: insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets estimates for losses incurred but not reported : and note 27: retirement benefit obligations actuarial assumptions.
The most critical estimate included within the groups financial position is the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported.
The total estimate net of reinsurers share as at 31 December 2014 is $1,874.5m 2013: $1,872.8m and is included within total insurance liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the group.
The group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, the group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to the noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
The group has used the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations arising on the purchase of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The accounting treatment of acquisition expenses per IFRS 3 2008 has changed: however, as the group applied the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 there is no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in previous periods.
For all business combinations from 1 January 2010: i Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the group incurs in connection with a business combination, are expensed as incurred.
ii In addition, any consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are recognised in profit or loss.
iii Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Equity financial investments made by the parent company in subsidiary undertakings and associates are stated at cost in its separate financial statements and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several and direct liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates are included in the group financial statements.
The group continues to conclude that it remains appropriate to consolidate its share of the result of these syndicates and accordingly, as the group is the sole provider of capacity on syndicates 2623, 3622 and 2623, these financial statements include 100% of the economic interest in these syndicates.
For the other syndicates to which Beazley is appointed managing agent, being syndicates 623 and 6107 and for which the capacity is provided entirely by third parties to the group, these financial statements reflect Beazleys economic interest in the form of agency fees and profit commission to which they are entitled.
This judgement will be kept under review at each reporting date.
com 122 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 123 1 Statement of accounting policies continued b Associates Associates are those entities over which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
Significant influence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method the investments are initially measured at cost and the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Therefore the cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant influence over the investment.
c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated in the group financial statements.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The group financial statements are presented in US dollars, being the functional and presentational currency of the parent and its main trading subsidiaries.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to the period in which the transactions take place and where the group considers these to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Group companies The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the group presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate ruling at the statement of financial position date: income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period where this is determined to be a reasonable approximation of the actual transaction rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of foreign operations cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the statement of profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause Beazley to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
com 124 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method under which the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the reporting date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR, including claims handling expenses.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reflection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the statement of profit or loss initially by writing off DAC and subsequently by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group that meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included with insurance contracts.
Any benefits to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts, having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premiums, net investment income and other income made up of commissions received from Beazley service companies, profit commissions and managing agents fees.
Profit commissions are recognised as profit is earned.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
Dividends paid Dividend distributions to the shareholders of the group are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid, as a first interim dividend, second interim dividend or special dividend, and approved by the groups shareholders at the groups annual general meeting.
com 124 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 125 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years.
These assets residual value and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the statement of profit or loss.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit being the groups operating segments for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is defined as the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
In respect of equity accounted associates, the carrying amount of any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate, and any impairment is allocated to the carrying amount of the associate as a whole.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the statement of financial position.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by those syndicates in which the group participates, namely 2623, 3622 and 3623, and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences have an indefinite useful life and are initially recorded at fair value.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use and fair value, is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programs.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight-line basis subject to impairment.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
e Renewal rights Renewal rights comprise future profits relating to insurance contracts acquired and the expected renewal of those contracts.
The costs directly attributable to acquire the renewal rights are recognised as intangible assets where they can be measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered by directly related future profits.
These costs are subject to impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis, based on the estimated useful life of the assets, which is estimated to be between five and ten years.
com 126 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at such time as the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or cancelled.
a Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into one of the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss, loans and receivables, assets held to maturity and assets available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale classifications.
b Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Except for derivative financial instruments and other financial assets listed below, all financial assets are designated as fair value through the statement of profit or loss upon initial recognition because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
c Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
d Fair value measurement Fair value is the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available as well as representing actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent orderly transactions between market participants if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specific to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Assets and long positions are measured at a bid price: liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking price.
These prices are monitored and deemed to approximate exit price.
Where the group has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate.
Fair values reflect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
com 126 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 127 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs relating to financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are continually measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss exclude interest and dividend income, as these items are accounted for separately as set out below.
e Hedge funds, equity linked funds and illiquid credit assets The group invests in a number of hedge funds, equity linked funds and illiquid credit assets for which there are no available quoted market prices.
The valuation of these assets is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given to adjusting such NAV valuations for any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest available valuations.
At certain times, we will have uncalled unfunded commitments in relation to our illiquid credit assets.
These uncalled unfunded commitments are actively monitored by the group and are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The additional investment into our illiquid credit asset portfolio is recognised on the date that this funding is provided by the group.
f Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
Insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
g Other receivables Other receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
h Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised separately on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest rate method for financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment are the difference between the proceeds and the original cost of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the reporting date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
i Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the statement of profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facilities and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest method.
In addition, finance costs include gains on the early redemption of the groups borrowings.
These gains are recognised in the statement of profit or loss, being the difference between proceeds paid plus related costs and the carrying value of the borrowings redeemed.
j Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost determined according to the effective interest rate method.
k Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash flow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
com 128 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Statement of accounting policies continued Derivative assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and the parties intend to settle on a net basis, or realise the assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
The group has not designated any derivatives as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
l Impairment of financial assets The group considers evidence of impairment for financial assets measured at amortised cost at both a specific asset and collective level.
The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset measured at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
Assets that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together assets with similar risk characteristics.
If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
In assessing collective impairment, the group uses historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or lesser than those suggested by historical trends.
m Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash held at bank, cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
These investments have less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Operating leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made for operating leases are charged to the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The group operates a defined benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualified actuary.
All employees now participate in defined contribution pensions to which the group contributes.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the statement of profit or loss so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualified actuary, who values the plans annually.
The net pension obligation is measured at the present value of the estimated future net cash flows and is stated net of plan assets.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The group also determines the net interest expense income for the period on the net defined benefit liability asset by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability asset at the beginning of the annual period, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Consequently, the net interest on the defined liability asset comprises: interest cost on the defined benefit obligation: interest income on plan assets: and interest on the effect of the asset ceiling.
com 128 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 129 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Net interest expense income is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For the defined contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the statement of profit or loss in the period to which they relate.
b Share-based compensation The group offers option plans over Beazley plcs ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme, details of which are included in the directors remuneration report.
The grant-date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant-date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and retained earnings.
When the options are exercised and the shares are granted from the employee share trust, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to the employee share trust reserve and retained earnings.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised respectively in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
Share options with performance conditions attaching to them have been excluded from the weighted average number of shares to the extent that these conditions have not been met at the reporting date.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP and treasury shares are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
com 130 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
2 Risk management The group has identified the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into eight areas: insurance, strategic, market, operational, credit, regulatory and legal, liquidity and group risk.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
The eight categories of risk have been considered in context of the company Beazley plc : the following areas are applicable to the company: market, operational, regulatory and legal and liquidity.
The following disclosures cover the company to the extent that these areas are applicable.
The symbol by a heading indicates that the information in that section has not been audited.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: cycle risk the risk that business is written without full knowledge as to the in adequacy of rates, terms and conditions: event risk the risk that individual risk losses or catastrophes lead to claims that are higher than anticipated in plans and pricing: pricing risk the risk that the level of expected loss is understated in the pricing process: and expense risk the risk that the allowance for expenses and inflation in pricing is inadequate.
We manage and model these four elements in the following three categories: attritional claims, large claims and catastrophe events.
The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geography and sizes.
The annual business plans for each underwriting team reflect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories and the industry sectors in which business is to be written.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specifically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specific scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
com 130 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 131 2 Risk management continued The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor its exposures against the agreed risk appetite set and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered includes natural catastrophe, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the expected range of losses at different return periods.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high-level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
In 2014 the group operated to a catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1-in-250 years US event of $532m net of reinsurance.
The catastrophe risk appetite reduced by 7% in 2014 from $574m in 2013, due to a change in the catastrophe model.
Lloyds has also defined its own specific set of RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these the three largest, net of reinsurance, events which could have impacted Beazley in 2013 and 2014 are: Unaudited 2014 Modelled Modelled PML before PML after reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event $m $m Los Angeles quake 2014: $78bn 575.1 229.5 Gulf of Mexico windstorm 2014: $112bn 562.9 241.9 US Northeast windstorm 2014: $78bn 497.2 243.9 Unaudited 2013 Modelled Modelled PML before PML after reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event $m $m Los Angeles quake 2013: $78bn 633.5 263.2 Gulf of Mexico windstorm 2013: $112bn 515.5 274.9 US Northeast windstorm 2013: $78bn 478.1 291.1 The net of reinsurance exposures to the above Lloyds RDS events have reduced during 2014 mainly due to additional reinsurance being purchased in the reinsurance division.
In the property division there has been growth in exposure in some regions which has led to an increase in the gross losses for the Gulf of Mexico and Northeast windstorm scenarios.
The largest movements in our top RDS events are the LA and San Francisco quake events which have reduced from $263.2m net in 2013 to $229.5m in 2014 mainly as a result of the additional reinsurance being purchased in the reinsurance division.
The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how and where the event occurs, its magnitude, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specific to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2014, the normal maximum line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was $100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
com 132 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Operating divisions In 2014, the groups business consisted of six operating divisions.
The following table provides a breakdown of gross premiums written by division, and also provides a geographical split based on placement of risk.
UK US 2014 Lloyds non-Lloyds Total Life, accident & health 7% 7% Marine 16% 16% Political risks & contingency 6% 6% Property 17% 17% Reinsurance 10% 10% Specialty lines 35% 9% 44% Total 91% 9% 100% UK US 2013 Lloyds non-Lloyds Total Life, accident & health 5% 5% Marine 16% 16% Political risks & contingency 7% 7% Property 19% 19% Reinsurance 11% 11% Specialty lines 34% 8% 42% Total 92% 8% 100% b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed separately below.
The groups reinsurance programmes complement the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts and monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business, or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the business broader interests.
Prompt and accurate case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses, as soon as a reliable estimate can be made of the claims liability.
com 132 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 133 2 Risk management continued d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress-test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, and actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
2.2 Strategic risk This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
Where events supersede the groups strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
Senior management performance Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its worldwide business in the UK, US, Europe, South America and Asia, management stretch may make the identification, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational flexibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioural expectations reaffirm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
2.3 Market risk Market risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities or future cash flows changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
Efficient management of market risk is key to the investment of group assets.
Appropriate levels of investment risk are determined by limiting the proportion of forecast group earnings which could be at risk from lower than expected investment returns, using a 1 in 10 confidence level as a practical measure of such risk.
In 2014, this permitted variance from the forecast investment return was set at $135m.
For 2015, the permitted variance will be slightly lower.
Investment strategy is developed to be consistent with this limit and investment risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, using outputs from our internal model.
Changes in interest rates also impact the present values of estimated group liabilities, which are used for solvency and capital calculations.
Our investment strategy reflects the nature of our liabilities and the combined market risk of investment assets and estimated liabilities is monitored and managed within specified limits.
a Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Beazley plc and its main trading entities is the US dollar and the presentational currency in which the group reports its consolidated results is the US dollar.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for non-dollar denominated transactions and to net asset translation risk on non-dollar functional currency entities.
The group operates in four main currencies: US dollars, sterling, Canadian dollars and euros.
Transactions in all currencies are converted to US dollars on initial recognition with any resulting monetary items being translated to the US dollar spot rate at the reporting date.
Remaining foreign exchange risk is still actively managed as described below.
com 134 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued In 2014, the group managed its foreign exchange risk by periodically assessing its non-dollar exposures and hedging these to a tolerable level while targeting to have net assets that are predominantly denominated in US dollar.
As part of this hedging strategy, exchange rate derivatives were used to rebalance currency exposure across the group.
Details of all foreign currency derivative contracts entered into with external parties are disclosed in note 17.
On a forward looking basis an assessment is made of expected future exposure development and appropriate currency trades put in place to reduce risk.
The groups underwriting capital is matched by currency to the principal underlying currencies of its written premiums.
This helps to mitigate the risk that the groups capital required to underwrite business is materially affected by any future movements in exchange rates.
The group also has subsidiaries with functional currencies that are different from the groups presentational currency.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for US dollar denominated transactions and net assets arising in those foreign currency subsidiaries.
It also gives rise to a currency translation exposure for the group to sterling, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars and Australian dollars on translation to the groups presentational currency, although these exposures are minimal.
The following table summarises the carrying value of total assets and total liabilities categorised by the groups main currencies: UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 860.5 118.8 324.4 1,303.7 5,139.0 6,442.7 Total liabilities 834.6 110.8 312.1 1,257.5 3,842.5 5,100.0 Net assets 25.9 8.0 12.3 46.2 1,296.5 1,342.7 UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 886.8 117.3 371.4 1,375.5 5,209.1 6,584.6 Total liabilities 888.8 116.3 345.1 1,350.2 3,895.7 5,245.9 Net assets 2.0 1.0 26.3 25.3 1,313.4 1,338.7 Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups trading currencies against the US dollar would result in a change to profit after tax and net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on profit after tax and net assets of a percentage change in the relative strength of the US dollar against the value of sterling, the Canadian dollar and the euro, simultaneously.
The analysis is based on current information.
Impact on profit after tax for the year ended Impact on net assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 Change in exchange rate of sterling, Canadian dollar and euro relative to US dollar $m $m $m $m Dollar weakens 30% against other currencies 11.9 6.4 22.8 12.5 Dollar weakens 20% against other currencies 7.9 4.3 15.2 8.3 Dollar weakens 10% against other currencies 4.0 2.1 7.6 4.2 Dollar strengthens 10% against other currencies 4.0 2.1 7.6 4.2 Dollar strengthens 20% against other currencies 7.9 4.3 15.2 8.3 Dollar strengthens 30% against other currencies 11.9 6.4 22.8 12.5 b Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, certain financial assets at fair value and borrowings, are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short duration financial assets along with cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The group also entered into interest rate futures contracts to manage the interest rate risk on bond portfolios.
com 134 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 135 2 Risk management continued The following table shows the average duration at the reporting date of the financial instruments that are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
If the debt is settled when due in October 2026 the duration of the debt falls within the 10 yrs category.
If the debt is called in October 2016, the duration of the debt falls within the 1-2 yrs 2013: 2-3 yrs category.
Also included in borrowings is $18m of a subordinated debt facility raised in 2004 which is unsecured.
The subordinated notes are due in 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
Sensitivity analysis Changes in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in changes in the capital value of debt securities and borrowings as well as subsequent interest receipts and payments.
This would affect reported profits and net assets as indicated in the table below: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m Shift in yield basis points 150 basis point increase 81.2 68.3 81.2 68.3 100 basis point increase 54.1 45.4 54.1 45.4 50 basis point increase 27.1 22.9 27.1 22.9 50 basis point decrease 27.1 22.9 27.1 22.9 100 basis point decrease 54.1 45.4 54.1 45.4 c Price risk Financial assets and derivatives that are recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Financial assets include fixed and floating rate debt securities, hedge funds, illiquid credit assets, equity linked funds and derivative financial assets depending on the groups appetite for risk.
The fixed income securities are well diversified across high quality, liquid securities.
The price risk associated with these securities is predominantly interest, foreign exchange and credit risk related.
The sensitivity to price risk that relates to the groups hedge fund investments, illiquid credit assets and equity linked funds is presented below.
The groups hedge funds and equity linked funds are limited to a small and manageable part of the total investment portfolio.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines in relation to this, with investment managers setting out maximum investment limits, requirements for diversification across industries and limits to concentrations in any one industry or company.
com 136 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Listed investments that are quoted in an active market are recognised in the statement of financial position at quoted bid price, which is deemed to be approximate exit price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques refer to note 16.
This includes comparison of orderly transactions between market participants, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m Change in fair value of hedge funds, equity linked funds and illiquid credit assets 30% increase in fair value 143.4 130.5 143.4 130.5 20% increase in fair value 95.6 87.0 95.6 87.0 10% increase in fair value 47.8 43.5 47.8 43.5 10% decrease in fair value 47.8 43.5 47.8 43.5 20% decrease in fair value 95.6 87.0 95.6 87.0 30% decrease in fair value 143.4 130.5 143.4 130.5 2.4 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third-party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
Key components of the groups operational control environment include: modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing: management review of activities: documentation of policies and procedures: preventative and detective controls within key processes: contingency planning: and other systems controls.
Capital management The group follows a risk-based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk profile.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: to support underwriting at Lloyds through the syndicates in which it participates, being 2623, 3623 and 3622.
This is based on the groups own individual capital assessment.
It may be provided in the form of either the groups cash and investments or debt facilities: to support underwriting in Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: and to make acquisitions of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
Further information on the groups capital management activities can be found on page 48. www.
com 136 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 137 2 Risk management continued 2.5 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: reinsurers whereby reinsurers may fail to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the group: brokers and coverholders whereby counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the group: investments whereby issuer default results in the group losing all or part of the value of a financial instrument and derivative financial instrument: and cash and cash equivalents.
The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
The group limits exposure to a single counterparty or a group of counterparties and analyses the geographical locations of exposures when assessing credit risk.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced, incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investments committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the reinsurance security committee RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 The following tables summarise the groups concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value fixed and floating rate debt securities 3,273.3 235.5 8.5 3,517.3 equity linked funds 145.9 145.9 hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 367.0 367.0 illiquid credit assets 45.9 45.9 derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 Insurance receivables 587.0 587.0 Reinsurance assets 1,053.2 1,053.2 Other receivables 20.2 20.2 Cash and cash equivalents 364.2 364.2 Total 4,710.9 235.5 8.5 1,147.1 6,102.0 www.
com 138 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value fixed and floating rate debt securities 3,303.2 219.7 3,522.9 equity linked funds 139.7 139.7 hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 369.8 369.8 illiquid credit assets 6.8 6.8 derivative financial instruments 4.4 4.4 Insurance receivables 617.7 617.7 Reinsurance assets 1,178.2 1,178.2 Other receivables 41.7 41.7 Cash and cash equivalents 382.7 382.7 Total 4,905.8 219.7 1,138.4 6,263.9 The largest counterparty exposure within tier 1 is $426.6m of US Treasuries 2013: $471.1m.
Financial investments falling within the unrated category comprise hedge funds and equity linked funds for which there is no readily available market data to allow classification within the respective tiers.
Additionally, insurance receivables are classified as unrated, due to premium debtors not being credit rated.
Insurance receivables and other receivables balances held by the group have not been impaired, based on all evidence available, and no impairment provision has been recognised in respect of these assets.
Insurance receivables in respect of coverholder business are credit controlled by third-party managers.
We monitor third party coverholders performance and their financial processes through the groups coverholder management team.
These assets are individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterparties financial position, patterns of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment in respect of the reinsurance assets at 31 December 2014 was as follows: Individual Collective impairment impairment Total $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2013 8.1 9.9 18.0 Impairment loss written back recognised 3.6 0.1 3.5 Balance at 31 December 2013 4.5 10.0 14.5 Impairment loss written back recognised 1.0 0.6 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2014 3.5 10.6 14.1 The group has insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due at the reporting date.
An aged analysis of these is presented below: Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2014 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 25.1 7.2 3.1 9.6 45.0 Reinsurance assets 2.0 8.2 0.3 4.1 14.6 Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 22.7 7.2 2.4 7.0 39.3 Reinsurance assets 4.4 2.1 2.0 4.2 12.7 The total impairment in respect of reinsurance assets past due by more than 30 days at 31 December 2014 was $3.5m 2013: $5.1m.
com 138 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 139 2 Risk management continued The group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due more than 30 days are still collectable in full, based on historic payment behaviour and analyses of credit risk.
2.6 Regulatory and legal risk Regulatory and legal risk is the risk arising from not complying with regulatory and legal requirements.
The operations of the group are subject to legal and regulatory requirements within the jurisdictions in which it operates and the groups compliance function is responsible for ensuring that these requirements are adhered to.
2.7 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event details of the groups exposure to realistic disaster scenarios RDS are provided on page 131.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be converted into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash flow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash flow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 25.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on pages 48 to 49.
This is the surplus over expected working capital and regulatory capital requirements and represents a buffer that could be used to meet unforeseen costs or take advantage of new opportunities.
The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash flows based on the net claims liabilities balance held at 31 December: Weighted average term Within Greater than to settlement 31 December 2014 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total years Life, accident & health 50.8 13.7 0.5 65.0 0.8 Marine 103.0 86.1 33.1 17.6 239.8 1.9 Political risks & contingency 49.8 28.2 10.5 3.5 92.0 1.5 Property 126.1 72.7 20.0 12.5 231.3 1.6 Reinsurance 95.3 62.0 16.8 11.2 185.3 1.7 Specialty lines 483.3 694.5 362.8 310.2 1,850.8 2.9 Net insurance liabilities 908.3 957.2 443.7 355.0 2,664.2 For a breakdown of net claims liabilities refer to note 24.
com 140 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The following table is an analysis of the net contractual cash flows based on all the liabilities held at 31 December: Within Greater than 31 December 2014 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 908.3 957.2 443.7 355.0 2,664.2 Borrowings 122.5 115.8 18.0 256.3 Other payables 255.5 255.5 Within Greater than 31 December 2013 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total Net insurance liabilities 886.3 942.1 442.7 371.0 2,642.1 Borrowings 132.1 141.0 273.1 Other payables 307.8 307.8 The group makes additional interest payments for borrowings.
Further details are provided in notes 8 and 25.
The next two tables summarise the carrying amount at reporting date of financial instruments analysed by maturity date.
If the debt is settled when due in October 2026 the maturity date of the debt falls within the 10 yrs category.
If the debt is called in October 2016, the maturity date of the debt falls within the 1-2 yrs 2013: 2-3 yrs category.
com 140 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 141 2 Risk management continued 2.8 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities.
There are two main components of group risk which are explained below.
a Contagion Contagion risk is the risk arising from actions of one part of the group which could adversely affect any other part of the group.
As the two largest components of the group, this is of particular relevance for actions in any of the US operations adversely affecting the UK operations and vice versa.
The group has limited appetite for contagion risk and minimises the impact of this occurring by operating with clear lines of communication across the group to ensure all group entities are well informed and working to common goals.
b Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in the US, Europe, Asia, South America and Australasia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
3 Segmental analysis a Reporting segments Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
These are based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represent the level at which financial information is reported to the board, being the chief operating decision-maker as defined in IFRS 8.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group, as described below: Life, accident & health This segment underwrites life, health, personal accident, sports and income protection risks.
Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo and specie, piracy, aviation, kidnap & ransom and war risks.
Political risks & contingency This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and construction and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This division specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, casualty clash, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
Specialty lines This segment underwrites professional liability, management liability and environmental liability, including architects and engineers, healthcare, lawyers, technology, media and business services, directors and officers and employment practices risks.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The reporting segments do not cross-sell business to each other.
There are no individual policyholders who comprise greater than 10% of the groups total gross premiums written.
com 144 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued c Information about geographical areas The groups operating segments are also managed geographically by placement of risk.
UK earned premium in the analysis below represents all risks placed at Lloyds and US earned premium represents all risks placed at the groups US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. An analysis of gross premiums written split geographically by placement of risk and by reportable segment is provided in note 2 on page 132.
2014 2013 $m $m Capital expenditure Non US 5.5 5.4 US 0.2 1.2 5.7 6.6 4 Net investment income 2014 2013 $m $m Interest and dividends on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 67.1 68.0 Interest on cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.7 Realised losses on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 16.3 7.1 Net unrealised fair value gains losses on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 41.9 7.9 Investment income from financial investments 93.3 53.7 Investment management expenses 10.3 10.4 83.0 43.3 www.
com 145 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 145 5 Other income 2014 2013 $m $m Commissions received from Beazley service companies 14.2 23.2 Profit commissions from syndicates 623 6107 9.9 11.0 Agency fees from 623 2.3 2.0 Other income 0.2 0.2 26.6 36.4 6 Operating expenses 2014 2013 $m $m Operating expenses include: Amounts receivable by the auditor and associates in respect of: the auditing of accounts of the companys subsidiaries 1.2 1.2 taxation compliance services 0.1 0.2 all other assurance services not included above 0.4 0.3 all other non-audit services not included above 1.7 1.7 Impairment loss written back on reinsurance assets 0.4 3.5 Impairment loss recognised on intangible assets refer to note 12 11.5 Impairment loss recognised on investment in associates refer to note 14 1.4 Operating leases 9.2 8.8 Other than the fees disclosed above, no other fees were paid to the companys auditor.
7 Employee benefit expenses 2013 2014 $m $m restated Wages and salaries 120.7 111.7 Short term incentive payments 68.7 62.4 Social security 18.7 11.8 Share-based remuneration 15.6 16.3 Pension costs 10.0 8.7 233.7 210.9 Recharged to syndicate 623 34.5 31.6 199.2 179.3 Pension costs refer to the contributions made under the defined contribution scheme.
Further information on the defined benefit pension scheme can be found in note 27. www.
com 146 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Finance costs 2014 2013 $m $m Interest expense 16.4 16.2 Profit on debt buyback 2.1 Other finance costs 1.1 16.4 15.2 During 2013, Beazley bought back a total nominal amount of $39.5m of debt at market value of $37.4m in the form of fixed floating rate subordinated notes falling due in 2026.
A profit of $2.1m was realised in the difference between the carrying value and the nominal amount of the debt bought back.
Refer to note 25 for further detail on the subordinated debt.
9 Income tax expense 2014 2013 $m $m Current tax expense Current year 95.6 60.6 Prior year adjustments 5.5 4.3 101.1 64.9 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 55.2 12.1 Impact of change in UK tax rates 0.4 Prior year adjustments 2.2 3.5 57.0 15.6 Income tax expense 44.1 49.3 Profit before tax 261.9 313.3 Tax calculated at Irish rate 32.7 39.2 Rates applied 12.5% 12.5% Effects of: tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 4.9 10.5 non-deductible expenses 3.5 1.7 tax relief on share based payments current and future years 1.4 0.3 under over provided in prior years 3.3 0.8 change in UK tax rates 0.4 3.8 foreign exchange on tax 0.7 2.9 foreign tax recoverable 1.7 Tax charge for the period 44.1 49.3 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 14.8% 2013: 15.9%.
This is the weighted average of the tax rates applied to the profits earned in each country in which the group operates.
T he Budget 2013 announced that the UK corporation rate would reduce to 21% at 1 April 2014, with a further reduction to 20% in 2015.
The reductions in the UK tax rate to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and 20% effective from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
The reduction to 20% will reduce the companys future current tax charge and the deferred tax liability as at 31 December 2014 has been calculated based on this tax rate.
com 146 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 147 10 Earnings per share 2014 2013 Basic cents 43.1c 52.4c Diluted cents 41.8c 51.2c Basic pence 26.1p 33.6p Diluted pence 25.3p 32.8p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $217.8m 2013: $264.0m by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 505.4m 2013: 503.7m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP of 16.0m 2013: 17.3m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $217.8m 2013: $264.0m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 521.2m 2013: 515.4m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP of 16.0m 2013: 17.3m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
11 Dividends per share A second interim dividend of 6.2p per ordinary share 2013: 5.9p and a special dividend of 11.8p 2013: 16.1p will be payable on 27 March 2015 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 27 February 2015 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2014.
The company expects the total amount to be paid in respect of the second interim and special dividend to be approximately 91m.
These financial statements do not provide for the second interim dividend and the special dividend as a liability.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.1p 2013: 2.9p this gives a total dividend for the year of 21.1p 2013: 24.9p.
The aforementioned interim and special dividends will be payable on 27 March 2015 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 27 February 2015 save to the extent that shareholders on the register of members on 27 February 2015 are to be paid a dividend by a subsidiary of the company being Beazley DAS Limited resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom pursuant to elections made or deemed to have been made and such shareholders shall have no right to this second interim dividend.
com 148 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 149 12 Intangible assets continued Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and US insurance authorisation licences are deemed to have indefinite life as they are expected to have value in use that does not erode or become obsolete over the course of time.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
They are allocated to the groups cash-generating units CGUs as follows: Life, Political accident risks & Specialty & health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 28.6 2.3 1.0 24.9 0.8 4.4 62.0 Capacity 0.3 1.6 0.7 2.5 0.8 4.8 10.7 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 28.9 3.9 1.7 29.3 1.6 16.6 82.0 Life, Political accident risks & Specialty & health Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 28.6 2.3 1.0 24.9 0.8 4.4 62.0 Capacity 0.3 1.6 0.7 2.5 0.8 4.8 10.7 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 28.9 3.9 1.7 29.3 1.6 16.6 82.0 When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated using projected cash flows based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period taking into account historic growth rates and expected future market conditions.
A pre tax discount rate of 10% 2013: 9% has been used to discount the projected cash flows of each CGU.
The same discount rate has been applied to all operating segments as these segments all undertake underwriting activities supported by the same capital base.
The discount rate of 10% 2013: 9% reflects the groups expected return on equity and cost of borrowing and has been calculated using independent measures of the risk-free rate of return and the groups risk profile relative to the risk-free and market rates of return and, as such, is considered representative of the rate appropriate to the risk specific to the CGU.
The impairment tests have been performed assuming the groups operating segments are the CGUs to which the intangible assets have been allocated.
As at 31 December 2014, the financial budgets for the life, accident and health segment, in particular, have been challenged in light of the losses incurred in the past 2 years and management are comfortable the forecast profits are achievable, supporting the recoverability of the goodwill balance held.
Headroom was calculated in respect of the value in use of all the groups other intangible assets.
Impairment losses During 2013, there were indicators that the performance of certain insurance contracts relating to specific renewal rights within our life, accident & health and specialty lines divisions was not in line with expectation.
As a result, the value in use of these renewal rights was estimated to be less than the carrying value and impairment losses, of $7.5m and $4.0m respectively, were recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
com 150 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Plant and equipment Company Group Fixtures & Fixtures & Computer fittings fittings equipment Total $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2013 2.5 22.2 8.0 30.2 Additions 1.5 1.5 Foreign exchange loss gain 0.2 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2013 2.3 22.2 9.6 31.8 Balance at 1 January 2014 2.3 22.2 9.6 31.8 Additions 0.2 0.2 0.4 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.1 0.9 0.2 1.1 Balance at 31 December 2014 2.4 21.5 9.6 31.1 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2013 1.1 15.5 7.7 23.2 Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 2.0 0.4 2.4 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2013 1.2 17.6 8.2 25.8 Balance at 1 January 2014 1.2 17.6 8.2 25.8 Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 1.6 0.8 2.4 Foreign exchange loss gain 0.1 0.7 0.3 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2014 1.5 18.5 8.7 27.2 Carrying amounts 31 December 2014 0.9 3.0 0.9 3.9 31 December 2013 1.1 4.6 1.4 6.0 www.
com 150 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 151 14 Investment in associates 2014 2013 Group $m $m As at 1 January 8.4 10.0 Investment in Equinox Global Limited 1.6 0.1 Investment in Capson Corp. Inc 1.6 Impairment of Falcon Management Holdings Limited 1.4 Share of loss after tax 1.1 0.3 As at 31 December 10.5 8.4 The groups investment in associates consists of: Country of % interest Carrying value incorporation held $m 2014 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 25% Capson Corp. Inc. and subsidiary USA 32% 7.6 Equinox Global Limited and subsidiary UK 36% 2.9 10.5 The aggregate financial information for all associates 100% is as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Assets 38.1 38.0 Liabilities 22.7 24.7 Equity 15.4 13.3 Revenue 24.0 21.7 Loss after tax 2.3 0.9 All of the investments in associates are unlisted and are equity accounted using financial information as at 31 December 2014.
Equinox Global Limited and Capson Corp Inc are both insurance intermediaries.
Falcon Management Holdings Limited is an investment management company which also acts in an intermediary capacity.
During 2013, Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries had indicated that due to a loss in future revenue, a restructuring of its operations is highly likely.
As a result, the fair value of this investment was less than the carrying value and an impairment loss of $1.4m was recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
The investment does not relate to a specific reportable segment and the impairment loss was allocated to all reportable segments refer to note 3.
2014 2013 $m $m As at 1 January 1.4 Impairment of Falcon Management Holdings Limited 1.4 As at 31 December The companys investment in associates consists of: Country of % interest Carrying value Company incorporation held $m 2014 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 25% The aggregate financial information for the associate 100% is as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Assets 8.2 11.8 Liabilities 4.6 9.3 Equity 2.5 Revenue 9.3 8.8 Profit after tax The investment in the associate is unlisted and is equity accounted using unaudited financial information as at 31 December 2014. www.
com 152 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Deferred acquisition costs 2014 2013 $m $m Balance at 1 January 206.0 185.0 Additions 457.9 452.5 Amortisation charge 441.2 431.5 Balance at 31 December 222.7 206.0 16 Financial assets and liabilities 2014 2013 $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities: Government issued 820.1 826.0 Quasi-government 585.7 717.9 Supranational 439.8 348.3 Corporate bonds Investment grade 1,111.5 1,268.4 High yield 80.1 Syndicated bank loans 101.5 Asset backed securities 378.6 362.3 Total fixed and floating rate debt securities 3,517.3 3,522.9 Equity linked funds 145.9 139.7 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 367.0 369.8 Illiquid credit assets 45.9 6.8 Total capital growth 558.8 516.3 Total financial investments at fair value through statement of profit or loss 4,076.1 4,039.2 Derivative financial assets 1.3 4.4 Total financial assets at fair value 4,077.4 4,043.6 Quasi-government securities include securities which are issued by government agencies or entities supported by government guarantees.
Supranational securities are issued by institutions sponsored by more than one sovereign issuer.
Asset-backed securities are backed by financial assets, including mortgage, credit card and auto loan receivables.
Investment grade credit assets are any corporate bonds rated as BBBBaa3 or higher by one or more major rating agency, while the remainder of our corporate bonds are rated as high yield.
Equity linked funds are investment vehicles which are predominantly exposed to equity securities.
Broadly speaking, we would expect the returns in our equity linked funds to track returns seen on worldwide, and particularly the US, stock markets.
Our illiquid credit assets are described in further detail below.
The fair value of these assets at 31 December 2014 excludes an unfunded commitment of $89.8m 2013: $nil.
2014 2013 The amount expected to mature within and after one year are: $m $m Within 1 year 807.0 930.0 After 1 year 2,711.6 2,597.3 Total 3,518.6 3,527.3 Our capital growth assets have no defined maturity dates and have thus been excluded from the above maturity table.
However, $126.0m 2013: $124.0m of equity linked funds could be liquidated within two weeks and the balance within six months, $317.0m 2013: $326.0m of hedge fund assets within six months and the remaining $50.0m 2013: $43.8m of hedge fund assets within 18 months.
Illiquid credit assets are not readily realisable and principal will be returned over the life of these assets, which may be up to ten years.
com 152 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 153 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued 2014 2013 Financial liabilities $m $m Retail bond 115.8 123.0 Subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 122.5 132.1 Derivative financial liabilities 0.5 1.8 Total financial liabilities 256.8 274.9 The amount expected to mature before and after one year are: Within one year 0.5 1.8 After one year 256.3 273.1 256.8 274.9 A breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on page 44.
A breakdown of derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 17.
As noted on page 127 consideration is also given when valuing the hedge funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest valuations.
The adjustment to the underlying net asset value of the funds as a result of these considerations was $nil at 31 December 2014 2013: $nil.
The retail bond was issued by the company.
Refer to note 25 for further details.
The group has given a fixed and floating charge over certain of its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 32.
Valuation hierarchy The table below summarises financial assets carried at fair value using a valuation hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the instrument occur with sufficient frequency and volume on an ongoing basis such that quoted prices reflect prices at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
Included within level 1 are bonds and treasury bills of government and government agencies which are measured based on quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or based on pricing models for which significant inputs can be corroborated by observable market data e. g. interest rates, exchange rates.
Included within level 2 are government bonds and treasury bills which are not actively traded, corporate bonds, asset backed securities and mortgage-backed securities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable or for which there is limited market activity against which to measure fair value.
The availability of financial data can vary for different financial assets and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgement.
Accordingly the degree of judgement exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for instruments classified in level 3.
The group uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date for valuation of these instruments.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability can be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
The group has an established control framework and valuation policy with respect to the measurement of fair values.
com 154 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued Level 2 investments For the groups level 2 debt securities our fund administrator obtains the prices used in the valuation from independent pricing vendors such as Bloomberg, Standard and Poors, Reuters, Markit and International Data Corporation.
The independent pricing vendors derive an evaluated price from observable market inputs.
The market inputs include trade data, two-sided markets, institutional bids, comparable trades, dealer quotes, news media, and other relevant market data.
These inputs are verified in their pricing engines and calibrated with the pricing models to calculate spread to benchmarks, as well as other pricing assumptions such as Weighted Average life WM, Discount Margins DM, Default rates, and recovery and prepayment assumptions for mortgage securities.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
The group records the unadjusted price provided and validates the price through various tolerance checks such as comparison with the investment custodians and the investment managers to assess the reasonableness and accuracy of the price to be used to value the security.
In the rare case that the price fails the tolerance test, it is escalated and discussed internally.
We would not override the price on a retrospective basis, but we would work with the administrator and pricing vendor to investigate the difference.
This generally results in the vendor updating their inputs.
We also review the valuation policy on a regular basis to ensure it is fit for purpose.
No adjustments have been made to the prices obtained from the administrator at the current year end.
For our hedge funds and equity linked funds, the pricing and valuation of each fund is undertaken by administrators in accordance with each underlying funds valuation policy.
For the equity linked funds, the individual fund prices are published on a daily or weekly basis via Bloomberg and other market data providers such as Reuters.
For the hedge funds, the individual fund prices are communicated by the administrators to all investors via the monthly investor statements.
The fair value of the hedge fund and equity linked fund portfolios are calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values of each of the individual funds.
Additional information is obtained from fund managers relating to the underlying assets within individual hedge funds and equity linked funds.
We identified that 59% 2013: 70% of these underlying assets were level 1 and the remainder level 2.
This enables us to categorise hedge funds as level 2.
Prior to any new hedge fund investment, extensive due diligence is undertaken on each fund to ensure that pricing and valuation is undertaken by the administrators and that each funds valuation policy is appropriate for the financial instruments the manager will be employing to execute the investment strategy.
Fund liquidity terms are reviewed prior to the execution of any investment to ensure that there is no mismatch between the liquidity of the underlying fund assets and the liquidity terms offered to fund investors.
As part of the monitoring process, underlying fund subscriptions and redemptions are assessed by reconciling the increase or decrease in fund assets with the investment performance in any given period.
Level 3 investments During 2014, the groups investment committee approved additional allocations to an illiquid asset portfolio comprising of investments in funds managed by third party managers generally closed end Limited Partnerships or open ended funds.
While the funds provide full transparency on their underlying investments, the investments themselves are in many cases private and unquoted, and are therefore classified as level 3 investments.
These inputs can be subjective and may include a discount rate applied to the investment based on market factors and expectations of future cash flows, the nature of the investment, local market conditions, trading values on public exchanges for comparable securities, current and projected operating performance relative to benchmarks, financial condition, and financing transactions subsequent to the acquisition of the investment.
We take the following steps to ensure accurate valuation of these level 3 assets.
A substantial part of the preinvestment due diligence process is dedicated to a comprehensive review of each funds valuation policy and the internal controls of the manager.
In addition to this, confirmation that the investment reaches a minimum set of standards relating to the independence of service providers, corporate governance, and transparency is sought prior to approval.
Post investment, unaudited capital statements confirming the fair value of the Limited Partner interests are received and reviewed on a quarterly or more frequent basis.
Audited financial statements are received on an annual basis, with the valuation of each transaction being confirmed.
com 154 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 155 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued The following table shows the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2014 $m $m $m $m Financial assets measured at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities Government issued 779.7 40.4 820.1 Quasi-government 310.3 275.4 585.7 Supranational 323.2 116.6 439.8 Corporate bonds Investment bonds 48.2 1,063.3 1,111.5 High yield 80.1 80.1 Syndicated bank loans 101.5 101.5 Asset backed securities 378.6 378.6 Equity linked funds 145.9 145.9 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 367.0 367.0 Illiquid credit assets 7.9 38.0 45.9 Derivative financial assets 1.3 1.3 Total financial assets measured at fair value 1,462.7 2,576.7 38.0 4,077.4 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial liabilities 0.5 0.5 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Retail bond 124.7 124.7 Tier 2 subordinated debt 127.1 122.5 Total financial liabilities not measured at fair value 251.8 247.2 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2013 $m $m $m $m Financial assets measured at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities Government issued 758.2 67.8 826.0 Quasi-government 392.1 325.8 717.9 Supranational 348.3 348.3 Corporate bonds Investment bonds 187.0 1,081.4 1,268.4 High yield Syndicated bank loans Asset backed securities 362.3 362.3 Equity linked funds 139.7 139.7 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 369.8 369.8 Illiquid credit assets 6.8 6.8 Derivative financial assets 4.4 4.4 Total financial assets measured at fair value 1,690.0 2,353.6 4,043.6 www.
com 156 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2013 $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial liabilities 1.8 1.8 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Retail bond 128.9 128.9 Tier 2 subordinated debt 135.9 135.9 Total financial liabilities not measured at fair value 264.8 264.8 The table above does not include financial assets and liabilities that are, in accordance with the groups accounting policies, recorded at amortised cost, if the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates their fair values at the reporting date.
Unconsolidated structured entities A structured entity is defined as an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
As part of its standard investment activities the group holds investments in asset backed securities, equity linked funds, hedge funds and illiquid credit assets the capital growth assets which in accordance with IFRS 12 are classified as unconsolidated structured entities.
The group does not sponsor any of the unconsolidated structured entities.
The assets classified as unconsolidated structured entities are held at fair value on the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2014 the investments comprising the groups unconsolidated structured entities are as follows: 2014 $m Asset backed securities 378.6 Equity linked funds 145.9 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 367.0 Illiquid credit assets 45.9 Investments through unconsolidated structured entities 937.4 Transfers and level 3 investment reconciliations There were no transfers in either direction between level 1, level 2 and level 3 in either 2013 or 2014.
The table below shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances of level 3 fair values.
2014 2013 $m $m As at 1 January Purchases 38.0 Total net gains losses recognised in profit or loss As at 31 December 38.0 As described in note 2 to the financial statements, the group monitors and manages its currency exposures to net assets and financial assets held at fair value.
com 156 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 157 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued The currency exposures of our financial assets held at fair value are detailed below: UK CAD $ EURO Subtotal US $ Total 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities 307.3 155.4 182.3 645.0 2,872.3 3,517.3 Equity linked funds 53.1 54.7 107.8 38.1 145.9 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 2.7 2.7 364.3 367.0 Illiquid credit assets 45.9 45.9 Derivative financial assets 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.3 Total 360.4 155.4 239.8 755.6 3,321.8 4,077.4 UK CAD $ EURO Subtotal US $ Total 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities 421.4 167.5 192.6 781.5 2,741.4 3,522.9 Equity linked funds 53.9 49.9 103.8 35.9 139.7 Hedge funds uncorrelated strategies 18.8 18.8 351.0 369.8 Illiquid credit assets 6.8 6.8 Derivative financial assets 4.4 4.4 Total 475.3 167.5 261.3 904.1 3,139.5 4,043.6 The above qualitative and quantitative disclosure along with the risk management discussions in note 2 enables more comprehensive evaluation of Beazleys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
17 Derivative financial instruments In 2014 and 2013 the group entered into over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative contracts.
The group had the right and the intention to settle each contract on a net basis.
The assets and liabilities of these contracts at 31 December are detailed below: 2014 2013 Gross contract Fair value Gross contract Fair value amount of assets amount of assets Derivative financial instrument assets $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.5 0.2 6.5 Bond future contract 128.0 1.1 64.1 4.4 131.5 1.3 70.6 4.4 2014 2013 Gross contract Fair value Gross contract Fair value amount of liabilities amount of liabilities Derivative financial instrument liabilities $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange forward contracts 44.6 0.4 170.0 1.8 Bond future contract 0.1 44.6 0.5 170.0 1.8 Foreign exchange forward contracts The group entered into over-the-counter foreign exchange forward agreements in order to hedge the foreign currency exposure resulting from transactions and balances held in currencies that are different to the functional currency of the group.
Bond future contract The group entered in bond futures trades to manage the investment portfolio duration.
The vast majority of the trades were executed in order to partially hedge the duration of fixed income securities held at the same time.
Occasionally, bond future contracts were traded in order to gain interest rate duration exposure to certain areas of the yield curve.
com 158 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Insurance receivables 2014 2013 $m $m Insurance receivables 587.0 617.7 587.0 617.7 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables and their carrying values approximate fair value at the reporting date.
19 Reinsurance assets 2014 2013 $m $m Reinsurers share of claims 874.8 992.9 Impairment provision 14.1 14.5 860.7 978.4 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 192.5 199.8 1,053.2 1,178.2 Further analysis of the reinsurance assets is provided in note 24.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2014 2013 Group $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 261.0 266.6 Short term deposits and highly liquid investments 103.2 116.1 364.2 382.7 Total cash and cash equivalents include $42.2m held in Lloyds Singapore trust accounts.
These funds are only available for use by the group to meet local claim and expense obligations.
com 159 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 159 22 Other reserves Employee Employee Merger share options share trust reserve reserve reserve Total $m $m $m $m Group Balance at 1 January 2013 15.4 23.0 50.2 42.6 Share based payments 19.1 19.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 17.7 17.7 Reclassification of reserves 4.3 4.3 Transfer of shares to employees 11.3 14.7 3.4 Balance at 31 December 2013 15.4 26.5 48.9 37.8 Share based payments 15.3 15.3 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 12.5 12.5 Transfer of shares to employees 11.6 14.5 2.9 Balance at 31 December 2014 15.4 30.2 46.9 32.1 Employee Employee Merger share options share trust reserve reserve reserve Total $m $m $m $m Company Balance at 1 January 2013 35.4 0.8 15.6 51.8 Share based payments 19.1 19.1 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 17.7 17.7 Transfer of shares to employees 11.3 14.7 3.4 Balance at 31 December 2013 35.4 7.0 18.6 47.0 Share based payments 15.3 15.3 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 12.5 12.5 Transfer of shares to employees 11.6 14.5 2.9 Balance at 31 December 2014 35.4 10.7 16.6 41.3 Reclassification of reserves relates to the balance in employee share options reserve previously included in the merger reserve caption with effect from 9 June 2009, being the date of the reverse acquisition of Beazley plc.
The employee share options reserve also included the IFRS 2 provision for plans that have vested subsequent to 9 June 2009 but were not cleared down upon vesting.
This adjustment and foreign exchange differences on transfers have also been reflected.
The merger reserve has arisen as a result of historic Beazley group restructuring.
The most significant item is the reverse acquisition that occurred in 2009.
The employee share option reserve is held in accordance with IFRS 2 share-based payment.
For more information refer to note 23.2.
More information on the employee share trust reserve is included in note 23. www.
com 160 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Equity compensation plans 23.1 Employee share trust 2014 2013 Number m $m Number m $m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 18.7 48.9 20.0 50.2 Additions 3.1 12.5 5.0 17.7 Transfer of shares to employees 5.7 14.5 6.3 14.7 Reclassification of reserves 4.3 Balance at 31 December 16.1 46.9 18.7 48.9 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan, retention plan and long-term incentive plan.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employee.
Under the retention plan, on the third to the sixth anniversary, and each year after that, 25.0% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employee.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
23.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long-term incentive plan LTIP, approved share option plan and SAYE plan that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
In accordance with these plans, options are exercisable at the market price of the shares at the date of the grant.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: No.
of options Contractual life Share option plan Grant date m Vesting conditions of options MSIP 04 04 2013 0.5 Three years service ROE 10 years MSIP 04 04 2013 0.5 Five years service ROE 10 years LTIP 11 02 2014 1.6 Five years service NAV 10 years 13 02 2013 2.1 minimum shareholding requirement 30 03 2012 2.6 14 02 2011 2.4 18 02 2010 2.6 LTIP 11 02 2014 1.6 Three years service NAV 10 years 13 02 2013 2.1 minimum shareholding requirement 30 03 2012 2.6 SAYE UK 09 05 2014 1.1 Three years service N A 10 04 2013 0.4 11 04 2012 0.7 11 04 2011 0.0 SAYE US 03 06 2014 0.1 Two years service N A 03 06 2013 0.1 Total share options outstanding 21.0 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are defined as: two years service an employee has to remain in employment until the second anniversary from the grant date: three years service an employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date: ROE return on equity, based on the average marine divisional pre-tax return on equity ROE over the performance period: NAV the NAV growth, after adjusting for the effect of dividends, is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year: and TSR comparator the groups TSR growth is compared with that of members of the comparator group over a three-year period starting with the year in which the award is made.
com 160 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 161 23 Equity compensation plans continued Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 83 to 108.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted average average exercise No.
of price pence options price pence options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 9.4 19.6 10.3 17.3 Forfeited during the year 143.0 0.1 27.3 0.7 Exercised during the year 13.2 2.9 16.6 2.8 Granted during the year 54.9 4.4 21.3 5.8 Outstanding at 31 December 17.9 21.0 9.4 19.6 Exercisable at 31 December 0.1 The share option programme allows group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in the employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2014 2013 $m $m Share options charge to employee share option reserve 15.3 19.1 Weighted average share price pence per option 182.8 155.3 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 17.9 9.4 Average expected life of options 4.7yrs 4.8yrs Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 3.8% 4.0% Average risk-free interest rate 3.3% 3.4% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2014 2013 $m $m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 984.7 1,023.0 Claims incurred but not reported 2,540.2 2,597.5 Gross claims liabilities 3,524.9 3,620.5 Unearned premiums 1,022.5 956.8 Total insurance liabilities, gross 4,547.4 4,577.3 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 195.0 253.7 Claims incurred but not reported 665.7 724.7 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 860.7 978.4 Unearned premiums 192.5 199.8 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 1,053.2 1,178.2 www.
com 162 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 2014 2013 $m $m Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 789.7 769.3 Claims incurred but not reported 1,874.5 1,872.8 Net claims liabilities 2,664.2 2,642.1 Unearned premiums 830.0 757.0 Total insurance liabilities, net 3,494.2 3,399.1 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
com 162 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 163 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 24.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and sensitivity analysis a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserves: the actuarial team uses several actuarial and statistical methods to estimate the ultimate premium and claims costs, with the most appropriate methods selected depending on the nature of each class of business: and the underwriting teams concurrently review the development of the incurred loss ratio over time, work with our claims managers to set reserve estimates for identified claims and utilise their detailed understanding of both risks underwritten and the nature of the claims to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost, which is compared to the actuarially established figures.
A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, are not lower than the actuarially established figure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable or within a reasonable range.
The group has a consistent reserving philosophy with initial reserves being set to include risk margins which may be released over time as uncertainty reduces.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims observed to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection e. g. recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustments can be made to mitigate any subsequent over under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where significant large losses impact an underwriting year e. g. the events of 11 September 2001, the hurricanes in 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2012, or the earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, the development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss total is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
com 164 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may or may not apply in the future: for example, to reflect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims inflation, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combinations.
Life, accident & health Premium rate change Classes Marine Claims inflation Political risks & contingency Mix of business Property Reporting patterns Underwriting years Reinsurance Settlement patterns Specialty lines Judicial decisions Professional judgement 1993 1994... 2013 2014 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds capital to absorb volatility.
d Sensitivity analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notifications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notified.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identified a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our individual capital assessment ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and the relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the six segments life, accident & health, marine, political risks & contingency, property, reinsurance and specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of the claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the statement of financial position.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating past redundancies or deficiencies on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2014 is adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
com 168 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 169 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Analysis of movements in loss development tables We have updated our loss development tables to show the ultimate loss ratios as at 31 December 2014 for each underwriting year.
Life, accident & health Ultimate net loss ratio reductions were observed on the 2012 and prior underwriting years, due to favourable claims developments on PA Reinsurance.
The 2013 underwriting year deteriorated due to worse than expected experience on Life Direct and PA Direct.
Marine The 2011, 2012 and 2013 underwriting years have seen reductions in net ultimate loss ratios due to benign claims experience.
A strengthening was seen on the 2009 underwriting year due to a large claim on Energy PD.
Political risks & contingency Positive development was observed across the majority of years, with the exception of 2007, which saw a slight deterioration on trade credit-related claims.
Improvements were seen on the political book, in particular on 2009 due to a material reduction in claims exposure.
Property There have been positive developments across all underwriting years, driven by reserve releases on previous natural catastrophes, favourable attritional experience and benign natural catastrophe experience on the 2013 underwriting year.
Reinsurance There were releases across all years with the exception of 2010.
This was caused by an increase in reserves held in respect of the New Zealand earthquakes, due to a revision of market estimates.
Reductions were made to reserves held for previous natural catastrophes.
Margin was released from the 2012 and 2013 underwriting years following benign catastrophe experience.
Specialty lines Releases from the 2003 to 2006 underwriting years continued following increased certainty on remaining claims.
The 2012 and 2013 underwriting years also saw releases as a result of run off of risk on the cyber business.
The recession exposed years remain stable.
com 170 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Claim releases The table below analyses our net claims between current year claims and adjustments to prior year net claims reserves.
These have been broken down by department and period.
Beazleys reserving policy is to maintain catastrophe reserve margins either until the end of the exposure period or until catastrophe events occur.
Therefore margins have been released from prior year reserves where risks have expired during 2014.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2013 and prior underwriting years has improved by $158.1m during 2014 2013: $218.0m.
This movement arose from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions resulting from the observed experience and anticipating any changes as a result of the new business written.
The movements shown on 2011 and earlier are absolute claim movements and are not impacted by any current year movements in premium on those underwriting years.
com 171 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 171 25 Borrowings The carrying amount and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows: 2014 2013 Group $m $m Carrying value Subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 122.5 132.1 Retail bond 115.8 123.0 256.3 273.1 Fair value Subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 127.1 135.9 Retail bond 124.7 128.9 269.8 282.8 2014 2013 Company $m $m Carrying value Retail bond 115.8 123.0 Fair value Retail bond 124.7 128.9 The fair value of the tier 2 subordinated debt and retail bond is based on quoted market prices.
For the subordinated debt that is not quoted, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of US $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. JPMorgan.
The loan is unsecured and interest is payable at the USD London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
In October 2006, the group issued 150m of unsecured fixed floating rate subordinated notes that are due in October 2026 with a first call at the groups option in October 2016.
Interest of 7.25% per annum is paid annually in arrears for the period up to October 2016.
From October 2016, the notes will bear annual interest at the rate of 3.28% above LIBOR.
In February 2013 we bought back an additional nominal amount of 26.2m, bringing the total debt buyback since 2012 to 73.5m.
Refer to note 8 for further detail on the debt buyback.
No buybacks were enacted in 2014.
In September 2012, the group issued 75m of sterling denominated 5.375% notes due 2019.
Interest at a fixed rate of 5.375% is payable in March and September each year.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a syndicated short term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group plc.
In June 2013 we renewed our syndicated short term banking facility led by Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The facility provides potential borrowings up to $225m.
The agreement is based on a commitment fee of 0.6% per annum and any amounts drawn are charged at a margin of 1.75% per annum.
The cash element of the facility will last for three years, expiring on 31 December 2016, whilst letters of credit issued under the facility can be used to provide support for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 underwriting years.
The facility is currently unutilised.
com 172 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Other payables 2014 2013 Group $m $m Reinsurance premiums payable 115.2 191.3 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 111.9 89.4 Other payables 2.0 4.5 Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 5.3 7.1 Due to syndicate 6107 21.1 15.5 255.5 307.8 2014 2013 Company $m $m Other payables 2.0 1.8 2.0 1.8 All other payables are payable within one year of the reporting date other than deferred consideration which is payable after one year.
The carrying value approximates fair values.
27 Retirement benefit obligations 2014 2013 $m $m Present value of funded obligations 43.6 39.9 Fair value of plan assets 41.0 37.5 Retirement benefit liability in the statement of financial position 2.6 2.4 Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss Interest cost 1.7 1.3 Expected return on plan assets 1.7 1.3 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a defined benefit pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme.
The scheme provides the following benefits: an annual pension payable to the member from his or her normal pension age 60th birthday of generally 1 60th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service up to 31 March 2006: a spouses pension of 2 3rds of the members pension payable on the members death after retirement: a lump sum of four times current pensionable salary for death in service at the date of death: and a pension of 2 3rds of the members prospective pension at the date of death, payable to the spouse until their death.
This pension is related to salary at the date of death.
The scheme is administered by a trust that is legally separated from the group.
The trustees consist of both employee and employer representatives and an independent chair, all of whom are governed by the scheme rules.
The scheme exposes the group to additional actuarial, interest rate and market risk.
Contributions to the scheme are determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method as set out in the scheme rules and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2014.
The group expects to pay $1.6m in contributions to the scheme in 2015. www.
com 172 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 173 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued 2014 2013 $m $m Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 39.9 33.1 Interest cost 1.7 1.3 Actuarial losses 5.2 4.9 Benefits paid 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange loss 2.8 0.9 Balance at 31 December 43.6 39.9 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 37.5 32.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.7 1.3 Actuarial gains 3.2 1.8 Employer contributions 1.7 1.6 Benefits paid 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange gain 2.7 0.7 Balance at 31 December 41.0 37.5 Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 20.3 20.2 Bonds 16.4 14.3 Cash 4.3 3.0 Total 41.0 37.5 The actual gain on plan assets was $4.9m 2013: $3.1m.
2014 2013 $m $m Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 3.4% 4.4% Inflation rate 3.0% 3.4% Expected return on plan assets 3.4% 4.4% Future salary increases 3.0% 6.2% Future pensions increases 2.6% 2.9% Life expectancy for members aged 60 at 31 December 90 years 90 years Life expectancy for members aged 46 at 31 December 92 years 92 years At 31 December 2014, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 12.4 years 2013: 12.8 years.
com 174 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued Sensitivity analyses Changes in the relevant actuarial assumptions would result in a change in the value of the funded obligation as shown below: Increase Decrease 31 December 2014 $m $m Discount rate 0.5% increase 5.9 Inflation rate 0.3% decrease 3.1 Future salary changes 0.5% decrease 0.2 Life expectancy 1 year increase 1.1 Increase Decrease 31 December 2013 $m $m Discount rate 0.5% decrease 5.4 Inflation rate 0.3% decrease 2.8 Future salary changes 0.5% decrease 0.2 Life expectancy 1 year increase 0.9 28 Deferred tax 2014 2013 $m $m Deferred tax asset 9.0 8.7 Deferred tax liability 8.5 65.0 0.5 56.3 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 56.3 73.0 Income tax credit 57.0 15.6 Amounts recorded through equity 0.3 0.7 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.5 0.4 Balance at 31 December 0.5 56.3 Balance Recognised Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 14 in income in equity differences 31 Dec 14 $m $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 0.3 Intangible assets 1.4 0.1 1.3 Underwriting profits 69.1 55.0 14.1 Tax losses 8.7 0.2 8.9 Other 2.2 2.1 0.3 0.5 4.1 Net deferred income tax account 56.3 57.0 0.3 0.5 0.5 Balance Recognised Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 13 in income in equity differences 31 Dec 13 $m $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.4 0.1 0.5 Intangible assets 0.2 1.2 1.4 Underwriting profits 204.1 135.0 69.1 Tax losses 127.1 118.4 8.7 Other 3.4 2.3 0.7 0.4 2.2 Net deferred income tax account 73.0 15.6 0.7 0.4 56.3 www.
com 174 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 175 28 Deferred tax continued The group has tax adjusted losses carried forward giving rise to a deferred tax asset of $1.5m, measured at the UK corporation tax rate from 1 April 2015 of 20%.
The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the group balance sheet in the current year as losses are not expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future based on the current taxable profit estimates and forecasts of the underlying entity in question.
29 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m No later than one year 8.5 8.2 Later than one year and no later than five years 32.6 30.7 Later than five years 14.5 18.6 55.6 57.5 30 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicates 623 and 6107, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
30.1 Syndicates 623 and 6107 The group received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicates 623 and 6107, which are managed by the group.
In addition, the group ceded portions or all of a group of insurance policies to syndicate 6107.
The participants on 623 6107 are solely third party capital.
Details of transactions entered into and the balances with these syndicates are as follows: 2014 2013 $m $m Written premium ceded to syndicates 23.7 23.8 Other income received from syndicates 25.6 30.8 Services provided 41.0 33.3 Balances due: Due from syndicate 623 7.3 17.0 Due to syndicate 6107 21.1 15.5 30.2 Key management compensation 2014 2013 $m $m Salaries and other short term benefits 21.0 19.7 Post-employment benefits 0.9 0.8 Share-based remuneration 13.5 9.4 35.4 29.9 Key management include executive and non-executive directors and other senior management.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 83 to 108. www.
com 176 Beazley Annual report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Related party transactions continued 30.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2014, the group had a balance payable to an associate Falcon Money Management Limited of $0.9m 2013: payable $0.1m and purchased services from the associate of $9.4m 2013: $8.8m throughout the year.
All transactions with the associate and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
During the year Beazley invested $1.6m in Capson Corp Inc and $1.6m in Equinox Global Limited to support this associates ongoing operations following a significant loss incurred.
31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley plc, a Jersey incorporated Irish domiciled company, is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The board of Beazley plc is considering re-domiciling the company to the United Kingdom and expects to make a decision in this regard in the coming months.
The potential re-domiciliation of the company would have no material impact to the operating activities or the financial position of the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries in the group: Beazley plc direct Country of Ownership Functional investment in incorporation interest Nature of business currency subsidiary $m Beazley Group Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents GBP Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company USD Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company GBP Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services GBP Beazley Underwriting Services Limited England 100% Insurance services GBP Beazley DAS Limited England 100% Dividend access scheme GBP Beazley Corporate Member No.
2 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
3 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
4 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
5 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
6 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Re Limited Ireland 100% Reinsurance of Lloyds business USD 747.2 Beazley Underwriting Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Australian Income Protection Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company USD Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership USD Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwriting admitted lines USD First State Management Group, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services HKD Beazley Middle East Limited Dubai 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds SGD Swift No.
1 Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Swift No.
2 Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD 747.2 Beazley plc holds direct investment in Beazley Group Limited of $2.
com 176 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 177 32 Contingencies 32.1 Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are subject to a deed of charge in favour of Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments.
Underwriting Underwriting Underwriting year year year 2015 2014 2013 m m m Debt securities and other fixed income securities 513.9 563.0 558.0 33 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into US dollars, being the groups presentational currency: 2014 2013 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot Pound sterling 0.61 0.64 0.64 0.60 Canadian dollar 1.10 1.16 1.03 1.06 Euro 0.75 0.83 0.76 0.72 34 Subsequent events There are no events that are material to the operations of the group that have occurred since the reporting date.
com 178 Beazley Annual report 2014 Glossary Aggregates aggregations Combined ratio Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance from underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts causes of loss.
and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims Aggregate excess of loss ratio.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured of foreign exchange.
for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified aggregate amount.
Coverholder managing general agent A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised A. M. Best by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms for assessing the financial strength of insurance related and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating Deferred acquisition costs DAC performance and business profile.
Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related Binding authority costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a of the contracts.
coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of insurance for the account of the members Earnings per share EPS basic diluted of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the and conditions.
consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
Capacity For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for certain dilutive by a syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance potential ordinary shares such as share options granted coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the to employees.
Economic Capital Requirement ECR Capital growth assets The capital required by a syndicates members to support These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target their underwriting.
Calculated as the uSCR uplifted by 35% an increase in value over the long term.
They will typically to ensure capital is in place to support Lloyds ratings and have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
Currently these are the hedge funds, equity linked funds and illiquid credit assets.
Excess per risk reinsurance A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a Catastrophe reinsurance specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the to each risk involved in each loss.
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic Expense ratio event or series of events.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses Claims to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding Demand by an insured for indemnity under an the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
Facultative reinsurance Claims ratio A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding a reinsurance treaty.
the impact of foreign exchange.
Gross premiums written Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted by intermediaries.
com 178 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 179 Hard market Private enterprise An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, The private enterprise team offers specialised professional with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
and general liability coverage supported by a high service proposition, focusing on meeting the needs of small businesses Horizontal limits with assets up to $35million and up to 500 employees.
Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
Provision for outstanding claims Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the Incurred but not reported IBNR These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been fully settled.
insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
Rate International Accounting Standards Board IASB The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured An independent accounting body responsible for or limit of indemnity.
Reinsurance special purpose syndicate International Accounting Standards IAS International A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a Financial Reporting Standards IFRS reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the standards adopted by the IASB have been Reinsurance to close RITC referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the IFRS.
Until existing standards are renamed, they continue responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that to be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
year of account and any year of account closed into that year, plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of Lead underwriter account, into an open year of account in return for a premium.
The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is Retention limits subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
Retrocessional reinsurance Line The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is to lay off risk.
accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percentage terms, calculated by dividing the Managing agent consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of a syndicate.
Risk This term may variously refer to: Managing general agent MGA a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf or loss: of an insurer.
b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or c an insured peril.
Medium tail A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years Short tail after the period of insurance has expired.
A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Net assets per share Property insurance is an example of short tail business.
Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets total equity by the number of shares issued.
Sidecar special purpose syndicate Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional Net premiums written capacity to a specific insurance company.
It operates by Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, outward reinsurance premiums written.
These companies have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
com 18 180 0 B Be ea az zle ley y A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Glossary continued Soft market An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Solvency Capital Requirement on an ultimate basis uSCR The capital requirement under Solvency II calculated by Beazleys internal model which captures the risk in respect of the planned underwriting for the prospective year of account in full covering ultimate adverse development and all exposures.
Surplus lines insurer An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Total shareholder return TSR The increase in the share price plus the value of any first and second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Treaty reinsurance A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
Unearned premiums reserve The portion of premium income in the business year that is attributable to periods after the reporting date in the underwriting provisions.
com 18 180 0 B Be ea az zle ley y A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: Instinctif Partners www.
com Beazley online annual report and accounts 2014 www.
com 2014 Beazley plc 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demesne Santry Dublin 9 | Ireland Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 Registered number: 102680 www.
