51 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 51 Operational update Our strength and depth of operations experience is a competitive advantage.
Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley has seen significant premium growth over the last ten years, and we have developed a diversified underwriting portfolio that distributes globally, through 25 offices.
To support this growth we have developed a scalable and efficient operating platform that through focused investment has become an important competitive advantage.
Differentiators have been our ability to deliver products more quickly to market whilst maintaining a high quality, responsive service to our brokers.
Much of this can be attributed to the high level of experience that we have built within our global operations team.
When providing support services or delivering large projects, we know what works and what does not.
The operations team and the underwriting teams have developed strong working relationships over the years, and collectively we have developed considerable expertise in bringing new products and distribution channels to fruition.
We have been able to deliver excellent support for our business through the way we maintain consistency in operational standards throughout the group.
This ranges from the Beazley look and feel across all our offices, to the rigour with which our systems capture accurate data to provide insightful reporting to support business decisions.
In order to achieve this, we continue to focus on our operations strategy.
This spans five areas of focus: Supporting growth initiatives Beazley has four strategic growth initiatives at Lloyds, in the US, in Europe, and in Asia Pacific.
In all of these platforms we have continued to build our infrastructure so that we can bring attractive new products to market as efficiently as possible.
Contingency WeatherGuard and Clinical Trials Biosecure are examples of two such new types of insurance products that we launched in 2014.
We are also exploring new ways to deliver our specialist products to market with the launch of the MyBeazley.
com electronic trading platform to service the SME market in the UK and France.
We also implemented a new online quotation tool to further distribute our Beazley Breach Response product in the US market.
Supporting business growth relies on effective processes and systems, but it is also important that we have a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working and thought leadership.
Our offices are open plan, bright and airy with a style and consistency that supports our global brand.
We strive to get the best quality working space at the best lease and facility cost.
In 2014, we opened new offices in Dubai and Dallas, further improving market access for our underwriters geographically.
We also invested further in our processing and support centre based in Connecticut, US which is a location that benefits from good access to local insurance operations talent.
Ensuring sustained profitability Beazley is organised to a large degree around global underwriting and claims teams.
This model has served us well in ensuring that products that succeed in one market can be swiftly introduced in others.
However it is important that this does not result in back office systems and support resources becoming duplicative or for the administration of insurance transactions to impede the business in any way.
In pursuit of greater efficiency and consistency of operational service we have been centralising operations support or outsourcing where this brings further value.
We want to make sure that operations and processing are performed by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
This year we significantly increased the amount of process automation in our back office particularly for our higher volume products in the US an area where we are seeing healthy business growth.
Our investment in process automation is key to supporting increased transaction volumes and revenue, without having to scale up our expense base unduly.
com 52 Beazley Annual report 2014 Operational update continued Operating within our agreed risk appetite Effective risk management requires clear visibility of the level of operational risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting an effective control environment is consistency of ownership for operations support and the provision of management information.
As we continue to make our operational support more efficient, we have defined clear ownership for processes, establishing clear accountability for process execution and planning.
This simplifies operational control reporting and strengthens our ability to provide a coordinated, rapid response to supporting business growth opportunities.
With each year, we transact more business electronically in our markets.
This brings greater efficiency but also places more emphasis on the need to have a scalable and resilient technology infrastructure.
In 2014, we upgraded our global IT network infrastructure to ensure continued high performance as electronic transactions increase.
Enabling product and service innovation Our strategy focuses on two types of innovation.
Firstly, there is insurance product innovation, which requires an operational platform that facilitates an efficient product pipeline from idea development through to product launch.
Secondly, there is the development of new or enhanced tools and support services that enable our employees to perform optimally in their roles.
A continuing focus for us has been strengthening our ability to take new product ideas more quickly from the drawing board to the underwriting stamp.
We have built dedicated teams in both London and the US to coordinate the product innovation process, and then to bring all the operational components together for a successful market launch.
In 2014, we completed the upgrade of our IT infrastructure to thin client technology for all our offices which allows us to more efficiently manage our software centrally and scale our global IT infrastructure.
It also means that our employees can access our business applications and management information from mobile and tablet devices proving especially useful to our underwriters and claims managers whilst out in the field.
Beazley Intelligence, our strategic data warehouse solution, grows in value each year.
We can now provide reports and detailed analysis on business written across all our platforms globally.
In combination with data gathered through our global claims system and our customer relationship management system, we are able to gain valuable insight into trends within our business and have the data at hand to support business decisions.
Managing for performance Growing across different markets entails greater operational complexity and a requirement for additional skills in our staff.
We do not want to be limited to specific geographic pools of skilled individuals, such as project managers, IT specialists and business analysts.
Some locations such as London also have higher unit costs both to hire and to accommodate employees.
With this in mind, we continue to improve our sourcing channels to tap into different skilled resource pools.
Where possible, if we can deliver a service competently from a remote location, we will aim to do so better leveraging our more operationally oriented locations, notably Connecticut and Dublin.
As with all Beazley talent we recognise the importance of developing attractive career paths.
We want to equip our operations team with the right skills for the job.
We routinely review our talent for potential skills gaps and then provide the most relevant training to ensure a high standard of service provision.
Looking ahead We place great importance on maintaining consistency in our approach to delivering high quality service and continually improving operational efficiency.
The above five areas are core to our operational strategy, and we have a highly experienced operations team to deliver them creating competitive advantage through operational service provision and in our ability to react quickly and efficiently to new business opportunities.
