BREVAN HOWARD MASTER FUND LIMITED 32 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31 December 2014 9.
Taxes continued and its Subsidiaries are only subject to market risk to the extent of the premium paid.
ASC 740, Income Taxes, established financial accounting and disclosure requirements for recognition and measurement of tax The Master Fund and its Subsidiaries purchase both exchangepositions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return.
The traded and OTC options.
For exchange-traded option contracts, Manager has reviewed the Master Funds tax positions for all open the stock exchange acts as the counterparty to specific tax years and has concluded that no provision for income tax is transactions and therefore bears the risk of delivery to and from required in the Master Funds Consolidated Financial Statements.
OTC option contracts are not guaranteed by any regulated stock exchange.
The Master Fund is subject to potential examination by certain taxing authorities in various jurisdictions.
The tax liability is also The Master Fund and its Subsidiaries invest in fixed income subject to ongoing interpretation of laws by taxing authorities.
The securities and bank loans.
Until such investments are sold or tax years under potential examination vary by jurisdiction.
mature, the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk relating to whether the issuer will meet its obligation as 10.
Financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk or it comes due.
concentration of credit risk Entering into credit default swap agreements and contracts for Derivative financial instruments may result in off-balance sheet difference exposes the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries to market market, credit and liquidity risk.
Market risk is the possibility that risks equivalent to actually holding securities of the notional future changes in market price may make a financial instrument value but typically involve little capital commitment relative to the less valuable or more onerous.
If the markets should move against exposure achieved.
The gains or losses of the Master Fund and one or more positions that the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries its Subsidiaries may therefore be significantly greater than this holds, the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries could incur losses initial commitment.
greater than the unrealised amounts recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
The principal credit risk is that In connection with investments sold under agreements to the counterparty to the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries will default repurchase, it is the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries policy that and fail to fulfill the terms of the agreement.
their prime brokers take possession of the underlying collateral securities.
If the seller defaults and the fair value of the collateral Investments sold short have market risk to the extent that the declines, realisation of the collateral by the Master Fund and its Master Fund and its Subsidiaries, in satisfying its obligation, may Subsidiaries may be delayed or insufficient.
have to purchase securities to cover a short position at a higher value than that recorded on the Consolidated Statement of Assets In accordance with ASC 815, the Master Fund and its and Liabilities.
Subsidiaries records its trading-related derivative activities on a fair value basis as described in Note 2.
Futures contracts expose the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries to credit, market and liquidity risks.
The Master Fund and its Assets and liabilities included in the table in Note 2 represent the Subsidiaries are exposed to market risk such that changes fair value of the Master Funds and its Subsidiaries holdings at in the market values of the securities or indices underlying a the year end.
These assets and liabilities are not representative of contract may exceed the amount recognised in the Consolidated the outstanding credit risk to the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries Statement of Assets and Liabilities.
Liquidity risk represents the due to the existence of master netting agreements.
possibility that the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries may not be able to rapidly adjust the size of its futures position in times of The gross fair value of the Master Funds and its Subsidiaries high volatility and financial stress at a reasonable price.
derivative instruments are shown in Note 2.
Forward contracts expose the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries Fair values represent the price that would be received to sell to market and liquidity risks.
The Master Fund and its Subsidiaries an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction are exposed to market risk to the extent that adverse changes between market participants at the measurement date i. e. the occur in the value of the underlying asset.
Liquidity risk represents exit price.
the possibility that the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries may not be able to rapidly adjust the size of its forwards positions in times The Master Fund and its Subsidiaries maintain trading relationships of high volatility and financial stress at a reasonable price.
with counterparties that include domestic and foreign brokers, dealers and financial institutions: these relationships could result in As a purchaser of an option contract, the Master Fund and its the concentration of the credit risk if counterparties fail to fulfill their Subsidiaries are subject to credit risk since the counterparty obligations or the value of any collateral becomes inadequate.
is obligated to make payments under the terms of the option contract if the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries exercise the option.
As a purchaser of an option contract, the Master Fund
