BREVAN HOWARD MASTER FUND LIMITED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 29 3.
Fair value measurements continued The following table presents quantitative information about the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries Level 3 inputs: Fair Value US$000 Valuation Technique Unobservable Input Range Asset Backed Securities & Mortgage 118,291 Discounted Cashflow Constant default rate 1%-12% Backed Securities Conditional prepayment rate 7%-26% Loss severity 27%-96% Discount rate 1%-24% Deal loss 4%-7% Bond loss 0%-57% Spread to swaps 0%-5% Spread to similar instrument 5% -5% Private Placements 4,029 NAV less liquidity discount Liquidity discount 0%-40% Corporate Debt 28,633 Similar instrument Spread to similar instrument 0%-5% Derivatives 156,969 Counterparty valuation Broker quote Correlation factors N A The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of Level 3 asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities are constant default rates, conditional prepayment rates, loss severity, deal loss, bond loss, spread to swaps and discount rates.
Increases in any of the constant default rates, loss severity, deal loss, bond loss, spread to swaps or discount rates in isolation would result in a lower fair value for the asset, and vice versa.
Increases in conditional prepayment rates could result in a higher or lower fair value depending on the quality of the securities.
Where a spread to the yield on similar Level 1 or Level 2 instruments is applied, increases in the spread would result in a lower fair value and vice versa.
The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of Level 3 private placements is the liquidity discount.
The fair value of private placement positions is determined initially by reference to one or a combination of cost, net asset value of underlying assets, any permanent diminution in value and realisation events.
A liquidity discount may subsequently be applied to reflect the limited market for such assets.
An increase in the liquidity discount would result in a lower fair value for the asset.
Level 3 corporate debt is valued at a spread to the yield on similar Level 1 or Level 2 instruments.
Increases in the spread would result in a lower fair value and vice versa.
Level 3 derivatives are valued by reference to counterparty valuations or single broker quotes.
The unobservable input implicit in counterparty valuations is generally a correlation factor between two or more reference assets.
An increase in the correlation factor could result in a higher or lower fair value depending on the nature of the specific instrument.
Operational services fee The Manager has received from the Master Fund a fee of 1 12 of 0.50% per month of the NAV, prior to the deduction of management and performance fees, of the Master Fund for the year to 31 December 2014 the operational services fee as at the last valuation day in each month excluding for these purposes such part of the NAV of the Master Fund which is attributable to i any investments made in other investment funds managed by the Manager which also charge an operational services fee, or ii the Class Z ordinary shares in the Master Fund.
The operational services fee for the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to US$119,545,042.
The operational services fee payable at 31 December 2014 is US$65,772.
Management and performance fees The Manager receives a management fee of 1 12 of 2% or a pro rata proportion thereof per month of the NAV before deduction of that months management fee and before making any deduction for any accrued performance fee as at the last valuation day in each month, payable monthly in arrears on Class X shares and Class Y shares.
No management fees are payable in respect of Class A shares, Class B shares and Class Z shares.
The management fee payable at 31 December 2014 is US$42,008.
The Manager also receives a performance fee.
The performance fee is equal to the relevant percentage of the appreciation in the NAV per share of that class during that calculation period which is above the base NAV of that class.
The base NAV per share is the greater of the NAV per share of the relevant class at the time of issue of such share and the highest NAV per share achieved as at the end of any previous calculation period.
