BREVAN HOWARD MASTER FUND LIMITED 38 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31 December 2014 15.
Investment in affiliated funds The Master Fund has invested in a number of affiliated funds as set out in Note 5.
Equalisation Factor Where Shares are subscribed for at a time when the NAV per Share is greater than the Peak NAV per Share of the relevant Class, the investor will be required to pay an amount in excess of the then current NAV per Share of that Class equal to the Relevant Percentage of the difference between the then current NAV per Share of that Class before accrual for the Performance Fee and the Peak NAV per Share of that Class an Equalisation Credit.
At the date of subscription the Equalisation Credit will equal the Performance Fee per Share accrued with respect to the other Shares of the same Class in the Master Fund the Maximum Equalisation Credit.
The Equalisation Credit is payable to account for the fact that the NAV per Share of that Class has been reduced to reflect an accrued Performance Fee to be borne by existing Shareholders of the same Class and serves as a credit against Performance Fees that might otherwise be payable by the Master Fund but that should not, in equity, be charged against the Shareholder making the subscription because, as to such Shares, no favourable performance has yet occurred.
The Equalisation Credit ensures that all holders of Shares of the same Class have the same amount of capital at risk per Share.
The additional amount invested as the Equalisation Credit will be at risk in the Master Fund and will therefore appreciate or depreciate based on the performance of the relevant Class subsequent to the issue of the relevant Shares but will never exceed the Maximum Equalisation Credit.
In the event of a decline as at any Valuation Day in the NAV per Share of those Shares, the Equalisation Credit will also be reduced by an amount equal to the Relevant Percentage of the difference between the NAV per Share before accrual for the Performance Fee at the date of issue and as at that Valuation Day.
Any subsequent appreciation in the NAV per Share of the relevant Class will result in the recapture of any reduction in the Equalisation Credit but only to the extent of the previously reduced Equalisation Credit up to the Maximum Equalisation Credit.
Where shares are subscribed for at a time when the NAV per share is less than the Peak NAV per share of the relevant Class, the investor will be required to pay a Performance Fee with respect to any subsequent appreciation in the value of those shares.
With respect to any appreciation in the value of those shares from the NAV per share at the date of subscription up to the Peak NAV per share, the Performance Fee will be charged at the end of each Calculation Period by redeeming at par value which will be retained by the Master Fund such number of the investors shares of the relevant Class as have an aggregate NAV after accrual for any Performance Fee equal to the Relevant Percentage of any such appreciation a Performance Fee Redemption.
An amount equal to the aggregate NAV of the shares so redeemed will be paid to the Manager as a Performance Fee.
The Master Fund will not be required to pay to the investor the redemption proceeds of the relevant shares being the aggregate par value thereof.
Performance Fee Redemptions ensures that the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries maintain a uniform NAV per Share of each Class.
At the year end the equalisation factor accrued but not crystallised is US$Nil while the portion that crystallised during the year represented a write-back of US$6,651.
Subsequent Events For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries evaluated subsequent events through 19 March 2015.
No material events which would require to be disclosed or adjusted for in the Consolidated Financial Statements occurred during this period.
