BREVAN HOWARD MASTER FUND LIMITED 22 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 31 December 2014 1.
Organisation Topic 946 : Amendments to the scope, measurement and disclosure requirements ASU 2013-08.
They have therefore Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the Master Fund is an applied Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 946 exempted limited liability company which was incorporated under AICPA Investment Company Guide, fair value accounting, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands on 22 January 2003 in the preparation of the Master Funds consolidated financial and commenced trading on 1 April 2003.
The Master Fund did not provide financial support to registered under the Mutual Funds Law of the Cayman Islands on any related parties or investee entities during the current period.
Basis of consolidation The Master Fund seeks to generate consistent long-term The Master Fund has consolidated the following entities together appreciation through active leveraged trading and investment on a the Subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014: global basis.
The Master Funds investment strategy is comprised of global investment strategies and a number of long and short BHMF Investments II Limited, a company incorporated with strategies that may have directional risk.
limited liability on 7 May 2010 under the laws of the Cayman Islands: and Brevan Howard Capital Management LP the Manager, acting through its sole general partner, Brevan Howard Capital WCG Strategies Fund Limited, a company incorporated with Management Limited, is the Manager of the Master Fund.
The limited liability on 27 October 2008 under the laws of the Manager has registered as a Commodity Pool Operator with the Cayman Islands.
United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission with effect from 1 January 2013 in respect of the Master Fund.
The Master Fund owns 100% of BHMF Investments II Limited and 100% of WCG Strategies Fund Limited as at 31 December 2014.
The Manager has appointed each of: i Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP BHAM : ii Brevan Howard Investment The Consolidated Financial Statements include full consolidation of Products Limited BHIPL : iii Brevan Howard Hong Kong wholly owned subsidiaries and of majority owned subsidiaries, except Limited: iv Brevan Howard Israel Limited: v DW Partners, where the effect on the Master Funds financial position and results LP formerly DW Investment Management, LP : vi BH-DG of operations are immaterial.
Transactions between the Master Fund Systematic Trading LLP: and vii Brevan Howard US Investment and the Subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
Management, LP as Investment Managers of the Master Funds assets, in each case subject to risk oversight and treasury Security transactions and valuation management by BHIPL and or BHAM.
The Manager may in Security transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
future appoint additional Investment Managers provided that they are affiliates of the Manager or the Investment Managers.
Most positions of the Master Fund and its Subsidiaries are priced at the same time each day.
This provides reliable comparative The Manager and the Investment Managers and or their pricing of positions which are traded in different markets.
A members, Directors, employees, related entities and connected snapshot of all markets excluding Pacific Rim and Australasia is persons and their respective members, Directors and employees made at 4:00 p. m. GMT.
Pacific Rim and Australasia positions are may subscribe, directly or indirectly, for shares and or interests generally priced as at the local end-of-day mid market levels.
in the Master Funds feeder funds.
The feeder funds comprise of Brevan Howard Fund Limited, Brevan Howard L. P. and BH Macro Instruments with directly observable prices are priced to Limited together the Feeder Funds.
independent external data sources e. g. exchange traded futures, options, equities, government and corporate debt securities.
Fair The registered office of the Master Fund is at M&C Corporate value estimates for financial instruments for which no or limited Services Limited, P. O.
Box 309, George Town, Grand Cayman observable market data is available are based on judgments KY1-1104, Cayman Islands.
regarding current economic conditions, liquidity discounts, currency, credit, and interest rate risks, loss experience and 2.
Significant accounting policies other factors.
These estimates involve significant uncertainties and judgments and cannot be determined with precision.
As a Basis of preparation result, such calculated fair value estimates may not be realisable The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements are in a current sale or immediate settlement of the instrument.
In prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally addition, changes in the underlying assumptions used in the fair accepted in the United States of America US GAAP.
value measurement technique, including discount rates, liquidity The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in risks and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect US Dollars US$.
The Directors determined that the Master Fund satisfied the necessary criteria in accordance with Accounting Standard Update 2013-08 Financial Services Investment Companies
