Glossary NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE NAV CLOSED-END COMPANY This is the value of the Companys assets attributable to one An investment trust works along the same lines as a unit trust, ordinary share.
It is calculated by dividing shareholders funds in that it pools money from investors which is then managed by the total number of ordinary shares in issue excluding on a collective basis.
The main difference is that an investment treasury shares.
For example, as at 31 December 2014 equity trust is a company listed on the stock exchange and, in most shareholders funds were 624,674,000 and there were cases, trading takes place in shares which have already been 177,287,242 ordinary shares inissue excluding shares held in issued, rather than through the creation or redemption of units.
treasury : the NAV was therefore 352.35p per share.
As the number of shares which can be issued or cancelled at any one time is limited, and requires the approval of existing Shareholders funds are calculated by deducting the shareholders, investment trusts are known as closed-end Companys current and long term liabilities and any provision funds or companies.
This means that investment trusts are for liabilities and charges from its assets.
not subject to the same liquidity constraints as open ended funds and can therefore invest in less liquid investments.
DISCOUNT Investment trust shares frequently trade at a discount to NAV.
LEVERAGE This occurs when the share price based on the mid-market Leverage is fide ned in the AIFM Directive as any method by share price is less than the NAV and investors may therefore which the AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF it manages buy shares at less than the value attributable to them by whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage reference to the underlying assets.
The discount is the embedded in derivative positions or by any other means.
difference between the share price and the NAV, expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
For example, if the share price was Leverage is measured in terms of exposure and is expressed 320p and the NAV 350p, the discount would be 8.6%.
as a ratio of net asset value: Leverage ratio exposure: net asset value PREMIUM A premium occurs when the share price based on the The Directive sets out two methodologies for calculating mid-market share price is more than the NAV and investors exposure.
These are the Gross Method and the Commitment would therefore be paying more than the value attributable to Method.
The process for calculating exposure under each the shares by reference to the underlying assets.
For example, methodology is largely the same, except that, where certain if the share price was 355p and the NAV 350p, the premium conditions are met, the Commitment Method enables would be 1.4%.
instruments to be netted off to re ect netting or hedging arrangements and the entitys exposure is effectively reduced.
Discounts and premiums are mainly the consequence of supply and demand for the shares on the stock market.
GEARING The Company may from time to time utilise gearing.
Gearing works by magnifying the Companys performance.
If a company gears up and then markets rise and the returns on the investments outstrip the costs of borrowing, the overall returns to investors will be even greater.
But if markets fall andthe performance of the assets in the portfolio is poor, thenlosses suffered by the investor will also be magni ed.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [79] Warning to Shareholders SHARE FRAUD WARNING Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an in ated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
While high pro ts are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA formerly the Financial Services Authority FSA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the FCA Register via fca.
uk to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FCA Register to contact the rm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the FCAs website list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk consumers scams, where you can nd out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 [80] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC BlackRock woRld mining TRusT plc annual RepoRT and Financial sTaTemenTs 31 DECEMBER 2014 BLACKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 blackrock.
co. uk brwm 003170a-CEF Jan15 003170a-CEF World Mining Trust Covers A4 Final.
