Additional information Shareholder information FINANCIAL CALENDAR DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT SCHEME DRIP The timing of the announcement and publication of the Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Companys results may normally be expected in the months purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend shown below: reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure website investorcentre.
Shareholders who February March have already opted to have their dividends reinvested do not Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
The last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 16 April 2015.
March Annual report and financial statements published.
SHARE PRICE The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted April May daily in The Financial Times and the Times under Investment Annual General Meeting.
Companies and in The Daily Telegraph under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock May website at blackrock.
ISIN SEDOL NUMBERS August The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Half yearly gures and interim dividend announced and half Companys shares are: yearly financial reportpublished.
Ordinary shares September ISIN GB0005774855 Interim dividend paid.
L DIVIDEND 2014 Bloomberg Code BRWM: LN The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended Ticker BRWM 31December 2014 is 14.00p per share.
Ex-dividend date shares transferred SHARE DEALING without the dividend 26 March 2015 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or Record date last date for registering sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through a transfers to receive the dividend 27 March 2015 stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 16 April 2015 Dividend payment date 8 May 2015 For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet and telephone share dealing services.
To access the internet share PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS dealing, log on to computershare.
The Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named telephone share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084. shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be To use these services, you will need your shareholder reference paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP number, which is detailed on your share certi cate.
Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom Internet Protocol.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys Internet dealing The fee for this service is 1% of the value of registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, through their each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30. secure website investorcentre.
co. uk, or by telephone on Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
0870707 1187, or by completing the Mandate Instructions section on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the sendingthis to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax value of the transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered payable on purchases.
address, unless other instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [69] Additional information Shareholder information continued CREST NOMINEE CODE The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the system for uncerti cated securities trading.
Company undertakes: Private investors can continue to retain their share certi cates X to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are shareholder communications, so long as an indication of able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did quantities has been provided in advance: prior to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing charges.
X to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: and ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS We encourage you to play your part in reducing our impact on X that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings the environment and elect to be noti ed by email when your Plan and NISA are automatically sent shareholder shareholder communications become available online.
This communications, including details of general meetings, means you will receive timely, cost-effective and greener together with a Form of Direction to facilitate voting and to onlineannual reports, half yearly financial reports and other seek authority to attend.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Shareholders who opt for this service will receive an email from authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the general meetings.
BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed and downloaded.
Please submit your email address by visiting investorcentre.
You will require your shareholder PUBLICATION OF NET ASSET VALUE PORTFOLIO reference number which you will nd on your share certi cate ANALYSIS or tax voucher.
The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments You will continue to receive a printed copy of these reports if and performance being published monthly.
Alternatively, if you have not submitted your email address nor have elected to receive The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released printed reports, we will write and let you know where you can through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News view these reports online.
Serviceand are available on the website at blackrock.
co. uk brwm and through the Reuters News Service ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically ICVterminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly via Computershares internet site at eproxyappointment.
using their shareholder reference number, control number and a unique identi cation PIN which will be provided with voting ONLINE ACCESS instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Other details about the Company are also available on the website at blackrock.
The financial statements CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or and other literature are published on the website.
Visitors to give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy the website need to be aware that legislation in the United appointment service may do so by using the procedures Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in financial statements may differ from legislation in thenotes on the Form of Proxy and the Notice of Annual theirjurisdiction.
Shareholders can also manage their shareholding online by DURATION OF THE COMPANY using Investor Centre, Computershares secure website at Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General investorcentre.
Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company for a further twelve months.
[70] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC To access Computershares website you will need your SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES shareholder reference number which can be found on paper or The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services electronic communications you have previously received from PLC.
Certain details relating to your holding can be checked Computershare.
Listed below are the most frequently used through the Computershare Investor Centre website.
As a features of the website.
security check, speci c information needs to be input accurately to gain access to an individuals account.
This X Holding enquiry view balances, values, history, payments includes your shareholder reference number, available from and reinvestments.
your share certi cate, tax voucher or other electronic communications you have previously received from X Payments enquiry view your dividends and other Computershare.
The address of the Computershare website is payment types.
Alternatively, please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
X Address change change your registered address.
Changes of name or address must be noti ed in writing either X Bank details update choose to receive your dividend through Computershares website, or to the registrar at: payment directly into your bank account instead of by cheque.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions X e-Comms sign-up choose to receive email noti cation Bridgwater Road when your shareholder communications become available Bristol BS99 6ZZ instead of paper communications.
GENERAL ENQUIRIES X Outstanding payments reissue payments using the Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: online replacement service.
The Secretary X Downloadable forms including dividend mandates, BlackRock World Mining Trust plc stocktransfer, dividend reinvestment and change of 12 Throgmorton Avenue address forms.
London EC2N 2DL Telephone: 020 7743 3000 SAVINGS PLAN The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trust Enquiries about the Savings Plan or NISA should be directed to: Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free on PO Box 9036 0800 44 55 22.
Chelmsford CM99 2XD Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 STOCKS AND SHARES NEW INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS NISA NISAs are a tax-ef cient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust Stocks and Shares NISA.
Inthe2014 2015 tax year, investors have an annual NISA allowance of 15,000.
In the 2015 2016 tax year, the allowance will increase to 15,240.
Details are available from BlackRock bycalling free on 0800 44 55 22.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [71]
