Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2014 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued h Segment information For management purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determines that this operating segment is the investment in three share classes of a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
i Shares Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Ordinary shares have been classified as liabilities in accordance with IAS 32 because of the provisions contained in the Company's Articles of Association as described in Note 10.
The Directors have been advised that this treatment does not result in the Shares being treated as a liability for the purpose of applying the solvency test set out in Section 527 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
The Shares are initially recognised on the date of issue at the net of issue proceeds and share issue costs.
The carrying value of the shares is subsequently re-measured as equal and opposite to the other net assets of the Company.
j Prior period re-statement The Company recognised any gain on the purchase of its own shares directly in reserves, as the total discount to NAV on purchase of own shares was considered immaterial.
The Directors now consider this gain to be worthy of highlighting to Shareholders because of its impact on the growth in NAV per share, although in absolute amount it remains immaterial, and so going forward the Company will recognise any gain on the purchase of its own shares within the Statement of Comprehensive Income, as 'Net gain on purchase of own Shares' and the Treasury shares will then be held at their NAV at the date of purchase, see Note 12.
The prior period figures have also been restated to reflect this change in treatment.
The only impact on the prior year Financial Statements is to show the net gain on purchase of own shares in the Sterling class of 2,288,524 and $22,472 in the USD class, a total gain of 2,302,897.
In the Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Shareholders the cost of on-market purchases of ordinary shares changes by the same value.
The EPS for Sterling Class increased by 0.52 to 3.44 per Share and the EPS for the Dollar class increased by $0.03 to $0.99.
The NAV per share has not been affected.
As there is no impact on the Statement of Financial Position, an additional comparative position for 1 January 2013 has not been shown.
2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are descibed on page 50 and in Note 1, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting esimtates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and futue periods if the revision affects both current and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Company's accounting policies The following, and on page 51, are the critical judgements and estimates that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Company's accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements.
