Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2014 16 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES The following Standards or Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation - Amendments relating to the offsetting of assets and liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, amendments for novations of derivatives effective for annual periods 1 January 2014.
The following Standards or Interpretations that are expected to be applicable to the Company have been issued but not yet adopted.
Other Standards or Interpretations issued by the IASB or IFRIC are not expected to be applicable to the Company.
The Board have reviewed the impact of the standards below on the Company and they do not expect there to be any changes to the measurement of items in the Financial Statements but recognise additional disclosure may be required.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Deferral of mandatory effective date of IFRS 9 and amendments relating to additional hedge accounting disclosures and consequential amendments.
Aplies only when IFRS 9 is adopted, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Amendments resulting from September 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments - Classification and measurement of financial assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments - Accounting for financial liabilities and derecognition, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement - Amendments from Annual improvements cycle effective for annual periods.
beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements - Amendments from the disclosure intiative effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
17 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS There have been no subsequent events other than those disclosed elsewhere in this report.
