Report of the Directors Regulatory risk.
The Company is required to comply with the listing rules and the disclosure and transparency rules of the UK Listing Authority and the requirements imposed by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Any failure to comply could lead to criminal or civil proceedings.
Although responsibility ultimately lies with the Board the Secretary and Corporate Brokers also monitor compliance with regulatory requirements.
AUDITOR EY have been the Companys auditor since its incorporation and the lead audit partner is currently Chris Matthews.
EY have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the Companys forthcoming General Meeting.
Further to a review conducted by the Board of the continued need for German taxation information, in light of the closure of the Euro class, this information is no longer being provided from 13 March 2015.
This engagement did not require any consultation or advice to be provided by the Auditor.
No other nonaudit services were provided by the Auditor.
GOING CONCERN The performance of the investments held by the Company over the reporting year is set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the outlook for the future is described in the Chairmans Statement.
The Companys financial position, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in the financial statements and the Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and the risk of leverage by Underlying Funds are set out at note 15 to the financial statements.
The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that requires a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution in the circumstances explained on page 87.
As at 28 February 2015, for the purposes of the continuation votes the Sterling shares had traded at an average 4.37% discount to their net asset values and the US Dollar shares had traded at an average 4.39% discount to their net asset values, 35 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
