Primary Accounting Policies KEY ACCOUNTING POLICY AND KEY ACCOUNTING JUDGMENT AND AREA OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY for the year ended 31 December 2014 The Companys unquoted financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss are the most significant element of its Statement of Financial Position and the most significant contributor to its performance as set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Consequently, the Board of the Company wish to highlight here the Companys accounting policy for unquoted financial assets designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the accounting judgments and estimation uncertainties which apply to them.
ACCOUNTING POLICY FOR UNQUOTED FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED AS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS All investments are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are initially recognised on the date of purchase on 'trade date' basis at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, excluding transaction costs associated with the investment.
Investments are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments arising from change in the fair value from prior years is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Realised gains or losses on the disposal of investments are determined by reference to average purchase cost.
These are also recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In order to assess the fair value of the unquoted non-current and current investments, the NAV of the underlying investment in AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and the ICS Funds is taken into consideration.
The Company's holdings are realisable at their NAV on quarterly dealing days facilitated by the administrators of these funds.
Having taken account of the Company's history of successfully realising its holdings at NAV, and in the absence of gating or suspension of redemptions of these funds at the Company's year end, the Directors are satisfied that the reported NAV is a fair estimation of fair value of the Company's current holdings.
The Company's NAV is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
As described above, in calculating the NAV and the NAV per share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the NAVs of the shares supplied by the Administrator of AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS Funds.
Those NAVs are themselves based on the NAV of the various investments held by AllBlue, AllBlue Leveraged and ICS Funds.
50 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Primary Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES APPLICABLE TO UNQUOTED FINANCIAL ASSETS DESIGNATED AS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Valuation of non-current investments The Directors consider that the confirmed NAV of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged, as produced by the administrator of those funds, represents the fair value of the investments in the Company.
Fair value can be confirmed through redemptions, which can occur on a quarterly basis.
These can only be suspended at the discretion of the board of AllBlue or AllBlue Leveraged as appropriate.
To further satisfy themselves as to the fair value of the investments, the Directors attend site visits and scrutinise independent reports prepared by reputable Audit firms relating to the existence of assets in the underlying fund and their valuation as well as checks and procedures in place within the underlying funds and administrator of AllBlue.
Different assumptions regarding the valuation techniques of AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged could lead to different valuations of the investments produced by different parties.
