"Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2014 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRS"" as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law."
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
b Going concern As described in Note 11, should the average 12 month discount at which the shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per share, the Company is obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
The Directors believe that the Company has adequate financial resources and as a consequence the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existance for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses relating to the Company are allocated across the three share classes proportionally based on their individual net asset values.
e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits and short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
g Foreign currency translation The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency.
Operating expenses in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Investments in US Dollars and Euro share classes are initially recorded in their respective currencies and translated into the Company's functional currency at the reporting date.
All differences on these foreign currency translations are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
At the reporting date the results of the Share Classes are shown on the Statement of Comprehensive Income their respective currencies.
These are then converted using the average exchange rate for the year and the Sterling total presented.
Any exchange difference arising on the aggregation of share classes is presented on the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
