Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Glossary Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Glossary Anti-Money Laundering AML Money laundering is the process by which criminals attempt to conceal the true origin and ownership of the proceeds of criminal activities.
AML is a set of procedures, laws and regulations designed to stop this practice.
Advisory Managed Service Where the Investment Manager provides advice on both the structure and individual investments within the portfolio but clients make their own investment decisions.
This service is no longer offered to new clients except offshore clients via our Jersey office or Irish subsidiary Tilman Brewin Dolphin.
Audit and Assurance Faculty AAF This is a report by the Directors of Brewin Dolphin Limited on the internal controls of the custodial operations provided by its nominee companies which is made available to third parties.
Code Staff or Remuneration Code Staff A category of staff including senior management, risk takers, staff engaged in control functions and certain other employees whose professional activities have a material impact on the firms risk profile, in accordance with the FCA Remuneration Code.
Controlled Function 30 CF30 An FCA approved customer function dealing in, advising on or managing investments on behalf of clients.
Discretionary Investment Management Where a client outsources the day to day management of their portfolio to an Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will take care of everything associated with the running the client portfolio, including deciding the appropriate blend of assets, monitoring risk and dealing and administration.
Execution Only Where a client makes their own investment decisions and seeks no advice from the Company.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA The FCA is the body which regulates the financial services industry in the UK.
Financial Ombudsman Service FOS An independent service in the UK for settling disputes between businesses providing financial services and their customers.
Financial Planning FP FP is the process of assisting a client to meet their distinct set of financial goals and concerns, for example finding a tax-efficient way to invest a lump sum or setting up a retirement plan.
Funds under Management FuM The total assets where the day to day management is undertaken by Investment Managers within the Group.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP ICAAP is a process by which firms assess the level of capital that adequately supports all relevant current and future risks in their business.
Know Your Client KYC An understanding of the personal and financial circumstances of an individual client.
Retail Distribution Review RDR The RDR was set out with the aim to improve clarity for people who are looking to invest, raise the professional standards of advisers and reduce the conflict of interest which is found in remuneration for adviser services.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The Code sets out standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
Whistleblowing The process which sets out how employees can report suspicious wrongdoing at work.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127
